
[Maquis ship]
CHAKOTAY: Damage report.
TUVOK: Shields at sixty percent.
TORRES: A fuel line has ruptured. Attempting to compensate. Damn it! We're barely maintaining impulse. I can't get any more out of it.
CHAKOTAY: Be creative!
TORRES: How am I supposed to be creative with a thirty nine year old rebuilt engine?
GUL EVEK (screen): Maquis ship, this is Gul Evek of the Cardassian Fourth Order. Cut your engines and prepare to surrender or we will d
CHAKOTAY: Initiating evasive pattern omega. Mark.
TUVOK: Shields at fifty percent.
CHAKOTAY: I need more power if we're going to make it to the Badlands.
TORRES: Take the weapons offline. We'll transfer all power to the engines.
TUVOK: Considering the circumstances, I question that proposal at this time.
TORRES: What does it matter? We're not making a dent in their shields anyway! You wanted creative.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, shut down all the phaser banks. If you can give me another thirty seconds at full impulse, I'll get us into the Badlands.
TUVOK: Phasers offline.
CHAKOTAY: Throw the last photons at them and then give me the power from the torpedo system.
TUVOK: Acknowledged. Firing photons.
CHAKOTAY: Are you reading any plasma storms ahead?
TUVOK: One. Co-ordinates one seven one, mark four three.
CHAKOTAY: That's where I'm going.
TUVOK: Plasma storm density increasing by fourteen percent. Twenty. Twenty five.
CHAKOTAY: Hold on!
TUVOK: The Cardassian ship is not reducing power. They're following us in.
CHAKOTAY: Gul Evek must feel daring today.
TUVOK: They've taken a hit on their port blade. They're sending out a distress signal on all Cardassian frequencies.
CHAKOTAY: Can you plot a course through these plasma fields, Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: The storm's activity is typically widespread in this vicinity. I can plot a course, but I'm afraid it will require an indirect route.
CHAKOTAY: We can use a time to make some repairs. What was that?
TUVOK: Curious. We've just passed through some kind of coherent tetryon beam.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
TUVOK: Unknown. Now there appears to be a massive displacement wave moving toward us.
CHAKOTAY: Another storm?
TUVOK: It's not a plasma phenomenon. At current speeds, it will intercept us in less than thirty seconds.
CHAKOTAY: Anything left in those impulse generators, B'Elanna?
TORRES: We'll find out.
TUVOK: Still exceeding our speed.
CHAKOTAY: Maximum power.
TUVOK: Wave is continuing to accelerate. It will intercept us in eight seconds. Five.

[Federation Penal Settlement, New Zealand]
JANEWAY: Tom Paris? Kathryn Janeway. I served with your father on the Al-Batani. I wonder if we could go somewhere and talk.
PARIS: About what?
JANEWAY: About a job we'd like you to do for us.
PARIS: I'm already doing a job for the Federation.
JANEWAY: I've been told the Rehab Commission is very pleased with your work. They've given me their approval to discuss this matter with you.
PARIS: Well then, I guess I'm yours.
JANEWAY: Your father taught me a great deal. I was his science officer during the Orias expedition.
PARIS: You must be good. My father only accepts the best and the brightest.
JANEWAY: I'm leaving on a mission to find a Maquis ship that disappeared in the Badlands a week ago.
PARIS: I wouldn't if I were you.
JANEWAY: Really?
PARIS: I've never seen a Federation starship that could maneuver through the plasma storms.
JANEWAY: You've never seen Voyager. We'd like you to come along.
PARIS: You'd like me to lead you to my former colleagues. I was only with the Maquis a few weeks before I was captured, Captain. I don't know where most of their hiding places are.
JANEWAY: You know the territory better than anyone we've got.
PARIS: What's so important about this particular Maquis ship?
JANEWAY: My Chief of Security was on board, undercover. He was supposed to report in twice during the last six days. He didn't.
PARIS: Maybe it's just your Chief of Security who's disappeared.
JANEWAY: Maybe. That ship was under the command of another former Starfleet officer, named Chakotay. I understand you knew him.
PARIS: That's right.
JANEWAY: The two of you didn't get along too well, I'm told.
PARIS: Chakotay will tell you he left Starfleet on principle, to defend his home colony from the Cardassians. I, on the other hand, was forced to resign. He considered me a mercenary, willing to fight for anyone who'd pay my bar bill. Trouble is, he was right. I have no problem helping you track down my friends in the Maquis, Captain. All I need to know from you is what's in it for me.
JANEWAY: You help us find that ship, we help you at your next outmeet review.
PARIS: Ah ha.
JANEWAY: Officially, you'd be a Starfleet observer during the mission.
PARIS: Observer? Oh hell, I'm the best pilot you could have.
JANEWAY: You'll be an observer. When it's over, you're cut loose.
PARIS: The story of my life.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: Stadi, you're changing my mind about Betazoids.
STADI: Good.
PARIS: Oh, that wasn't a compliment. Until today I always considered your people warm and sensual.
STADI: I can be warm and sensual.
PARIS: Just not to me.
STADI: Do you always fly at women at warp speed, Mister Paris?
PARIS: Only when they're in visual range.
STADI: That's our ship. That's Voyager.
STADI: Intrepid class. Sustainable cruise velocity of warp factor nine point nine seven five. Fifteen decks. Crew complement of one hundred and forty one. Bio-neural circuitry.
PARIS: Bio-neural?
STADI: Some of the traditional circuitry has been replaced by gel packs that contain bio-neural cells. They organize information more efficiently, speed up response time.

[Quark's, Deep Space Nine]
QUARK: If I may say so, it's been my special pleasure to see many new officers like yourself come through these portals. Your parents must be very proud, my boy. You know, on an occasion like this
KIM: I'm really not interested.
QUARK: Interested?
KIM: You were about to try to sell me something, right?
QUARK: I was merely going to suggest that your parents might appreciate a memento of your first mission.
KIM: And you happen to have several to choose from?
QUARK: I do carry a select line of unique artifacts and gem stones indigenous to this region. Why, quite recently, I acquired these Lobi crystals from a very strange creature called a Morn.
KIM: We were warned about the Ferengi at the Academy.
QUARK: Warned about Ferengi, were you?
KIM: That's right.
QUARK: Slurs about my people at Starfleet Academy.
KIM: What I meant was
QUARK: Here I am, trying to be a cordial host, knowing how much a young officer's parents would appreciate a token of his love on the eve of a dangerous mission, and what do I get for my trouble? Scurrilous insults. Well, somebody's going to hear about this. What's your name, son?
KIM: My name?
QUARK: You have one, I presume?
KIM: Kim, Harry Kim. But I
QUARK: And who was it at the Academy who warned you about Ferengi?
KIM: You know, I think a memento for my parents would be a great idea.
QUARK: Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
KIM: Really. What are these? It would make a great pendant for my mother.
QUARK: Or cufflinks for your father.
KIM: Cufflinks. Great idea.
QUARK: They're not for sale. Now, inform your commanding officer that the Federation Council can expect an official query.
KIM: How much for the entire tray?
QUARK: Cash or credit?
PARIS: Dazzling, aren't they? As bright as a Koladan diamond.
QUARK: Brighter.
PARIS: Hard to believe you can find them on any planet in the system.
QUARK: That's an exaggeration.
PARIS: You know, there's a shop at the Volnar Colony that sells a dozen assorted shapes for one Cardassian lek. How much are you selling these for?
QUARK: We were just about to negotiate the price.
PARIS: Come on.
KIM: Thanks.
PARIS: Didn't they warn you about Ferengi at the Academy?

[Sickbay]
EMH: Run a level three diagnostic, just to be sure. Can I help you?
PARIS: Tom Paris, reporting on board.
EMH: Oh yes. The observer.
PARIS: That's me. As a matter of fact, I seem to be observing some kind of problem right now, Doctor.
EMH: I was a surgeon at the hospital on Caldic Prime at the same time you were stationed there. We never actually met. Your medical records have arrived from your last posting, Mister Paris. Everything seems to be in order. The Captain asked if you were on board. You should check in with her.
KIM: Er, I haven't paid my respects to the Captain yet either.
EMH: Well, Mister Kim, that would be a good thing for a new operations officer to do.

[Corridor]
KIM: What was that all about?
PARIS: It's a long story, Harry, and I'm tired of telling it. I'm sure someone around here will tell you before long.

[Ready room]
MARK (screen): The doctor called.
JANEWAY: And?
MARK (screen): And I was right.
JANEWAY: She's pregnant?
MARK (screen): The puppies are due in seven weeks.
JANEWAY: Oh, Mark. You've got to take her home with you.
MARK (screen): With me? I just got the rugs cleaned.
JANEWAY: She's with child. I can't leave her in a kennel while I'm
MARK (screen): Is this another 'love me, love my dog' demand?
JANEWAY: Yes.
MARK (screen): How could I ever refuse you?
JANEWAY: Thanks, honey.
MARK (screen): So, when are you leaving?
JANEWAY: As soon as I approve these systems status reports.
MARK (screen): All right. Then I won't bother you anymore.
JANEWAY: Hey. You never bother me, except the way I love to be bothered. Understand?
MARK (screen): I'll remember that.
JANEWAY: See you in a few weeks. Oh, Mark, go by my house and pick up the doggie bed. She'll be more comfortable.
MARK (screen): I already did, an hour ago.
JANEWAY: Come in.
JANEWAY: Gentlemen, welcome aboard Voyager.
KIM: Thank you, sir.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, at ease before you sprain something. Ensign, despite Starfleet protocol, I don't like being addressed as sir.
KIM: I'm sorry, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Ma'am is acceptable in a crunch, but I prefer Captain. We're getting ready to leave. Let me show you to the bridge.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Did you have any problems getting here, Mister Paris?
PARIS: None at all, Captain.
JANEWAY: My first officer, Lieutenant Commander Cavit. Ensign Kim, Mister Paris.
CAVIT: Welcome aboard.
JANEWAY: Ensign Kim, this is your station. Would you like to take over?
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: It's not crunch time yet, Mister Kim. I'll let you know when.
CAVIT: Lieutenant Stadi, lay in the course and clear our departure with operations.
STADI: Course entered, Ops has cleared us.
CAVIT: Ready thrusters.
KIM: Thrusters ready.
CAVIT: Initiate launching sequence.
STADI: Sequence underway.
JANEWAY: Engage.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: Tomato soup.
COMPUTER: There are fourteen varieties of tomato soup available from this replicator. With rice, with vegetables, Bolian style, with pasta, with
PARIS: Plain.
COMPUTER: Specify hot or chilled.
PARIS: Hot. Hot, plain, tomato soup.
PARIS: There, you see? I told you it wouldn't take long.
KIM: Is it true?
PARIS: Was the accident my fault? Yes. Pilot error. But it took me a while to admit it. Oh, fourteen varieties and they can't even get plain tomato soup right.
KIM: They said you falsified reports.
PARIS: That's right.
KIM: Why?
PARIS: What's the difference? I lied.
KIM: But then you came forward and you admitted that it was your fault?
PARIS: I'll tell you the truth, Harry. All I had to do was keep my mouth shut and I was home free. But I couldn't. The ghosts of those three dead officers came to me in the middle of the night and taught me the true meaning of Christmas. So I confessed. Worst mistake I ever made but not my last. After they cashiered me out of Starfleet, I went out looking for a fight and found the Maquis. And on my first assignment, I was caught.
KIM: It must have been especially tough for you, being the son of an admiral.
PARIS: Frankly, I think it was tougher on my father than it was on me. Look, I know those guys told you to stay away from me. And you know what? You ought to listen to them. I'm not exactly a good luck charm.
KIM: I don't need anyone to choose my friends for me.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Paris.
PARIS: Go ahead.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Report to the Bridge. We're approaching the Badlands.

[Bridge]
ROLLINS: Plasma storms were measured at levels three and four.
JANEWAY: The Cardassians gave us the last known heading of the Maquis ship, and we have charts of the plasma storm activity the day it disappeared. With a little help, we might be able to approximate its course.
PARIS: I'd guess they were trying to get to one of the M-class planetoids in the Terikof Belt.
CAVIT: That's beyond the Moriya system.
ROLLINS: The plasma storms would have forced them in this direction.
JANEWAY: Adjust our course to match.
CAVIT: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: The Cardassians claimed they forced the Maquis ship into a plasma storm where it was destroyed, but our probes haven't picked up any debris.
PARIS: A plasma storm might not leave any debris.
JANEWAY: We'd still be able to pick up a resonance trace from the warp core.
KIM: Captain, I'm reading a coherent tetryon beam scanning us.
JANEWAY: Origin, Mister Kim.
KIM: I'm not sure. There's also a displacement wave moving toward us.
JANEWAY: On screen.
JANEWAY: Analysis.
KIM: It's some kind of polarized magnetic variation.
CAVIT: We might be able to disperse it with a graviton particle field.
JANEWAY: Do it. Red alert. Move us away from it, Lieutenant.
STADI: New heading, four one mark one eight zero.
CAVIT: Initiating graviton field.
KIM: The graviton field had no effect.
JANEWAY: Full impulse.
KIM: The wave will intercept us in twelve seconds.
JANEWAY: Can we go to warp?
STADI: Not until we clear the plasma field, Captain.
KIM: Five seconds.
JANEWAY: Brace for impact.
KIM: Three.
JANEWAY: Report!
KIM: Hull breach, deck fourteen. Comm. lines to Engineering are down. Trying to re-establish.
JANEWAY: Repair crews, seal off hull breach on deck fourteen.
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
ROLLINS: Casualty reports coming in. Sickbay is not responding.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay. Doctor, can you hear me? Paris, how's Stadi?
PARIS: She's dead.
KIM: Captain, there's something out there.
JANEWAY: I need a better description than that, Mister Kim.
KIM: I don't know. I'm reading. I'm not sure what I'm reading.
JANEWAY: Can you get the viewscreen operational?
KIM: I'm trying.
KIM: Captain, if these sensors are working, we're over seventy thousand light years from where we were. We're on the other side of the galaxy.
KIM: I'm not reading any life signs on the Maquis ship.
JANEWAY: What about on that, that array?
KIM: Our sensors can't penetrate it.
JANEWAY: Any idea what those pulses are that are coming from it, Mister Kim?
KIM: Massive bursts of radiant energy. They seem to be directed toward a nearby G-type star system.
JANEWAY: Try hailing the array.
CAREY (voiceover): Engineering to Bridge. We have some severe damage. The Chief's dead. Possibility of a warp core breach.
JANEWAY: Secure all engineering systems. I'm on my way.
KIM: No response from the array.
JANEWAY: Ensign, get down to Sickbay. See what's going on. Mister Rollins, the Bridge is yours.
ROLLINS: Aye, Captain.
PARIS: Harry, wait for me.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: They must have been right next to the console when it exploded.

[Engineering]
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core microfracture. Breach imminent.
JANEWAY: What's the warp core pressure?
CAREY: Twenty one hundred kilopascals.
JANEWAY: Lock down the magnetic constrictors.
CAREY: If we lock them down at these pressure levels, we might not be able to reinitialize the dilithium reaction.
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core microfracture. Breach imminent.
JANEWAY: We don't have a choice. We've got to get the reaction rate down before we try to seal it.

[Sickbay]
KIM: Computer, initiate Emergency Medical Holographic program.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
KIM: Multiple percussive injuries.
EMH: Status of your doctor?
KIM: He's dead.
EMH: Point four cc's of trianoline.
KIM: Trianoline?
PARIS: We lost our nurse too.
EMH: How soon are replacement medical personnel expected?
KIM: That could be a problem. We're pretty far away from replacements right now.
EMH: Tricorder. Medical tricorder. A replacement must be requested as soon as possible. I am programmed only as a short-term emergency supplement to the medical team.
PARIS: Well, we may be stuck with you for a while, Doc.
EMH: There's no need for concern. I am capable of treating any injury or disease. No concussion. You'll be fine. Clean him up.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Unlock the magnetic constrictors.
CAREY: Constrictors online.
JANEWAY: Pressure?
CAREY: It's working. Twenty five hundred kilopascals and holding.
ROLLINS (voiceover): Bridge to Janeway. We're being scanned by the array, Captain. It's penetrated our shields.
JANEWAY: What kind of scan? Bridge? Janeway to Bridge, respond.
JANEWAY: Initiate emergency lock-off.

[Sickbay]
EMH: You're not seriously hurt. You can return to your station.
EMH: This is the Emergency Holographic Doctor speaking. I gave no permission for anyone to be transported out of Sickbay. Hello? Sickbay to Bridge. I believe someone has failed to terminate my program. Please respond.

[Farm]
AUNT ADAH: Come up here. Come on, now. I have a pitcher of lemonade and some sugar cookies.
PARIS: Captain?
JANEWAY: Don't believe your eyes, Mister Paris. We've only transported a hundred kilometers. We're inside the array.
KIM: There's no indication of stable matter. All this must be some kind of holographic projection.
AUNT ADAH: Oh, you poor things. You must be tired out. Come on and sit down and rest awhile. Have a cold drink, hmm?
JANEWAY: No, thank you. My name is Kathryn Janeway, captain of the Federation Starship Voyager.
AUNT ADAH: Now, just make yourselves right at home. The neighbors should be here any minute. Oh! Why, here they are!
CARETAKER: Well, good to see you. Welcome.
DAUGHTER: We're real glad you dropped by.
AUNT ADAH: Now we can get started. You're all invited to the welcoming bee!
CARETAKER: Let's have some music!
PARIS: The crew's scattered around this farm, Captain, but they're all accounted for.
JANEWAY: Move around. Scan the area. See if you can find anything that might be a holographic generator.
AUNT ADAH: Have some nice fresh corn on the cob. Fresh corn on the cob. Corn on the cob. Corn on the cob.
JANEWAY: Can you tell me why we're here?
AUNT ADAH: Oh, we don't mean you any harm. I'm sorry if we put you out. Why don't you just put your feet up and get comfortable while you wait?
JANEWAY: Wait for what?
AUNT ADAH: Isn't anybody hungry? Come on now, make yourselves at home. I'm sorry if we put you out.
DAUGHTER: Hey, let me show you around. The root cellar's right over there.
KIM: What's down there?
DAUGHTER: Potatoes, onions. But it's real private.
KIM: Paris, she's only a hologram.
PARIS: No reason to be rude.
KIM: Whoa.
PARIS: What?
KIM: Sporocystian life signs. What's in the barn?
DAUGHTER: Oh, nothing but a big old pile of hay. Hey, come on, let's go see the duck pond. There's nothing in there. It's just a dark, smelly barn. Hey, do y'all want some devilled eggs? Huh?

[Barn]
DAUGHTER: See? Nothing but hay.
KIM: There is a life form here. Just one.
PARIS: Where?
KIM: It's everywhere. I'm also reading some kind of matrix-processing device. It may be the holographic generator. Paris, humanoid life signs over here. I'm reading a Vulcan and several humans.
DAUGHTER: I'm not ready for you yet!
PARIS: Paris to Janeway.

[Farm]
JANEWAY: Janeway here. Paris? Come on!

[Barn]
AUNT ADAH: Very well. Since no one seems to care for any corn, we'll have to proceed ahead of schedule. (The barn wall disappears to reveal a high-tech room that goes on into the distance. Chakotay, B'Elanna and Tuvok are lying on narrow ledges with a long needles sticking into their abdomens. Just as the farmers and Voyager crew vanish we see that all the Maquis are there. The next shot is of Janeway having her stomach skewered and her passing out. Paris is next to her and across the aisle Kim screams.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Janeway to Bridge. Anybody there?
ROLLINS (voiceover): Yes, Captain. We're here.
JANEWAY: How long were we over there?

[Bridge]
ROLLINS: Almost three days.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Three days?
ROLLINS: Captain, the Maquis ship is powering up its engines.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Tractor them. All senior officers, report

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY (voiceover): To the Bridge immediately.
EMH: Excuse me. Could you explain what has transpired?
PARIS: Computer, locate Ensign Kim.
COMPUTER: Ensign Kim is not on board.
PARIS: Paris to Janeway.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): Kim didn't come back with us. He must still be over there.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Computer, how many crewmen are unaccounted for?
COMPUTER: One. Ensign Harry Kim.
JANEWAY: Hail the Maquis. Commander Chakotay. My name is Captain Kathryn Janeway.
CHAKOTAY (screen): How do you know my name?
JANEWAY: We were on a mission to find you when we were brought here by the array. One of our crewman is missing. Was he transported back to your ship by accident?
CHAKOTAY (screen): No. A member of our crew is missing too. B'Elanna Torres, my engineer.
JANEWAY: Commander, you and I have the same problem. I think it makes sense to try and solve it together, don't you?
CHAKOTAY (screen): Three of us will transport to your ship.
ROLLINS: They're powering down their engines, dropping their shields.
ROLLINS: Watch out, Captain. They're armed.
JANEWAY: Put down your weapons. You won't need those here. It's good to have you back, Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: I must inform you that I was assigned to infiltrate your crew, sir. I am Captain Janeway's Chief of Security.
CHAKOTAY: Were you going to deliver us into their waiting hands, Vulcan?
TUVOK: My mission was to accumulate information on Maquis activities, and then deliver you into their waiting hands. That is correct.
CHAKOTAY: I see you had help.
PARIS: It's good to see you too, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: At least the Vulcan was doing his duty as a Starfleet officer. But you, you betrayed us for what? Freedom from prison? Latinum? What was your price this time?
JANEWAY: You are speaking to a member of my crew. I expect you to treat him with the same respect as you would have me treat a member of yours. Now, we have a lot to accomplish, and I suggest we all concentrate on finding our people and getting ourselves back home.
TUVOK: Based on my initial reconnaissance, Captain, I am convinced we are dealing with a single entity in the array. I would suggest he scanned our computers in order to select a comfortable holographic environment. In effect, a waiting room to pacify us prior to biometric assessment.
PARIS: An examination?
TUVOK: It is the most logical explanation. Why else would he have released us unharmed?
PARIS: Not all of us were.
JANEWAY: Break out the compression phaser rifles. Meet us in Transporter Room two. We're going back. We'll divide into teams. Mister Tuvok, while Chakotay and I are looking for Torres and Kim, your job is to find out as much about this array as you can. It brought us here. We have to assume it can send us home. Agreed? Mister Rollins, maintain Red alert. Keep us on constant transporter locks.
PARIS: Captain. I'd like to go with you.
JANEWAY: If this has something to do with what Chakotay said.
PARIS: It doesn't. I'd just, I'd hate to see anything happen to Harry.
JANEWAY: Come on.

[Farm]
TUVOK: There are no humanoid lifeforms indicated, Captain. Kim and Torres are not within tricorder range. They may not be on the array.
CHAKOTAY: He can tell us where they are.
JANEWAY: Maintain your comm. link. I don't want to lose anyone else.
CARETAKER: Oh, why have you come back? You don't have what I need.
JANEWAY: I don't know what you need and frankly I don't care. I just want our people back and I want us all to be sent home.
CARETAKER: Oh, well now. Aren't you contentious for a minor bipedal species?
JANEWAY: This minor bipedal species doesn't take kindly to being abducted.
CARETAKER: Oh, it was necessary.
CHAKOTAY: Where are our people?
CARETAKER: They are no longer here.
JANEWAY: What have you done to them?
CARETAKER: You don't have what I need. They might. No, you'll have to leave them.
CHAKOTAY: We won't do that.
JANEWAY: We are their commanding officers. We are entrusted with their safety. They are our responsibility. That may be a concept you don't understand.
CARETAKER: Oh, no, I do understand, but I have no choice. There just is not enough time left.
JANEWAY: Left for what?
CARETAKER: I must honor a debt that can never be repaid, but my search has not been going well.
JANEWAY: Tell us what you're looking for. Maybe we can help you find it.
CARETAKER: You? I've searched the galaxy with methods beyond your comprehension. No, there's nothing you can do.
JANEWAY: You've taken us seventy thousand light years from our home. We have no way back unless you send us, and we won't leave without the others.
CARETAKER: But sending you back is terribly complicated. Don't you understand? I don't have time. Not enough time!

[Ocampa hospital]
NURSE (voiceover): He's regaining consciousness.
OCAMPA DOCTOR (voiceover): How do you feel?
KIM: What am I doing here? Where am I?
NURSE: Please don't try to move yet. You are very ill.
KIM: Ill? No, no. There's some mistake. I'm not
TORRES: No!
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48315.6. We've traced the energy pulses from the array to the fifth planet of the neighboring system and believe they may have been used in some fashion to transport Kim and Torres to the planet's surface.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
TUVOK: Captain, I've observed something peculiar about the pulses. They're getting faster.
JANEWAY: Faster.
TUVOK: The interval between each pulse has decreased by point four seven seconds since we arrived. I can offer no explanation.
JANEWAY: That's only one of the mysteries we're dealing with, Mister Tuvok. Take a look at this.
JANEWAY: It's virtually a desert. Not one ocean, not one river. It has all the basic characteristics of an M-class planet except there are no nucleogenic particles in the atmosphere.
TUVOK: That would mean the planet is incapable of producing rain.
JANEWAY: I've studied thousands of M-class planets. I've never seen an atmosphere without nucleogenics. There must have been some kind of extraordinary environmental disaster. As soon as repairs are complete, we'll set a course for the fifth planet.
TUVOK: Captain, you require sleep.
JANEWAY: Kim's mother called me just after he left her. Delightful woman. He's her only son. He'd left his clarinet behind. She wanted to know if she had time to send it. I had to tell her no. Did you know he played clarinet in the Julliard Youth Symphony?
TUVOK: I did not have the opportunity to meet Mister Kim.
JANEWAY: I barely knew him. I never seem to have the chance to get to know any of them. I have to, I have to take more time to do that. It's a fine crew and I've got to get them home.
TUVOK: The crew will not benefit from the leadership of an exhausted captain.
JANEWAY: You're right as usual. I've missed your counsel, Tuvok.
TUVOK: I am gratified that you came after me so I can offer it once again.
JANEWAY: I spoke to your family before I left.
TUVOK: Are they well?
JANEWAY: Well, but worried about you.
TUVOK: That would not be an accurate perception, Captain. Vulcans do not worry.
JANEWAY: They miss you.
TUVOK: As I do them.
JANEWAY: I'll get you back to them. That's a promise, Tuvok.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The Maquis ship and Voyager have encountered a debris field where sensors have detected a small vessel. One humanoid life form is on board.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Hail them.
NEELIX (screen): Whoever you are, I found this waste zone first.
JANEWAY: We're not interested in this debris, Mister
NEELIX (screen): Neelix. And since you're not interested in my debris, well, I'm delighted to know you.
JANEWAY: Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager.
NEELIX (screen): A very impressive title. I have no idea what it means, but it sounds very impressive.
JANEWAY: Do you know this area of space well, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX (screen): I am famous for knowing it well. How may I be of service?
JANEWAY: Do you know anything about the array that's sending energy pulses to the fifth planet?
NEELIX (screen): I know enough to stay as far away from it as possible. Wait. Let me guess. You were whisked away from somewhere else in the galaxy, and brought here against your will.
JANEWAY: Sounds as though you've heard this story before.
NEELIX (screen): Sadly, yes. Thousands of times. Well, hundreds of times. Maybe fifty times. But the Caretaker has been bringing ships here for months now.
JANEWAY: The Caretaker?
NEELIX (screen): That's what the Ocampa call him. They live on the fifth planet. Did he kidnap members of your crew?
JANEWAY: As a matter of fact, he did.
NEELIX (screen): It's not the first time.
JANEWAY: Do you know where he might have taken them?
NEELIX (screen): Just that they're brought to the Ocampa. Nothing more.
JANEWAY: We'd appreciate any help you could give us in finding these Ocampa.
NEELIX (screen): I really wish that I could help you, I do, but as you can see, there's just there's so much debris for me to investigate today. You'd be surprised the things of value some people abandon.
JANEWAY: Of course, we'd want to compensate you for your trouble.
NEELIX (screen): Well, there's really very little that you could offer me. Unless.
JANEWAY: Yes?
NEELIX (screen): Unless of course, you had water.
JANEWAY: If you help us find our missing crew members, you can have all the water you want.
NEELIX (screen): That sounds like a very reasonable arrangement.
JANEWAY: Good. We'll beam you over and tow your ship into our shuttle bay. Mister Tuvok, go to Transporter Room two and meet our guest.
NEELIX (screen): Beam?
JANEWAY: We have a technology which can take you instantly from your ship to ours. It's quite harmless. May we?

[Transporter room]
TUVOK: Energize.
NEELIX: Astonishing! You Federations are obviously an advanced culture.
TUVOK: The Federation is made up of many cultures. I am Vulcan.
NEELIX: Neelix. Good to meet you!
NEELIX: Interesting. What, what exactly, what exactly does all this, all this do?
TUVOK: I assure you that everything in this room has a specific function. However, it would take several hours to explain it all. I suggest we proceed to your quarters. Perhaps you would care for a bath.
NEELIX: A what?

[Ocampa hospital]
KIM: It's okay. It's okay.
TORRES: Who are you?
KIM: My name is Kim. Harry Kim. I'm an ensign on the Starship Voyager. I was kidnapped from the array just like you were. I don't know where we are.
TORRES: What was Starfleet doing at that array?
KIM: We were looking for you, actually. One minute we're in the Badlands, the next
TORRES: You mean you were trying to capture us.
KIM: Yeah. Consider yourself captured. Oh, I know I have a phaser here somewhere.
TORRES: I don't find this at all amusing, Starfleet.
KIM: There's no point. It's locked. Hey! Hey, hey, hey. What's that going to accomplish?
TORRES: What are they doing to us? What are these things growing on us?
KIM: Look, do you want them to sedate you again?
TORRES: You're right, Starfleet. It's the Klingon half of me. It's just it's hard to control it sometimes.
KIM: What's your name, Maquis?
TORRES: B'Elanna. B'Elanna Torres.
OCAMPA DOCTOR: I hope you're feeling better. I know how frightening all this must be for both of you. I've brought some clothes if you'd care to change.
TORRES: Why are you holding us here?
OCAMPA DOCTOR: You are not prisoners. In fact, we consider you honored guests. The Caretaker has sent you to us. As long as you are not violent, you are free to leave your quarters.
KIM: What's wrong with us? What are these things?
OCAMPA DOCTOR: We really don't know. You must be hungry. Would you care to join me on the courtyard for a meal?

[Ocampa settlement]
OCAMPA DOCTOR: Our food dispensers are right this way.
KIM: We're underground.
OCAMPA DOCTOR: Our society is subterranean. We've lived here for over five hundred generations.
TORRES: But before that, you lived on the surface?
OCAMPA DOCTOR: Until the Warming began.
KIM: The Warming?
OCAMPA DOCTOR: When our surface turned into a desert and the Caretaker came to protect us. Our ancient journals tell us he opened a deep chasm in the ground and led our ancestors to this place. Since then he has provided for all our needs. Please forgive them. They know you've come from the Caretaker. None of us has ever seen him. This way, please.
TORRES: Does the Caretaker provide your meals too?
OCAMPA DOCTOR: In fact, he does. He designed and built this entire city for us after the Warming. The food processors dispense nutritional supplements every four point one intervals. It may not offer the exotic tastes some of our younger people crave these days, but it meets our needs.
KIM: Is this how the Caretaker communicates with you? (The eating area has large picture windows showing different scenes - sunset, clouds, waterfall.)
OCAMPA DOCTOR: He never communicates directly. We try to interpret his wishes as best we can.
KIM: I'm curious to know how you've interpreted the Caretaker's reason for sending us here.
OCAMPA DOCTOR: We believe he must have separated you from your own species for their protection.
TORRES: Their protection?
OCAMPA DOCTOR: From your illness. Perhaps he's trying to prevent a plague.
TORRES: We weren't sick until we met your Caretaker.
OCAMPA DOCTOR: From time to time, he asks us to care for people with this disease. It's the least we can do.
TORRES: There have been others? Like us?
OCAMPA DOCTOR: Yes.
TORRES: Where are they?
OCAMPA DOCTOR: Your condition is serious. We don't know exactly how to treat it. I'm afraid the others did not recover.

[Neelix's quarters]
TUVOK: Sir.
NEELIX: Ah, Mister Vulcan. Come in, come in, please. I can hardly see you.
NEELIX: I want to thank you for your hospitality. I must admit, I haven't had access to a food rebel er, er, replicator before.
TUVOK: I'd never have guessed.
NEELIX: And to immerse myself in water. Oh, do you know what joy this is? No one around here wastes water in this manner. Good sand scrub, that's the best that we can hope for.
TUVOK: I am pleased you are enjoying yourself, but we are in orbit of the fifth planet. We need your assistance.
NEELIX: Oh! Could you hand me the, er, towel?
NEELIX: If you will scan the large southern continent you'll find a range of extinct volcanoes. Follow the foothills north until you discover a dry riverbed. You'll find an encampment there.
TUVOK: Do you believe our people might be at this location?
NEELIX: It's not impossible. Maybe. Perhaps not. But we'll find them. We'll need several containers of water to bring for barter. Do these, er, replicators make clothing as well?
TUVOK: Yes.
NEELIX: Will it make me a uniform like yours?
TUVOK: No, it most certainly will not.

[Kazon settlement]
PARIS: Why would anyone want to live in a place like this?
NEELIX: The rich cormaline deposits are very much in demand.
CHAKOTAY: The Ocampa use it for barter?
NEELIX: Not the Ocampa, the Kazon-Ogla.
JANEWAY: The Kazon-Ogla? Who are the Kazon-Ogla?
NEELIX: They are. Kazon sects control this part of the quadrant. Some have food, some have ore, some have water. They all trade and they all kill each other for it.
JANEWAY: I thought you said the Ocampa had our people.
NEELIX: My friends, it's good to see you again!
NEELIX: I must speak with your Maje, the ever-wise Jabin!
NEELIX: Very amusing.
KAZON: Destroy him.
NEELIX: Very amusing. I, I enjoy a joke as much as the next man. Jabin! My old friend! Water. Water, Jabin. I have water to replace all that I borrowed. Show them, Mister Paris. Their ship has technology that makes water out of thin air!
JABIN: You have more?
JANEWAY: Janeway to Voyager. Energize.
JANEWAY: There's more where that came from, if you can help us.
JABIN: How can we help someone so powerful they can create water out of thin air?
JANEWAY: This man led us here suggesting we might find a people called the Ocampa. Do you know where they are?
JABIN: Ocampa. She is Ocampa.
JABIN: Why would you be interested in such worthless creatures? They live only nine years. They make poor servants. We caught her when she wandered to the surface.
JANEWAY: To the surface? You mean they live underground?
JABIN: The entity in space that gives them food and power also gives them sole access to the only water on this world, two miles below the surface.
JANEWAY: This same entity has abducted two of our people. We believe they might be with the Ocampa.
JABIN: There's no way to get to them. We tried. The entity has established some kind of subterranean barrier we can not penetrate.
CHAKOTAY: But she got out.
JABIN: Occasionally, some of them do find their way to the surface. We don't know how, but the Ocampa seal the tunnels afterwards.
NEELIX: Maybe she can help these good people find a way down.
JABIN: You'd be wasting your time. I've used every method of persuasion I know to get her to help us. She won't.
NEELIX: Then she's worthless to you. Let us trade you water for this scrawny little thing.
JABIN: I'd be more interested in acquiring this technology that allows you to create water from thin air.
JANEWAY: That would be difficult. It's integrated into our ship's systems.
NEELIX: Tell them to drop their weapons. Drop them, my friends, or he dies in an instant.
JABIN: Do it. Do it!
NEELIX: Step aside.
NEELIX: Come on!
NEELIX: I strongly suggest you get us out of here.
JANEWAY: Six to beam up.

[Transporter room]
NEELIX: My dearest. Didn't I promise I'd save you?

[Ocampa settlement]
KIM: Look, I'm sure Captain Janeway is doing everything she can to find us.
TORRES: What makes you think any of them are still alive?
KIM: Should I call for some help?
TORRES: No.
NURSE: Are you in pain?
TORRES: Are you watching us? I thought we weren't supposed to be your prisoners.
NURSE: I wasn't watching you. I was coming to give you something. I don't know if it'll help. It's a medicine. There are people who have broken from tradition and left the city. Their colony grows fruits and vegetables. They discovered quite by accident that the moss that grows on certain fruit trees has healing properties. I'm sorry for what has happened to you.
KIM: Appreciate this, but the only way we're going to survive is if we can get to the surface and find our own people.
NURSE: The elders would say that's against the Caretaker's wishes.
TORRES: What do you say?
NURSE: The Caretaker's been behaving strangely for the past several months. Abducting people, increasing the power supply.
KIM: Power supply.
NURSE: He's tripled the energy he sends us. They say we have enough stored now to run the city for five years.
KIM: Nobody knows why?
NURSE: When we ask, we're told to trust the Caretaker's decisions. One person I knew did get to the surface. We never saw her again.
KIM: How?
NURSE: The ancient tunnels that brought us here still exist. Over the years, small breaches in security barriers have appeared just large enough for someone to get through. But it still requires digging through meters of rock to get out.
TORRES: Can you get us tools to dig with?
NURSE: It would take days, maybe even weeks to break through. You have to rest. Conserve your strength.
KIM: Please. It's our only chance.

[Sickbay]
TUVOK: If you had told us what you had planned, we might have anticipated your irrational behavior.
NEELIX: Irrational? We got out of there, didn't we?
KES: Excuse me. Don't blame Neelix.
EMH: That's enough. This is a sickbay, not a conference room. Visiting hours are over. Everyone except my patient is to leave immediately.
JANEWAY: Computer, end Medical Holographic Program.
KES: I never should have gone to the surface. I'm too curious. I'm told it's my worst failing.
NEELIX: No, no, it's a wonderful quality. Your most endearing.
JANEWAY: Would you be willing to take us underground to look for our missing crew?
KES: I'm afraid Jabin was right. There's no way to get down. The tunnel I came out has been sealed.
JANEWAY: We don't need a tunnel. We have the ability to transport there directly.
TUVOK: Captain, our sensors did not pick up any indication of an underground civilization. The subterranean barrier Jabin described may be responsible. It might also block our transporter.
KES: There are breaches in the security barrier where it's begun to decay. That's how I got out.
JANEWAY: Have the transporter room begin a sweep for any breaches we might be able to beam through.
NEELIX: Kes can tell you where to go. But now that she's free, we're leaving this system together.
KES: Neelix, these people rescued me.
NEELIX: I rescued you.
KES: With their help. It would be wrong not to help them now.

[Ocampa settlement - Garden]
TUVOK: Captain, the pulses from the array continue to accelerate. The intervals between them have decreased another point eight seconds.
DAGGIN: Kes.
KES: Hello, Daggin.
DAGGIN: We thought we'd never see you again. How did you get back?
KES: These people rescued me from the Kazon. I'm trying to help them find two of their crewmen. Does anyone know where the aliens are kept? The ones the Caretaker sends here?
DAGGIN: I think they're at the central clinic.
JANEWAY: Can you take us there?
TOSCAT (voiceover): No, she cannot.
KES: They can't speak telepathically, Toscat. Please talk aloud.
TOSCAT: I didn't meant to be rude but you should not be here.
JANEWAY: We'll be glad to leave once we find our crewmen.
TOSCAT: That won't be possible. We cannot interfere with the Caretaker's wishes.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you can't, but we can.
TOSCAT: You don't understand.
KES: That's right. They don't understand. They have no way of knowing that the Ocampa have been dependent on the Caretaker for so long, we can't even think for ourselves any more. They don't understand we were once a people who had full command of our mind's abilities.
TOSCAT: The stories of our ancestor's cognitive abilities are apocryphal. At the very least exaggerated.
KES: We lost those abilities because we stopped using them.
TOSCAT: We should not dwell on what's been lost but on all that's been gained.
KES: We've gained a talent for dependence, for simply taking what we're given. I'm going to help them, Toscat, whether you like it or not, and I think my friends will join me.
TOSCAT: You defied the Caretaker by going to the surface, Kes. Learn from the experience. Follow the path he has set for us.
KES: I've learned very well, Toscat. I saw the sunlight. I can't believe that our Caretaker would forbid us to open our eyes and see the sky. Come with me. We'll find your people.

[Shaft]
TORRES: Come on. Don't let it beat you, Starfleet. Come on.
KIM: I'm sorry.
TORRES: All right. It's all right. We'll rest a minute.
KIM: Maybe I'd do better if I had a little Klingon blood in me.
TORRES: Trust me, it's more trouble than it's worth.
KIM: You know, I spent my whole life getting ready for Starfleet. And on my very first mission, I'm going to die.
TORRES: We're not finished yet. I know a few things that old Sneezy didn't teach in his survival course.
KIM: Sneezy?
TORRES: Commander Zakarian, remember? He must have been allergic to everything.
KIM: You went to the Academy.
TORRES: Actually made it into the second year before we, er, we mutually agreed that it wasn't the place for me.
KIM: You know, I never really liked Zakarian.
TORRES: Shush. Listen. They're getting faster.

[Ocampa settlement]
JANEWAY: Away team to Voyager.
ROLLINS (voiceover): Voyager here.
JANEWAY: What's going on with the array?

[Bridge]
ROLLINS: It's no longer sending out pulses, Captain, and it appears to be realigning its position.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Keep me informed. Janeway out.

[Ocampa settlement]
KES: They haven't been at the clinic for hours.
DAGGIN: We can search the city. Ask if anyone's seen them.
JANEWAY: If they were trying to get to the surface, how would they go?
KES: Probably the same way I did. Up one of the ancient tunnels.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, you and Neelix go with her and start checking them out. We need to talk to every doctor and nurse at this hospital, see what they can tell about Torres and Kim.
ROLLINS (voiceover): Voyager to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.

[Bridge]
ROLLINS: Captain, the array is firing some kind of weapon at the surface. It seems to be trying to seal the energy conduits.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Understood. Keep a channel open.

[Ocampa settlement]
CHAKOTAY: If the array is the Ocampa's sole source of energy, why would the Caretaker seal the conduits?
TUVOK: He would seal them if he no longer intended to use them, to protect the Ocampa from their enemies. Captain, there is now enough evidence to form a reasonable hypothesis. I believe that the Caretaker is dying.
JANEWAY: Explain.
TUVOK: First, he increases the energy supply to provide the city with a surplus to last at least five years. Then he seals the conduits. The logical conclusion is that he does not intend to continue his role as Caretaker.
CHAKOTAY: That doesn't necessarily mean he's dying. He could be leaving.
TUVOK: Doubtful. Not after a millennium of providing for these people. I believe that the Caretaker owes something to the Ocampa. I believe the debt that can never repaid is very likely a debt to them. In addition, there were his frequent references to running out of time. I think he knew his death was imminent.
JANEWAY: If he dies, how the hell are we supposed to get home?

[Shaft]
PARIS: They're in this one. Harry! Paris to Janeway.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
PARIS: They're in one of the tunnels, Captain. I can't see them, but they're up there. We're going after them.

[Ocampa settlement]
JANEWAY: Call for transport when you have them, Paris. We'll meet you on the ship. Janeway to Voyager.
ROLLINS (voiceover): Voyager here.
JANEWAY: Three to beam up.
ROLLINS (voiceover): Stand by.

[Bridge]
ROLLINS: Captain, I can't get a lock on you.

[Ocampa settlement]
ROLLINS (voiceover): The weapons fire from the array has irradiated the planet's crust.

[Bridge]
ROLLINS: The transport sensors can't find the breaches in the security barrier.

[Ocampa settlement]
JANEWAY: Come on. There's only one other way out of here.

[Shaft]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Paris.
PARIS: Go ahead.
JANEWAY (voiceover): The transporters aren't working. You're going to have to find a breach in the security barrier when you get to the top.
PARIS: Understood.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We're a few minutes behind you. Janeway out.
PARIS: I see them.
KIM: Took you long enough.
PARIS: How could I let down the only friend I've got?
KIM: Friend? What makes you think I'm your friend?
PARIS: Paris to Janeway.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
PARIS: We found them, Captain.
JANEWAY: Don't wait for us. Get them to safety.
KES: Don't worry. I know we can get through the barrier.

[Tunnel]
KES: Whatever you do, don't touch it. We've been told it'll burn your skin off.

[Shaft]
JANEWAY: They're not far ahead of us. Keep going.

[Tunnel]
PARIS: I think we've reached the top. Neelix, get out your phaser.

[Planet surface]
PARIS: Voyager, can you get a lock on us now?
ROLLINS (voiceover): Affirmative. But I'm reading only five signals.
PARIS: The others are. Get down!
PARIS: Paris to Janeway. Chakotay, Tuvok, do you read? Voyager, prepare to transport everyone in this group except me.
ROLLINS (voiceover): Aye, sir.
NEELIX: You're not thinking of going back there? Well, if a fool needs company. Take care of them, dearest. I'll see you later.
PARIS: Voyager, make that three to beam up. Lock in on the other comm. badge and energize.

[Shaft]
CHAKOTAY: My leg is broken. I can't move.
JANEWAY: Hold on.
NEELIX: There they are.
JANEWAY: Neelix, help me with Tuvok.
PARIS: I'll get Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Get out of here, Paris, before the whole thing comes down!
PARIS: I intend to, as soon as I get you up.
CHAKOTAY: You get on those stairs, they'll collapse! We'll both die!
PARIS: Yeah? But on the other hand, if I save your butt your life belongs to me. Isn't that some kind of Indian custom?
CHAKOTAY: Wrong tribe.
PARIS: I don't believe you.
PARIS: You'd rather die than let me be the one to rescue you?
CHAKOTAY: Fine. Be a fool. If I have to die, at least I'll have the pleasure of watching you go with me.
PARIS: Isn't there some Indian trick where you can turn yourself into a bird and fly us out of here?
CHAKOTAY: You're too heavy.

[Sickbay]
ROLLINS (voiceover): Bridge to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
ROLLINS (voiceover): Captain, two Kazon ships are approaching the Array.
JANEWAY: Set a course. I'm on my way.
CHAKOTAY: We've got to get back to our ship.
EMH: I strongly advise you to rest. I will not be held responsible for the consequences. Is the crew always this difficult?
KIM: I don't know, Doc. It's my first mission.
EMH: Doesn't anyone know how to turn off the program when they leave?

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Bring the weapons systems online.
TUVOK: Powering up phase banks and photon systems.
JANEWAY: Red alert.
TUVOK: The lead Kazon ship is hailing us, Captain.
JANEWAY: On screen.
JABIN (screen): Have you come to investigate the entity's strange behavior too, Captain?
JANEWAY: All we care about is getting home, Jabin. We're about to transport over to the Array to see if we can arrange it.
JABIN (screen): I'm afraid I can not permit that.
JANEWAY: We have no dispute with you.
JABIN (screen): I have a dispute with anyone who would challenge us.
JANEWAY: This is ridiculous. We have no intention of challenging you.
JABIN (screen): And I have no intention of letting anyone with your technological knowledge board the Array.
JANEWAY: Jabin, can we discuss this like two civilized
TUVOK: They're powering up their weapons.
JANEWAY: I guess we can't.
TUVOK: Shields are holding.
JANEWAY: Fire phasers. Evasive pattern, delta four.

[Maquis ship]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Chakotay. Tuvok and I are beaming to the Array. Can you hold off the Kazon?
CHAKOTAY: I think so, Captain.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Good. Mister Paris, take the conn.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Maintain transporter locks, Ensign. Emergency beam out status.
KIM: Aye, Captain.

[Barn]
TUVOK: The data processing system is behind this wall, Captain.
JANEWAY: You know what to do.
CARETAKER: Well, you're nothing if not persistent.
JANEWAY: We need you to send us back where we came from.
CARETAKER: That isn't possible. I've barely enough strength to complete my work.
JANEWAY: You're sealing the conduits before you die.
CARETAKER: If I don't, the Kazon will steal the water. But in a few years, when the Ocampa's energy runs out, it won't matter. They'll be forced to come to the surface and they won't be able to survive.
JANEWAY: Something you did turned their planet into a desert, didn't it? That was the debt that could never be repaid.
CARETAKER: We're explorers from another galaxy. We had no idea that our technology would be so destructive to their atmosphere. Two of us were chosen to stay behind and care for them.
JANEWAY: There's another like you here?
CARETAKER: Not anymore. No, no. She went off to look for more interesting places.
JANEWAY: Why were you bringing ships here, infecting people with a fatal illness?
CARETAKER: Oh, they didn't die of an illness. They died because they were incompatible.
JANEWAY: Incompatible?
CARETAKER: I've been searching the galaxy for a compatible biomolecular pattern. Now, in some individuals I found cellular structures that were similar, but I
JANEWAY: You've been trying to procreate?
CARETAKER: I needed someone to replace me. Someone who'd understand the enormous responsibility of caring for the Ocampa. Only my offspring could do that.
JANEWAY: Did you ever consider allowing the Ocampa to care for themselves?
CARETAKER: They're children.
JANEWAY: Children have to grow up. We're explorers too. Most of the species we've encountered have overcome all kinds of adversity without a Caretaker. It's the challenge of surviving on their own that helps them to evolve. Maybe your children will do better than you think.
KIM (voiceover): Voyager to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
KIM (voiceover): We've got problems here.

[Bridge]
KIM: The Kazon just got some back up.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We need more time.

[Barn]
JANEWAY: Can you hold them off for another few minutes?
KIM (voiceover): We'll do our best. Kim out.

[Maquis ship]
CHAKOTAY: Their weapons array has been hit. They're in trouble.
TORRES: Neither of us has enough fire power to stop that ship.
CHAKOTAY: I'm setting a collision course, but the guidance system is disabled. I'll have to pilot the ship manually. Get the crew ready to beam to Voyager. And drop shields for transport. Paris, my crew's coming over. Tell one of your crackerjack Starfleet transporter chiefs to keep a lock on me. I'm going to try and take some heat off your tail.
PARIS (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
PARIS: But don't for one second think this makes us even, Chakotay. Your life is still mine.

[Maquis ship]
PARIS (voiceover): Paris out.

[Bridge]
ROLLINS: I'm holding the lock on him, sir, but he's getting too close.
PARIS: I'm getting you out of there, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Not yet!

[Maquis ship]
PARIS (voiceover): You're breaking up. Stand by to transport.
CHAKOTAY: Wait.
CHAKOTAY: Now!

[Transporter room]
PARIS (voiceover): Transporter Room two, do you have him?
CHAKOTAY: They've got me.

[Array]
TUVOK: Captain, I can access the system to send us back to Federation space, but it will take several hours to activate.
JANEWAY: Unless you help us.
CARETAKER: Oh, I wish I could but I have very little time left, so I have initiated a self-destruct program.
JANEWAY: If you destroy the Array, we'll have no way to get home.
CARETAKER: The Ocampa's enemies can not be allowed to control this installation. In minutes, it'll be destroyed. You have to go. Go now.
TUVOK: The Caretaker?
JANEWAY: Voyager, report.
PARIS (voiceover): Kazon vessel

[Bridge]
PARIS: Just collided with the array, Captain. Are you all right?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Affirmative.

[Array]
JANEWAY: Stand by.
CARETAKER: The self-destruct program has been damaged. Now this installation will not be destroyed. But it must be. The Kazon must not be allowed to gain control of it. They will annihilate the Ocampa.
TUVOK: Shall I activate the program to get us back?
JANEWAY: And what happens to the Ocampa after we're gone?
TUVOK: Captain, any action we take to protect the Ocampa would affect the balance of power in this system. The Prime Directive would seem to apply.
JANEWAY: Would it? We never asked to be involved, Tuvok, but we are. We are.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, ready the tricobalt devices.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Open a channel to the Kazon.
KIM: Channel open.
JABIN (screen): Be advised, Captain. I have called for additional ships.
JANEWAY: I'm calling to warn you to move your vessels to a safe distance. I intend to destroy the Array.
JABIN (screen): You can't do that!
JANEWAY: I can and I will. End transmission.
KIM: They're increasing fire, Captain. Shields are holding.
JANEWAY: Move us four hundred kilometers from the Array, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
TORRES: What do you think you're doing? That Array is the only way we have to get back home.
JANEWAY: I'm aware everyone has families and loved ones at homes they want to get back to. So do I. But I'm not willing to trade the lives of the Ocampa for our convenience. We'll have to find another way home.
TORRES: What other way home is there? Who is she to be making these decisions for all of us?
CHAKOTAY: She's the Captain.
TUVOK: The tricobalt devices are ready.
PARIS: We're in position.
JANEWAY: Fire.
KIM: The lead Kazon ship is hailing us.
JANEWAY: On screen.
JABIN (screen): You have made an enemy today.
TUVOK: They are withdrawing, Captain.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
PARIS: You asked to see me, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, you have a problem. I've invited Chakotay and the other Maquis to become part of this crew. It seemed the only reasonable thing to do under the circumstances.
PARIS: Will you provide a bodyguard for me, Captain?
JANEWAY: It seems you already have one.
PARIS: I do?
JANEWAY: Mister Chakotay said something about his life belonging to you? He'll be taking responsibility for your safety.
PARIS: I think I'm going to enjoy this.
JANEWAY: Don't be so sure. He'll also be my First Officer. Everyone aboard this ship will report to him, including the lieutenant assigned to conn.
PARIS: Me?
JANEWAY: I've entered into the ship's log on this date that I'm granting a field commission of lieutenant to Thomas Eugene Paris. Congratulations.
PARIS: Er, for the first time in my life I don't know what to say.
JANEWAY: You've earned this, Tom. I'm only sorry your father won't know.
PARIS: Oh, he'll know. When we get back.
NEELIX: Ah, Captain! We were just coming to see you.
JANEWAY: We supplied your ship with water, Neelix. It's ready to go.
NEELIX: Well, you see, that's what we wanted to discuss. We'd like to go with you.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. This isn't a passenger ship.
KES: Of course not. We won't be passengers.
NEELIX: We'd be valuable colleagues.
JANEWAY: Colleagues?
NEELIX: Whatever you need is what I have to offer. You need a guide? I'm your guide. You need supplies? I know where to procure them. I have friends among races you don't even know exist. You need a cook? Oh, you haven't lived until you've tasted my angla'bosque. It will be my job to anticipate your needs before you know you have them. And I anticipate your first need will be me.
KES: Captain, we both want very much to be a part of your journey.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We're alone in an uncharted part of the galaxy. We have already made some friends here, and some enemies. We have no idea of the dangers we're going to face, but one thing is clear. Both crews are going to have to work together if we're to survive. That's why Commander Chakotay and I have agreed that this should be one crew. A Starfleet crew. And as the only Starfleet vessel assigned to the Delta Quadrant, we'll continue to follow our directive to seek out new worlds and explore space. But our primary goal is clear. Even at maximum speeds, it would take seventy five years to reach the Federation, but I'm not willing to settle for that. There's another entity like the Caretaker out there somewhere who has the ability to get us there a lot faster. We'll be looking for her, and we'll be looking for wormholes, spatial rifts, or new technologies to help us. Somewhere along this journey, we'll find a way back. Mister Paris, set a course for home.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.

[Sickbay]
CAREY: She's not just out of control, she's out of her mind.
TUVOK: If you will explain what happened, Lieutenant.
CAREY: She hit me is what happened!
EMH: Your nose is broken in three places. I'll need to reset the ethmoid fossa. Try not to move.
CAREY: We were having a disagreement about the power grid. She wanted to realign the lateral plasma conduit. I told her that would cause an overload. As usual, she wouldn't listen. So I told her to step aside and let me handle it. She pushed me away from the console. I pushed back. Next thing I knew, I was lying on the deck with blood pouring down my face.
CHAKOTAY: Then what happened?
CAREY: She said, 'Sorry. Maybe you should go to Sickbay.'
EMH: At least she gave you some good advice. Now
CAREY: Ow!
EMH: Hold still.
CHAKOTAY: Don't worry, Lieutenant. I'll take care of this.
CAREY: You keep that woman out of my engine room and everything will be fine! Ow!

[Corridor]
TUVOK: Where is Miss Torres?
CHAKOTAY: I've confined her to quarters.
TUVOK: I would like her moved to the brig until formal charges can be filed.
CHAKOTAY: Formal charges? Come on, Tuvok. We're seventy five years away from the nearest court. Are you really going to hold her in the brig for that long?
TUVOK: The Captain has the authority to try Miss Torres here on the ship, considering the extenuating circumstances.
CHAKOTAY: Well, I'd like to settle this on my own without filing charges and without involving the Captain.
TUVOK: She struck a fellow officer. That is a court martial offense.
CHAKOTAY: She's a Maquis, and in the Maquis, sometimes you have to push people out of your way to get things done.
TUVOK: Miss Torres is no longer a member of the Maquis, and with all due respect, Commander, neither are you. Allowing Miss Torres to get away with a clear violation of regulations sets a bad example for the rest of the crew. It makes it appear as though you were showing favoritism toward the Maquis.
CHAKOTAY: Look, Lieutenant, I don't have to explain myself to you. I'll deal with B'Elanna personally, and then I'll inform the Captain. You're to drop this matter. That's an order.
TUVOK: I will yield my authority in this case to you. However, I will make a full report in my security log.
CHAKOTAY: You do that.
JARVIN: Sir, we heard what happened. What are they going to do with B'Elanna?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know yet but I'll handle it.
SESKA: We heard that Captain Janeway's going to put her in the brig for two months, and that all the Maquis are going to be restricted to quarters when they're not on duty.
CHAKOTAY: Not true.
SESKA: We just want you to know that if things do get our of hand, we're ready to back you.
CHAKOTAY: What does that mean?
JARVIN: In case you want to take control of the ship, you have our full support.
CHAKOTAY: If I ever hear you talk that way again, I'll personally throw you in the brig for mutiny.

[Torres's Quarters]
TORRES: Argh!
CHAKOTAY: Here.
TORRES: What's this?
CHAKOTAY: The medical report on Lieutenant Carey.
TORRES: Lieutenant Carey is an idiot! When I tell you what happened
CHAKOTAY: I don't want to hear it! You might be interested to know that the impact fractures along his cranium were pretty severe. If you'd hit him just a little harder, you could have driven some of those bones into his cerebellum.
TORRES: I didn't even come close to hitting him that hard.
CHAKOTAY: So on the one side, I'm facing a Vulcan who wants court-martial you. And on the other, I'm facing all the Maquis who are ready to seize this ship over this. You've turned this into one lousy day for me, Torres.
TORRES: So how long do I have to stay in here?
CHAKOTAY: Rest of the trip. Seventy five years.
TORRES: I've never found your twisted sense of humor very funny, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Or I could send you back to work with the understanding that you'll apologize to
TORRES: Apologize? He was the one who
CHAKOTAY: Not just a simple apology. A personal one, over a hot cup of pejuta. Bond with the man.
TORRES: I am not going to bond with him.
CHAKOTAY: You're going to need support from people like Carey.
TORRES: I don't need support from anybody.
CHAKOTAY: You are if you're going to be Chief Engineer of this ship.
TORRES: Huh. Right.
CHAKOTAY: This is not another example of my twisted sense of humor.
TORRES: But Carey is next in line.
CHAKOTAY: You're a better engineer than he is.
TORRES: What does the Captain have to say about this?
CHAKOTAY: She hasn't said a word, because I haven't told her yet.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 48439.7. As we maintain a course back to the Alpha Quadrant, we're conducting what would normally be routine maintenance to the ship. Routine, that is, if we had access to a starbase.

[Briefing Room]
PARIS: Engine efficiency's down another fourteen percent. If we don't get more power to the warp drive, we're all going to have to get out and push.
JANEWAY: What about alternative energy sources? Ensign Kim, have you had any luck getting power from the holodeck reactors?
KIM: Not yet. We tried hooking them to the power grid and we ended up blowing out half the relays. The holodeck's energy matrix, it just isn't compatible with the other power systems.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, if we relocate all security personnel to deck seven, we can shut down power on deck nine and reroute it to propulsion.
TUVOK: That would be inconvenient, but acceptable.
JANEWAY: Fine. Now let's move on to the personnel situation. We still have
NEELIX: Sorry we're late, but I wasn't informed there was a meeting this morning. Oh, there don't seem to be enough chairs.
JANEWAY: Neelix, this is a briefing for the senior officers.
NEELIX: I see. Well, I, I am the senior Talaxian on board. Kes is the senior Ocampa. And I do know more about this region of space than any other member of the crew.
KES: We have some excellent suggestions, Captain.
JANEWAY: Very well. You're welcome to join us, this time.
PARIS: Here you are.
JANEWAY: To be honest, we could use some excellent suggestions right now.
KES: I've been thinking that you might be able to convert one of your lower decks into a hydroponics bay to grow your own food. I understand that the replicators are down and that the emergency rations won't hold out much longer.
KIM: What about Cargo Bay two? It was designed for organic storage and it already has adjustable environmental controls.
JANEWAY: When can you start?
KES: Me?
JANEWAY: It's your idea. It's your project.
KES: Right away.
NEELIX: I can do some wonderful things with vegetables, Captain. My feragoit goulash is known across twelve star systems.
JANEWAY: Okay. The personnel situation. We've managed to find a replacement for the Transporter Chief, but we still need an Astrogation plotter, a Chief Engineer, medical support personnel.
CHAKOTAY: I've made a list of several Maquis crew members who would make good officers.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna Torres? She was the one involved in that incident with Mister Carey.
CHAKOTAY: That's right.
JANEWAY: Just what job do you think she's suited for?
CHAKOTAY: Chief Engineer.
JANEWAY: You're serious.
CHAKOTAY: Very.
JANEWAY: Regarding Sickbay, we still need a Chief Medical Officer.
NEELIX: What about that electronic man down in Sickbay?
TUVOK: It is an Emergency Medical Hologram and its abilities are limited. It can only operate within the confines of Sickbay.
PARIS: Not to mention its lousy bedside manner.
CHAKOTAY: Perhaps we should assign somebody to train with the hologram as a field medic.
JANEWAY: Good idea. Lieutenant, I understand you studied biochemistry at the Academy.
PARIS: Er, only two semesters.
JANEWAY: Close enough. You just volunteered to become a field medic. Report to Sickbay as soon as we're finished here.
PARIS: But Captain
JANEWAY: Stations, everyone!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report!
SESKA: We're running into some kind of spatial distortion.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok!
TUVOK: The distortions are emanating from a highly localized disturbance in the space-time continuum. Distance, twenty thousand kilometers off the port bow.
JANEWAY: All stop. On screen. Gravimetric flux density is over two thousand percent. If I'm not mistaken, we're looking at a type four quantum singularity.
TUVOK: Captain, I am receiving an audio transmission from within the singularity.
JANEWAY: On speakers.
KIM: I think I've found the source of the transmission.
JANEWAY: Does it look like any ship you're familiar with?
NEELIX: No, nothing I recognize. But then it's, it's so hard to make out.
JANEWAY: They may be trapped in the event horizon. Open a channel. This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Starship Voyager to the vessel near the quantum singularity. Do you need help?
KES: Event horizon?
NEELIX: A singularity is a star that's collapsed in on itself. The event horizon is a very powerful energy field surrounding it. Why, er, once on a particularly dangerous trade mission to the twin stars of Keloda, I myself was almost trapped inside
TUVOK: No response to our hail, Captain.
JANEWAY: Can we tractor the vessel out?
KIM: No. The subspace interference is too heavy.
NEELIX: Captain, we're less than three light years from Ilidaria. They have sophisticated technology. They might be able to help and they're quite friendly, most of the time.
JANEWAY: No. It looks like it's being pulled in toward the singularity. We have to get it out of the event horizon.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Torres. We need a way to get that ship out of there. Any ideas?
TORRES (voiceover): I was thinking we could remodulate a tractor beam to match

[Engineering]
TORRES: The subspace interference. It might be enough to cut through the event horizon.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: A subspace tractor beam?
TORRES (voiceover): Exactly.
CHAKOTAY: When can you have it ready?
TORRES (voiceover): Two hours, maybe three.
CHAKOTAY: Get right on it. Use as many people as you need.
JANEWAY: Mister Carey, what do you think?

[Engineering]
CAREY: With the right field modulation it might work, but we'll need more power to the emitter array.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Very well. You're in charge, Mister Carey. Report to me when the tractor beam is ready.

[Engineering]
CAREY: Aye, Captain.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Paris? Hold our position here. I'd like to see you in private.

[Ready Room]
JANEWAY: We have a problem and I think it's time we discussed it.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I appreciate your concerns about Torres, but I promise you
JANEWAY: You don't understand, Commander. This isn't about Torres. My problem is with you.
CHAKOTAY: Me?
JANEWAY: Let me be blunt. What you tried to do just now was out of line.
CHAKOTAY: In what way?
JANEWAY: When you decided to call Torres in Engineering.
CHAKOTAY: I've worked with her. I know what she's capable of. We needed an answer right away and I knew she could give us one.
JANEWAY: Carey is the senior officer in Engineering.
CHAKOTAY: If you look at it that way, none of my people will ever have seniority.
JANEWAY: That's the problem, right there. They're not your people. You're treating the Maquis on this ship like they're still your crew.
CHAKOTAY: I'm doing everything I can to integrate them into your crew, but frankly, you're not making it easy for me, Captain.
JANEWAY: I can't make it easy, Commander. Surely you can understand that. They don't have the discipline. They don't have the training.
CHAKOTAY: But some of them, like B'Elanna Torres have the ability.
JANEWAY: The Starfleet officers on this ship have worked all their lives to earn their commissions. How am I supposed to ask them to accept a Maquis as their superior officer just because circumstances have forced us together?
CHAKOTAY: You're asking them to accept me.
JANEWAY: You're qualified. You're a graduate of the Academy, and you have Starfleet command experience.
CHAKOTAY: Permission to speak freely.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY: I have no intention of being your token Maquis officer.
JANEWAY: Show me another qualified Maquis candidate and I'll consider him.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna Torres.
JANEWAY: Who cannot control herself and who could not make it through the Academy.
CHAKOTAY: She's the best engineer I've ever known. She could teach at the Academy. You're right, Captain. I do consider these my people because nobody else on this ship will look out for them like I will. And I'm telling you, you're going to have to give them more authority if you want their loyalty.
JANEWAY: Theirs or yours, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: I'm trying to help you. I'm sorry you don't see that. I strongly recommend you get to know Torres before you choose a new Chief Engineer. Permission to leave.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.

[EMH's office]
KES: Computer, activate the Emergency Medical Holographic system.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
KES: Actually, there is no emergency. I'm creating a hydroponics bay. I was told you could provide me with some nitrogenated soil samples.
EMH: That's it?
KES: I'm sorry if
EMH: So it begins. The trivia of medicine is my domain now. Every runny nose, stubbed toe, pimple on a cheek becomes my responsibility.
KES: You are the only doctor we have.
EMH: I am not just a doctor. I've been designed with the information from two thousand medical reference sources and the experience of forty seven individual medical officers. I am the embodiment of modern medicine. How much dirt do you need?
KES: Four samples will be enough.
EMH: Now I know how Hippocrates felt when the king needed him to trim a hangnail.
KES: You're very sensitive, aren't you?
EMH: As a medical practitioner, I require a certain sensitivity to properly address a patient.
KES: I'm talking about you as a person.
EMH: I am merely a hologram.
KES: Doctor, has your program altered your appearance since I came to Sickbay?
EMH: No. Why?
KES: When I first came in, your head was at the same height as this cabinet. But now you look at least ten centimeters shorter.
EMH: I've just run a diagnostic on my imaging processor. It shows that I've been reduced in height by ten point four centimeters. Sickbay to Operations.

[Bridge]
KIM: This is Kim.
EMH (voiceover): The holographic projector in here is malfunctioning. Would you send a repair crew down right away?
KIM: We're little busy right now. We'll get to it

[Sickbay]
KIM (voiceover): As soon as we can.
EMH: It's just that I
KIM (voiceover): Kim out.
EMH: Well, seems like a very busy day in Operations.
KES: I'm sorry I bothered you with this.
EMH: No trouble at all. Just turn off the program before you leave.
KES: What's your name?
EMH: What purpose would a name serve a hologram?
KES: I'd just like to know what to call you besides Doctor.
EMH: I guess they never thought I'd be around long enough to need one. What's your name?
KES: Kes.
EMH: Kes. I'm glad I could help you today.
KES: Computer, end program.

[Bridge]
CAREY (voiceover): Carey to Bridge. The subspace tractor beam is online and ready to go, Captain.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Mister Tuvok, lock onto that ship.
TUVOK: Engaging tractor beam. It's working. Beam is penetrating the event horizon.
KIM: Engineering, check your power levels. I'm showing

[Engineering]
KIM (voiceover): Massive fluctuations.
TORRES: Damn it! The new relays on the power grid aren't holding.

[Bridge]
PARIS: We're being pulled toward the singularity.
CHAKOTAY: What's going on?
KIM: Power to the tractor beam is down eighty percent. The gravimetric force of the singularity is pulling us in!
JANEWAY: Impulse engines, full reverse!

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Disengage the tractor beam.
TORRES: I can't shut it down. The emitter relays are locked.

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm picking up hull stress all over the ship. If we keep engines at full reverse while the tractor beam's engaged, it'll pull the ship apart.
JANEWAY: Cut the engines.
PARIS: We're moving forward again.
JANEWAY: Engineering, get that tractor beam offline.

[Engineering]
CAREY: Captain, I can shut it down but I'll have to get in there and physically cut the main power feed.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: Tractor beam disengaged.
JANEWAY: Move us to a safe distance, Mister Paris.
CHAKOTAY: Are we abandoning the rescue attempt?
JANEWAY: No, but we are going to need some help. Lay in a course for the Ilidaria system, full impulse. Have Mister Neelix report to the Bridge. It looks like we're going to follow his suggestion after all.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
TORRES: You asked to see me, Captain?
JANEWAY: Have a seat.
TORRES: I just want you to know that I have personally gone over every emitter relay again and refitted four of them myself.
JANEWAY: No one blames you for what happened. Commander Chakotay thinks very highly of you. He's recommended you for Chief Engineer.
TORRES: Well, er, we've, er, we've been through a few scrapes together.
JANEWAY: Do you think you're ready?
TORRES: Ready?
JANEWAY: Ready to be Chief Engineer on a starship.
TORRES: Well, I think I know my way around an engine room, if that's what you mean.
JANEWAY: It's part of what I mean. There's also the matter of your ability to command others. I'm not sure I'd be doing you a favor by putting you in charge down there. There'd be a lot of hard feelings toward you from many of the Starfleet people.
TORRES: I'm not bothered by what people think of me.
JANEWAY: And the job requires knowledge of Starfleet protocol, experience with Starfleet methodologies.
TORRES: Listen, Captain, if you don't think I'm right for this job, just say so.
JANEWAY: I'll be honest. I'm not sure whether you are or not. That's why I wanted to meet, try to get to know you a little better. I've been studying your Academy record.
TORRES: Where did you get that?
JANEWAY: Thanks to Tuvok, we had the names of your entire crew by the time we left DS9. Four disciplinary hearings, one suspension. You had quite a turbulent couple of years, didn't you.
TORRES: Yeah, I guess you could say that.
JANEWAY: What do you think the problem was?
TORRES: The problem? The problem was a system that didn't give anyone a chance to breathe.
JANEWAY: We work under that same system on this ship.
TORRES: Then I guess maybe this is just a bad idea.
JANEWAY: Why did you quit the Academy, B'Elanna?
TORRES: I didn't want to have anything to do with Starfleet then, and I'm sorry that I have to now.
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Yes, Doctor?
EMH (voiceover): May I request you activate monitor input forty seven, your Emergency Medical Holograph channel?
JANEWAY: Of course. I'm getting a distorted transmission.
EMH (screen): No. In fact, that is how I appear at present. I'm shrinking.
JANEWAY: Shrinking?
EMH (screen): There appears to be a malfunction in my imaging system. It's been reducing my height by five centimeters every hour. I've been waiting all day for repairs. That is not, however, what I'm calling about. Over the past three hours, nine crew members have reported unusual symptoms, severe headaches, muscle spasms and sudden waves of dizziness.
JANEWAY: All of this could be related to the quantum singularity.
EMH (screen): Quantum singularity?
JANEWAY: It was sending out strong spatial distortions. They might have affected the crew, and your systems as well.
EMH (screen): You know, Captain, if we were in the vicinity of a quantum singularity I should have been informed.
JANEWAY: You're right. I'll look into linking your program into the ship's data.
EMH (screen): Hello? Captain? Hello?

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like we're running into more spatial distortions.
KIM: I'm picking up a highly localized disturbance off the port bow.
JANEWAY: On screen. Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: It is another type four quantum singularity. Physical and temporal dimensions are identical to the one we encountered earlier.
PARIS: Captain, according to these readings, we've returned to our previous co-ordinates. This isn't another singularity. It's the same one.
JANEWAY: Check the navigational logs. Confirm our position.
KIM: Well, they show we've traveled one point four light years away from the anomaly, but I've confirmed our position against the star chart. We're definitely back where we started. Doesn't make sense.
PARIS: They can't both be right. We're either still at the singularity or we're not.
JANEWAY: Well, we can see the singularity so I tend to believe that the external sensors are correct.
TUVOK: That would imply there was something wrong with the warp drive and the navigational logs.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, lay in a course away from the singularity. This time at maximum warp. Ensign Kim, I want you to keep a sensor lock on the singularity. Verify that we're moving away from it. Engage.
KIM: Distance from the singularity is ten million kilometers and increasing.
PARIS: Warp engines holding steady. All systems report normal.
KIM: Eleven million. Twelve million. I don't get it. Mister Paris, have we altered course?
PARIS: No. We're still steady on three one zero mark two one five.
KIM: Then something's really wrong here. It's ahead of us again.
SESKA: Confirmed. We're back at the same co-ordinates.
JANEWAY: All stop. Ensign Kim, transfer all the data on spatial distortions we encountered to my ready room. I'm going to begin my own analysis. Commander, have all departments run complete system diagnostics. I'll expect a full report from all senior officers at fifteen hundred hours.
CHAKOTAY: Who will represent Engineering?
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Carey.
CHAKOTAY: You should invite B'Elanna Torres as well, unless you've removed her from consideration.
JANEWAY: Fine.

[Engineering]
CAREY: The Captain says she wants you to attend the staff meeting this afternoon.
TORRES: Oh. Well, I'll give you a full report on what happens.
CAREY: I'll be there too. Just remember, Torres, I'm the senior officer and I speak for Engineering. Try not to say anything unless someone asks you a question. Fifteen hundred hours, deck one. Don't be late.
SESKA: You should have broken more than his nose.

[Corridor]
KIM: I've taken a look at every major subsystem and there's no sign of any trouble.
TUVOK: What about the navigational array?
KIM: I'll have the results in about an hour. So, I hear there's been some trouble down in Engineering.
TUVOK: There was an altercation, but it has been resolved.
KIM: That's not what I hear. I hear that the whole department's up in arms, that the Maquis and Starfleet people are almost at each other's throats.
TUVOK: I will never cease to be amazed by the human capacity for hyperbole. The situation may be characterized as tense, but one could hardly say that they're about to become violent.
KIM: I just hope you're right. Things are bad enough around here without, ow!
TUVOK: Are you all right?
KIM: Yeah. I just have this splitting headache and
TUVOK: I'd better get you to Sickbay.
KIM: Dizzy. Can't, can't focus.

[Briefing room]
EMH (screen): Twenty seven other crew members have now reported the symptoms. And yet, when I examined each of them, I couldn't find anything wrong. I have no diagnosis, no prognosis, no recommended treatment. I'll contact you when I have something more to contribute. And by the way, I am now sixty eight centimeters shorter. I'd appreciated it if someone would repair my holographic projectors before I have trouble reaching my patients.
JANEWAY: I finished my study of the spatial distortions coming from the singularity. I can give you a long, boring analysis. Suffice it to say, I don't know what's going on. The readings are confused, the data is contradictory. None of it makes any sense. Anyone have anything more constructive?
TUVOK: Ship-wide diagnostics have revealed nothing out of the ordinary.
CAREY: I tried sending out a tachyon signal to scan the singularity but all I got back was static.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, do you think you can work with Mister Carey to clean up that signal?
TORRES: Yes.
JANEWAY: Good.
TORRES: But it won't work. I mean, it was a good idea to try it but it won't work.
JANEWAY: You have another idea?
TORRES: I was just thinking about the problem with the Doctor's holographic projectors. It seems like the spatial distortions might be interfering with the projectors phase alignment.
JANEWAY: That was my guess too.
TORRES: If that's the case, I could screen out those distortions by setting up a localized dampening field around the projectors.
CAREY: Is our priority here really the Medical Holograph system?
TORRES: My point is, that if the spatial distortions are also interfering with the transmission we received from the other ship
JANEWAY: We could set up a similar field around our external sensors and communicate with them.
TORRES: Exactly. And they may know more about what's going on than we do.
JANEWAY: Let's give it a try. Dismissed.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Emitters online. I'm rerouting the damping field through the deflector grid.
JANEWAY: Open a channel to the other ship.
TORRES: Ramping up field intensity.
KIM: It's working. We're cutting through the distortions.
VOICE (voiceover): to the vessel near
JANEWAY: Remodulate the EM band. See if you can clear it up a little more.
KIM: Compensating for amplitude distortion.
JANEWAY (voiceover): This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Starship Voyager to the vessel near the quantum singularity. Do you need help?
CHAKOTAY: That's your hail.
TORRES: I'm applying the damping field to our visual scanners. I'll see if I can clarify the image.
PARIS: It's the Voyager. It's us.
PARIS: Sensors confirm it's definitely USS Voyager.
TUVOK: I've been hailing the ship on all frequencies. No response.
JANEWAY: I don't think you'll get a response, Lieutenant. That message we unscrambled is the same message I sent out nine hours ago.
KIM: Could we have traveled back in time and met ourselves?
TORRES: No, that's not it. I think I have an explanation.

[Briefing room]
TORRES: Think of it like this. You're sitting at the bottom of a pond, which is frozen over, and you look up at the surface and you see a reflection of yourself. Now, you might think you're looking at another person sitting at the bottom of another pond, looking back at you.
JANEWAY: And in this case, we'd be staring up at the surface of the event horizon and seeing a time-delayed reflection of ourselves.
CHAKOTAY: Are you saying we're the ones trapped in the singularity?
TORRES: Unfortunately, yes.
JANEWAY: You're right. It's the only theory that explains everything that's happened to us. We've probably been in this singularity since we felt the first jolt.
PARIS: Wait a minute. Wait. Wait a minute. Let me get this straight. We were cruising along at warp seven, then we pick up a distress call and moved in to investigate. But now you're saying that the other ship is actually just a reflection of us and that the distress call is actually just the Captain's opening hail. But we picked up the distress call before she sent the hail. How could we have been seeing a reflection of something we hadn't even done yet? Am I making any sense here?
JANEWAY: No, but that's okay. One of the more difficult concepts to grasp in temporal mechanics is that sometimes effect can precede cause. A reaction can be observed before the action which initiated it.
KIM: So what do we do to get out?
TORRES: I'm not sure. But I do know one thing. That as we slide deeper into the singularity, the spatial distortions are increasing. According to my calculations, within nine hours, they'll crush the ship.
JANEWAY: If your analogy's correct, how do we get through that sheet of ice?
TORRES: Look for a crack.
JANEWAY: Or make a crack. Take something and smack it into the ice until it buckles.
TORRES: Wait a minute. What if we've already made a crack in the ice?
JANEWAY: When we first entered the event horizon.
TORRES: If we could find our entry point, we might be able to slip out the way we came in.
JANEWAY: So we'd be looking for a subspace instability in the event horizon. What would make it show up on our sensors?
JANEWAY: Warp particles.
JANEWAY: If we saturate the event horizon with warp particles, we might be able to see the escaping through the rupture we made when we entered.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, take the main deflector off-line. Mister Kim, reroute the port and starboard plasma flow to the main deflector. We can use it to generate a warp field.
TUVOK: Deflectors off-line.
KIM: Initializing plasma flow.
JANEWAY: Release the warp particles.
PARIS: Scanning the singularity.
TORRES: Anything?
KIM: Not yet. Warp particles at full intensity.
PARIS: I'm picking up something. A slight irregularity. It could be a rupture in the event horizon.
JANEWAY: Put it on screen.
PARIS: It is a rupture, Captain. It's fifteen meters by ten meters.
TORRES: Oh, it's too small. It must have collapsed since we first passed through it.
JANEWAY: We found the crack. That's the important thing. Now, how do we make it bigger.
TORRES: Put a wedge in it and force it open. We could try a dekyon beam.
JANEWAY: All right, a dekyon beam. Mister Paris, bring us closer.
PARIS: Captain, if we get too close to the rupture our warp engines might make it collapse even further.
JANEWAY: Can we emit a beam from here?
KIM: The rupture's over fifty million kilometers away. We don't have enough power to project a dekyon beam that far.
JANEWAY: We'll have to take a shuttlecraft.
PARIS: You'll need the best pilot you've got in that shuttle, Captain. That'll be me.
JANEWAY: Getting there is the easy part, Mister Paris. We need someone who's familiar with the finer points of temporal mechanics, and unless you've been hiding your credentials, I don't think that's you. B'Elanna, you're with me. The Bridge is yours, Commander.

[Shuttlecraft]
JANEWAY: We've cleared Voyager.
TORRES: Shields at full strength.
JANEWAY: We'll reach the rupture in approximately four and a half minutes. Let's get that dekyon beam online.
TORRES: Remodulating emitters. Captain, I want to apologize for losing my temper in your Ready room. I think maybe you were hitting a little bit too close to home, you know? I respect Chakotay but he's wrong. I'm not officer material and we both know it. The truth is, I quit the Academy because I realized I couldn't make it in Starfleet, and believe me, no one was sorry to see me go.
JANEWAY: Professor Chapman was.
TORRES: What?
JANEWAY: He put a letter in your permanent file saying that should you ever re-apply, he would support you. He thought you were one of the most promising cadets he'd ever taught.
TORRES: I fought with him almost every day. I was always questioning his, his methods, his assumptions, and he was always slapping me down like some upstart kid. I was surprised he didn't help me pack my bags.
JANEWAY: Some professors like students who challenge their assumptions, B'Elanna. And so do some captains. Professor Chapman wasn't alone. Many of your teachers thought you had the potential to be an outstanding officer. You had more friends at the Academy than you realized. We're fifteen kilometers from the rupture. Start charging the dekyon beam.
TORRES: Dekyon beam online. Shields down to sixty two percent.
JANEWAY: Increase speed. We have to get to that rupture before these spatial distortions tear us apart. All right. Let's open this hole in the ice a little wider. Initiate the dekyon beam.

[Bridge]
KIM: They've widened the rupture by almost thirty five percent.
PARIS: They'll have to widen it twice that much before Voyager can make it through.
CHAKOTAY: Hold our position! Mister Tuvok, report.
TUVOK: The spatial distortions are increasing.
KIM: Hull integrity has dropped

[Shuttlecraft]
KIM (voiceover): Eighteen percent.
JANEWAY: We've widened the opening by over sixty five percent. I'd like another five for safety.
TORRES: We're losing power. I don't think we're going to get any more, Captain.
JANEWAY: Let's get back to Voyager.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The shuttle is returning, Commander. It appears as though they've been damaged. Their comm. system's down. I am unable to raise them.
KIM: The rupture's now one hundred twenty meters in diameter. That leaves us with less than two meters clearance on either side.
CHAKOTAY: Mister Paris, as soon as we've recovered the shuttlecraft, lay in a course toward the rupture and take us out.
PARIS: Aye, sir.

[Shuttlecraft]
TORRES: Well, this is a problem.
JANEWAY: One of them is a temporal reflection, but which one? I'm getting identical readings from both ships.
TORRES: Captain, the rupture is starting to collapse again. If Voyager doesn't get through it within the next five minutes, they'll never get out.
JANEWAY: That means we have one chance to pick the correct ship.
TORRES: Simple choice. Port or starboard?
JANEWAY: Starboard.
TORRES: Port. The port ship is more likely to be the real one. It's closer to the rupture. That means,
TORRES: That means they're holding position as close as they can to the rupture, waiting for us to dock before they head out.
JANEWAY: No. It may be closer to the rupture, but it's facing the wrong direction. The starboard ship is facing away from us. That means they're trying to give us easy access to the shuttlebay.
TORRES: There has to be some way to tell them apart besides which direction they're facing.
JANEWAY: The starboard ship's thrusters are at standby. They're holding position. But the port ship is moving toward the rupture.
TORRES: Then I was right. It's the port ship. They're heading out.
JANEWAY: Don't you see? Voyager did move toward the rupture twenty minutes ago when we first discovered it. That's why the port ship is moving toward it now. It's a time-delayed reflection of what we did before. The starboard ship's the real one. They're waiting for us.
TORRES: If you're wrong, we're going to have a long time to debate it.
TORRES: We're ready to dock.
JANEWAY: All right. Cut the thrusters. Let's see what happens. Feels like a real ship to me. Let's get back to the Bridge.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Commander Chakotay, report.
CHAKOTAY: We're almost to the rupture. Mister Paris is about to impress us with his piloting skills.
KIM: The rupture's collapsing. It's down to one hundred ten meters wide.
TORRES: That's too narrow. We're not going to make it.
JANEWAY: In command school, they taught us to always remember that maneuvering a starship is a very delicate process. But over the years I've learned that sometimes you just have to punch your way through. Mister Paris, full impulse power.
TUVOK: Shields are down.
PARIS: I'm losing power to the port impulse engine.
KIM: Switching to auxiliary power.
TUVOK: Hull integrity failing.
JANEWAY: Keep it together, Mister Paris.
TUVOK: We've cleared the event horizon, Captain. We've returned to normal space.
PARIS: Sometimes you just have to punch your way through. I'll have to remember that one.
JANEWAY: Set a course. I want to be at least one hundred million kilometers away from the singularity before we begin repairs.

[Engineering]
CHAKOTAY: There they are. Your staff.
TORRES: I'll try not to break any of their noses.
CHAKOTAY: First order of the day. The Captain wants the warp drive back online by thirteen hours.
TORRES: Thirteen hundred? That's impossible.
CHAKOTAY: Then maybe you need to go break a few noses, or at least bend a few. Lieutenant.
TORRES: All right. Get that isolinear bank up and running. And lock down those plasma relays. Please. I'm going to be counting on you, Lieutenant. I'm not up to date on the latest Starfleet protocols and I know that you're probably more familiar with the quirks of this warp engine than I am right now. I hope that I can depend on you.
CAREY: I assure you, you'll never get less than my best. Lieutenant, congratulations. Welcome aboard.

[Engineering upper level]
CHAKOTAY: Are you checking up on your new Chief Engineer?
JANEWAY: Observing.
CHAKOTAY: And?
JANEWAY: Two crew members have already filed complaints about her promotion and she may be in for a tough period of adjustment, but I think B'Elanna's going to make a fine addition to this crew. Our crew.
CHAKOTAY: Can I ask you a question, off the record? If things had happened differently, and we were on the Maquis ship now instead of Voyager, would you have served under me?
JANEWAY: One of the nice things about being Captain is that you can keep some things to yourself.
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
EMH (voiceover): Is someone ever going to come down here and fix my holographic projectors?
JANEWAY: We're little busy right now, Doctor.

[EMH's office]
JANEWAY (voiceover): But I'll send a crew down as soon as I can.
EMH: I would appreciate a certain expediency in the matter.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Acknowledged. Janeway out.
EMH: I'm sorry, Lieutenant, but whatever it is you're going to have to take care of it yourself.
PARIS: Oh, it's all right. It's just a scratch, really. You know, I like you better this way.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Holding course three five one mark one zero, warp seven. We'll be passing a red dwarf system in forty minutes. I can't tell you if there are any M-class planets.
PARIS: You ready?
KIM: No, I really want to get on that transtator assembly diagnostic.
PARIS: Harry, I can't do this alone.
KIM: I'm sorry.
PARIS: You're making a big mistake. Can't you see what's going to happen? We're the only humans out here, Harry. People are going to start pairing off, and if we don't get to the Delany sisters in Stellar Cartography soon, somebody else will.
KIM: I've got a girl back home.
PARIS: So what? I've got five.
KIM: I plan on seeing mine again.
PARIS: Harry, Harry, Harry, Harry, Harry. You really think she's going to wait for you?
KIM: I hope so.
PARIS: Let her go. Let her have a husband and kids and a good life, while you and I have the Delany sisters.
KIM: I told you, I need to run a transtator diagnostic.
PARIS: You need to run a self-diagnostic. Look, they come as a pair. It's a double date or no date. Come on. I told them all about you.
KIM: What did you tell them about me?
PARIS: Well, for one thing, how you broke the single pilot speed record at the Academy.
KIM: Record. I never broke any record!
PARIS: And who are they going to check it with?
JANEWAY: Report!
TUVOK: We're at the leading edge of a shockwave.
KIM: Minor hull breach on deck three. Contained. Shields are holding.
TORRES (voiceover): Engineering is undamaged, Captain. All systems operational.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, can you identify the source of the wave?
PARIS: I'm not sure. Scanners are picking up a debris cloud in the red dwarf system we're approaching.
TUVOK: It consists of differentially charged polaric ions, Captain.
JANEWAY: Differentially charged? That would suggest a massive detonation. Are you familiar with any intelligent life forms in this system, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: Familiar? Not exactly familiar. Considerably less than familiar, actually.
JANEWAY: Adjust course to investigate.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
PARIS: Entering the system Captain. Heading zero one zero mark four. Deflectors at maximum.
NEELIX: Kes, what are you doing here?
KES: I had to know.
NEELIX: Know? Know what?
PARIS: The origin of the shockwave is an M-class planet, Captain. We're within visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
KIM: All vegetation on the planet has been destroyed.
TUVOK: No satellite system in orbit, no evidence of space craft.
JANEWAY: Life signs?
KES: None.
PARIS: None. But the polaric radiation may be interfering with the scanners.
JANEWAY: Take us into orbit.
CHAKOTAY: Density patterns on the surface show artificial waterways and a global aqueduct system. There is a civilization down there, Captain.
JANEWAY: Or there was. What do we know about surface conditions?
TUVOK: Radiation is within acceptable levels. Atmosphere, breathable.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, Tuvok, you're with me. Miss Torres, meet us in transporter room two.
TORRES (voiceover): On my way.
JANEWAY: Commander, you have the Bridge.

[Ruined plaza]
TORRES: The entire surface of the planet was just seared.
JANEWAY: There was a chain reaction in subspace, very likely triggered by the detonation of one or more polaric ion devices.
PARIS: If that's what happened, the people here never had a chance.
TORRES: They're gone. Vaporized. Every organic has basically been obliterated.
JANEWAY: At least it happened quickly. Polaric detonation would have swept through this city in seconds.
TUVOK: It recalls the Chaltok Four incident.
TORRES: Chaltok Four?
TUVOK: A Romulan research colony was nearly destroyed during the testing of one these devices. It lead to the Polaric Test Ban Treaty of 2268.
TORRES: So, we're looking at the end of a war.
PARIS: I wonder who won?
JANEWAY: I'm not so sure there was a war. Look at these readings, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Polaric ion concentrations are so high I can't get an accurate reading.
JANEWAY: I'd say these conduits were the source of the explosion, wouldn't you?
TORRES: A civilization powered by polaric ion energy?
JANEWAY: That's what it looks like. A time bomb underneath every street, running into every home.

[Kes's quarters]
NEELIX: What do you mean, you saw it? How could you see it?
KES: I don't know.
NEELIX: What did you see?
KES: I saw them burn. Their bodies ashes where they stood.
NEELIX: You felt the shockwave in your sleep. It's just your imagination, a strange coincidence.
KES: I don't think so.
NEELIX: What else could it be?
KES: It was almost telepathic.
NEELIX: Telepathy is a message, words, a voice. What you're describing, why, it's almost like the visions of Drakian forest dwellers.
KES: Who?
NEELIX: A tribe with para-normal abilities. They can walk into an empty room
KES: Neelix. My ancestors were said to have unusual mental abilities.
NEELIX: No one believes those stories.
KES: I always have.

[Ruined plaza]
PARIS: Look. This may be some kind of time piece, stopped at the moment of the explosion.
PARIS: What was that?
TORRES: What?
PARIS: Didn't you hear that?
TUVOK: Hear what, Lieutenant?
PARIS: Kids playing. They were as close to me as
PARIS: I don't understand. I was here in this square, but there were people.
JANEWAY: You never left here, Tom.
PARIS: But I saw them! Lots of people, children playing, and the sun was shining. There was no evidence of an explosion. Everyone was alive and happy.
JANEWAY: You were standing here the whole time.
TORRES: Your central nervous system is showing a temporal flux, but it's rapidly returning to normal.
TUVOK: The chain reaction has shattered subspace, Captain.
JANEWAY: I want everyone to stand exactly where they are. If Tuvok's right, there may be subspace fractures floating like icebergs across the planet's surface. Away team to Voyager.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
JANEWAY: Four to beam up.

[Plaza]
JANEWAY: Tuvok! B'Elanna! Janeway
GUARD: Hey, calm down. It's all right. Now, what's the problem?
LATIKA: I saw them. They appeared out of thin air! They're some kind of demons. I saw them with my own eyes.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry we startled him. We just came around the corner.
LATIKA: They're lying!
GUARD: Shh. Now, calm down. You've been reading too many of those Dark Storm tales, young fellow. There's no such thing as demons.
LATIKA: But, I'm telling you.
GUARD: Ah, ah, ah! Run along now. Have a confection bar and calm down. All right everybody, back to your business. Nothing else to see here now.
GUARD: Oh, sorry about that.
PARIS: No problem.
GUARD: Who knows what gets into their heads, huh?
JANEWAY: Perhaps the uniform scared him. We're not from this area.
GUARD: Come in on the continental transport?
JANEWAY: This morning.
GUARD: Is, er, that what they're wearing in Kalto province these days?
PARIS: Er, this is a little more formal than most. You know how it is when you travel.
JANEWAY: We were actually looking for a clothing shop. We thought we'd change into something more appropriate.
GUARD: There's one right over there. I hope the rest of your stay with us is more enjoyable.
PARIS: I wish I could say it will be.
SHOPKEEPER: Need a timepiece?
PARIS: Maybe you could help me. I'm from Kalto Province. I'm not used to your timepieces.
SHOPKEEPER: They're no different that Kalton pieces.
PARIS: Are you sure? What do these numbers stand for?
SHOPKEEPER: Rotations, intervals, fractions. Same as any timepiece. Fourteen kalodas.
PARIS: A fair price. I might stop back later, if there's time.
PARIS: If I understood correctly, this world is going to be destroyed sometime tomorrow. First officers log, supplemental. There's been no sign of Captain Janeway or Lieutenant Paris since they were lost in a subspace fracture.

[Briefing Room]
KIM: This is one of the subspace fractures we've located with a magneton scan of the surface. This is the time of the explosion, where the fracture opens. Then as the shock waves dissipate, the fracture grows more narrow. We believe that the Captain and Lieutenant Paris are trapped at the narrow end.
TORRES: Shockwaves from most explosions dissipate into the future, but we're speculating, based in part on what Paris told us he saw, that these dissipate into the past.
KIM: That's consistent with the subspace damage we've observed.
TUVOK: Why haven't they been able to return as Mister Paris did the first time?
TORRES: He wasn't all the way inside a fracture, remember? We still saw Paris standing there even when he could see the other side.
CHAKOTAY: So it's possible that the Captain and Paris are existing only hours and minutes before the explosion occurs.
TORRES: There's no way for us to measure exactly how far back these fractures go.
CHAKOTAY: How do we find them?
TUVOK: If I know Captain Janeway, she would activate a subspace beacon to assist us.
KIM: We're counting on it. First we have to find a fracture in a location where they've been. Then we have to microscan the fracture to try to pick up the signal from their subspace beacon.
TORRES: Once we've identified where and when they re, then we have to widen the fracture at that point.
TUVOK: How do you suggest we do that?
KIM: We're not sure yet.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Hmm. Hmm, hmm.
NEELIX: What?
EMH: Hmm?
NEELIX: Is something wrong?
EMH: Yes, terribly wrong. Your brain is not on file. Either your government failed to transmit the standard fifteen five oh one crew personnel report or somebody at Starfleet Medical really fouled up.
KES: I'm not a member of the Starfleet crew.
NEELIX: We came aboard at mid-expedition.
EMH: And no one asked you for your medical histories when you arrived? Of course not. That would be the ship's doctor's job. My job, if anyone had bothered to tell me about new passengers, but I seem to be just about the last to know about everything around here. So, tell me, just how many other new arrivals are there?
NEELIX: Just us.
KES: And the crew from another ship that was destroyed.
EMH: Another crew. That's nice. This is the Emergency Medical Holographic system to Captain Janeway.
NEELIX: She's not on board. She's missing on the surface of a planet.
EMH: Missing. The Captain is missing. It seems I've found myself on the Voyage of the Damned. Very well. Please advise the highest ranking officer who is not missing, to see me at his earliest convenience. You may shut off my program now.
NEELIX: But you haven't told us anything about her condition.
EMH: She is the healthiest member of her species I've ever seen. The only member of her species I've ever seen. You have a lovely brain. It will make a fine addition to our files. I wouldn't worry. If your species has a history of extraordinary mental abilities, this may simply be your way of flexing those muscles for the first time. Living in space requires the body to make a variety of biological adjustments. This could be a side-effect of that process. Go home. Get a good night's sleep and drink plenty of fluids.
KES: Fluids?
EMH: Everybody should drink plenty of fluids. Don't leave without turning me off.
KES: Computer, end program.
EMH: And call me in the morning.

[Plaza]
JANEWAY: We can assume that Voyager will be looking for a way to reach us. I'll set my comm. badge to emit a subspace beacon. If they get close, maybe they'll pick it up. I know.
PARIS: Maybe there's some way that
JANEWAY: Don't even think about it, Tom. The Prime Directive is clear. We cannot allow our presence to alter this planet's natural course of events.
PARIS: Even if the natural course of events is annihilation?
JANEWAY: Yeah.
PARIS: My father used to talk at length to us about the Prime Directive, once a year, like a holiday sermon.
JANEWAY: He considered it the guiding principle of space exploration.
PARIS: To be honest, I tuned out most of his sermons years ago.
JANEWAY: Well, tune back into this one, because I agree with him. You have no idea what the consequences might be once you involve yourself.
PARIS: The consequences would have to be better than mass destruction.
JANEWAY: You're not to warn these people. That's an order.
JANEWAY: Oh, god. Come on.
LATIKA: I know you're lying.
JANEWAY: Young man, we're here on a business trip and we have a lot of work to do.
LATIKA: The officer told me you came here on the continental transport.
JANEWAY: That's right, we're from Kalto Province.
LATIKA: Yeah? Well I just talked to the transport attendant, He told me four people came today from Kalto. Two of them were a lot older than you and they had a child with them.
JANEWAY: Well the attendant was wrong. That was us.
LATIKA: So, where's the child?
PARIS: We ate him, because we are demons and we eat children and I haven't had my supper yet.
PARIS: Sorry. I just figured it was the quickest way.
JANEWAY: Let's concentrate on getting out of here.
PARIS: The same subspace fractures that brought us here might still be around. If they were caused by a polaric explosion? Is there any way we could use polaric energy to get us back?
JANEWAY: If we had access to a polaric ion generator, we could modify a tricorder to emit a polaric field. At the very least it might help us scan for a fracture.
PARIS: I wonder where these conduits get their power?

[Outside the Power Plant]
MAKULL: This is a lawful demonstration.
TERLA: We have a right to be here.
PARIS: Under normal circumstances I'd say we should come back tomorrow.

[Engineering]
TORRES: This device uses the same polaric energy that destroyed the planet.
KIM: At intense levels it can open a subspace fracture.
CHAKOTAY: Wide enough for the Captain and Paris to get through?
TORRES: If we can locate them, this is capable of bringing them back.
TUVOK: The logical place to begin would be at the same location they disappeared.
KIM: Only problem is, at the necessary intensity, the polaric generator will burn itself out after thirty seconds at best.
CHAKOTAY: Can't we re-initialize the generator and start again?
TORRES: Not at the same location. Once we make an attempt at any given location, the damage to subspace will make a second attempt impossible.
CHAKOTAY: How do we prevent one of us getting trapped in a fracture?
TORRES: We've modified our tricorders to detect the fractures, and all of us will be wearing one of these.
TORRES: It puts out an anti-polaric field. It should repel the fractures when they get within three meters.
CHAKOTAY: Nice work.
NEELIX: Ah, Commander. Will you be going back to the planet surface?
CHAKOTAY: We're getting ready to leave right now.
KES: I have to go with you.
CHAKOTAY: There's nothing down there you want to see, Kes.
NEELIX: That's what I told her.
KES: I've already seen it. I have to go.

[Room]
MAKULL: We're sorry to involve you in this. Pe'Nar Makull. My colleague, Ny Terla.
TERLA: Apparently you just happened to be at the wrong place at the wrong time.
PARIS: I was just thinking the very same thing.
MAKULL: What were you doing there?
JANEWAY: We're from Kalto Province. We were hoping to tour your power facility, compare it to our own.
TERLA: I've never seen a Kalton with your color hair.
JANEWAY: Well, now you have.
MAKULL: My friend thinks you were sent by the government to infiltrate us.
PARIS: Infiltrate? You were there when she got this.
TERLA: Perhaps you were told to put on a good show for us.
PARIS: We don't even know why someone would want to infiltrate you.
TERLA: That's hard to believe. Even in Kalto there are protests against polaric energy.
JANEWAY: We're not spies.
MAKULL: When was the last time you were in a power plant?
JANEWAY: Not since we left home.
MAKULL: You weren't in that plant yesterday?
PARIS: We were just getting there when we stumbled into you.
MAKULL: We know you're not telling the truth. We have safety monitors to measure polaric energy. When you were brought here, they registered five times the normal readings.
TERLA: To register levels this high you were either inside that plant yesterday, or at the site of a polaric disaster worse than any in the history of this planet.

[Ruined plaza]
CHAKOTAY: What is it?
KES: It's as though I can sense the people who were here.
CHAKOTAY: I know. It's like walking through a graveyard.
KES: No, it's more than that. I almost feel as if I could touch the people who were here.
CHAKOTAY: What have you found?
TUVOK: The scanners are not showing any subspace fractures in the area now.
TORRES: That probably indicates the subspace damage is beginning to dissipate. If that's true, it's going to be harder to locate Tom and the Captain.
KIM: Commander, I'm picking up a signal from a comm. badge.
CHAKOTAY: The subspace beacon?
KIM: No, it's not on subspace. It's here, now. Kim to Janeway. Kim to Paris.
CHAKOTAY: Can we locate the source of the signal?
KIM: Yes, sir. This way.

[Room]
MAKULL: What's your name?
JANEWAY: Janeway.
MAKULL: Unusual name.
JANEWAY: Not where I'm from.
MAKULL: What part of Kalto province was that again?
JANEWAY: I don't see any point in this.
MAKULL: There is a point, a very important one. It has to do with our schedule, and whether we can keep it or not. Can we?
JANEWAY: I don't know.
MAKULL: Do they know our plan?
JANEWAY: I have no idea.
LATIKA: Let me go!
TERLA: Look what I caught sneaking around outside.

[Ruined room]
TUVOK: I'm still not showing any lifesigns.

[Room]
JANEWAY: The boy has nothing to do with any of this.
MAKULL: Is he yours?
JANEWAY: No, he's just somebody we met here.
LATIKA: Don't trust them. They aren't who they say they are.
MAKULL: Really?
PARIS: Thanks, kid.
JANEWAY: Look, this is all a misunderstanding.
LATIKA: They lied about coming here on the Continental transport. I talked to the attendant myself. Let me go.
TERLA: What do we do with him? We can't let him go.
MAKULL: Just put him over there with the other.
TERLA: Now stay quiet.

[Ruined room]
KIM: The comm. badge is designed to self-activate when the casing is destroyed to help searchers locate victims.
TORRES: I guess it means they were caught in the explosion.
TUVOK: It only means their comm. badges were caught in the explosion. Further speculation serves no purpose. I suggest we search for other tangible evidence.

[Room]
MAKULL: None of us have seen devices like these before. Terla believes they're spy equipment.
JANEWAY: They're for surveying property. I've been thinking of buying land here. I need to survey it.
TERLA: I'd be curious to know how they work. Would you show me?
MAKULL: But then one of them might be a weapon, and I wouldn't want you to show me how that works, would I?
PARIS: Hey, kid, you were right about one thing. I was lying. I don't eat children
LATIKA: You don't scare me. My father works for the Media Bureau and when I tell him all about this
PARIS: What is he, some kind of journalist?
LATIKA: Yes, and so am I.
PARIS: Is that right?
LATIKA: I report for my school journal. That's right where everyone's going to find out about you when I write about this in next week's edition.
PARIS: What's your name?
LATIKA: Latika.
PARIS: Latika. I'm sorry.
LATIKA: For what?
PARIS: I just am.
MAKULL: I realize how this must appear to you but I'm just a patriot.
JANEWAY: A patriot?
MAKULL: I sincerely believe polaric energy has the potential to destroy this entire world.
JANEWAY: And I take it very few people here agree with you.
MAKULL: We have more support since the accident at Markov. We know the companies are afraid of us. We know they've increased security at all their plants, but it will not be enough to stop us. We can't wait another week, we have to move up the schedule. We know they're not telling us the truth. We have to assume the government sent them. Tell everyone we begin at four hundred tomorrow.
JANEWAY: Wait a minute.

[Ruined room]
KES: Captain?

[Room]
JANEWAY: Kes.
MAKULL: Do you have something to tell me, Janeway? If that's your real name.
JANEWAY: It is my real name. Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager.

[Ruined room]
KES: I can feel their presence.
TUVOK: Please elaborate. How can you feel their presence?
KES: I don't know. I just can. They've been in this room, I know it.
CHAKOTAY: Is there a subspace fracture anywhere in here?
TUVOK: Affirmative.
CHAKOTAY: Set up the equipment.

[Room]
JANEWAY: You wanted the truth, all right, here's the truth. We're from the future. Exactly one day in the future.
LATIKA: You mean I was right?
PARIS: We weren't allowed to tell. At least, I thought we weren't.
JANEWAY: In a few hours from now there will be a serious accident on this world. It will be caused by a polaric detonation. We came here in an interstellar ship to investigate that explosion. When we arrived, we were exposed to the polaric radiation.

[Room]
TUVOK: Showing a subspace fracture, co-ordinates one four one by twenty one by fourteen, five percent drift, range four meters.
KIM: Got it. Initiating generator.
TORRES: Initiating microscanner for subspace fracture.

[Room]
JANEWAY: It's very likely that what ever you're planning to do could be responsible for this tragedy.
MAKULL: And somehow you are able to come back here to warn us?
JANEWAY: The explosion had an after-effect that no one expected. It created fractures in time. We fell through one of those fractures.
MAKULL: Interstellar ships, fractures in time, do you honestly expect us to believe all this?

[Ruined room]
TORRES: I've found them. Scanners are picking up a subspace beacon. Adjusting penetration co-ordinates to match. I'll try to open up the other end.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Janeway.

[Room]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain, can you read us?
TERLA: Eavesdropping devices.
JANEWAY: No, but they are for communication. My crew is trying to contact me.
TERLA: From the future, of course.
MAKULL: Get the particle injector.
MAKULL: Bring them with us. The boy, too. I have an idea how they can help.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Janeway, can you read me? Please respond.

[On the way to the Power plant]
PARIS: I don't get it, Captain, this morning you were giving orders about not interfering because of the Prime Directive, and now you're telling them everything.
JANEWAY: I told them the truth when I realized we'd already violated the Prime Directive in the worst possible manner.
PARIS: How did we do that?
JANEWAY: Just by being here. Because if we hadn't been here it's very possible this world would not have been destroyed.
PARIS: What?
JANEWAY: Think about it, Tom. Before we got involved, these people were planning to commit some kind of sabotage next week. We were the ones who forced a change in their schedule. Because of us, they decided to begin today at four hundred rotations, and we know the detonation takes place today at just after four hundred and one .
PARIS: Four oh one twenty two eighty four. Wait a minute. You're saying we're responsible for an explosion even though it occurred before our ship arrived here.
JANEWAY: We've traveled back to a point in time before the explosion, so, yes, we can be responsible for it.
PARIS: Let's say we never came, and their plans didn't change. Wouldn't the accident simply have occurred next week instead of today?
JANEWAY: Who knows what might have happened between now and then. They could have been arrested before they got a chance to carry it out, conditions at the plant might not have been the same next week. But it's become our problem now, Tom, and we have got to find a way to solve it.

[Briefing Room]
KIM: We're running out of time. The subspacefractures are closing. We've lost over seventy percent of them.
TORRES: At this point we're suggesting we concentrate our search at the flash-point.
TUVOK: May I ask what you expect to accomplish by doing that?
KIM: We figure the Captain and Paris might have looked for the origin of the explosion to try and prevent it.
TUVOK: Unlikely. It would be a highly questionable decision in light of the Prime Directive.
CHAKOTAY: If it were me, I would have tried to get there.
TUVOK: The issue is whether Captain Janeway would go there, not you, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: You think you can locate the flash-point?
TORRES: We already have.
CHAKOTAY: Let's go.

[Outside the Power Plant]
MAKULL: Your job is to get us past the guards. You'll tell them you're bringing us here to negotiate a settlement of our dispute with the power company.
JANEWAY: I cannot and will not do anything to help you.
MAKULL: Think before you say no. Terla has a weapon trained on the boy. If shooting begins he'll be the first victim.
GUARD: Is there something I can do for you?
MAKULL: She's a government representative on official business.
JANEWAY: I am a hostage. These men are here to break into the plant.
MAKULL: Their lives are on your conscience, Janeway!
LATIKA: You saved my life.
PARIS: Don't waste time with me, Captain. Got to stop them.
JANEWAY: Will you stay with him until help arrives?
PARIS: Sure he will, the kid and I, we're old friends now, aren't we?
LATIKA: Yeah.
JANEWAY: I'll be back for you.
PARIS: We'll be here.

[Ruined corridor]
KIM: The polaric levels are higher here than any place we've been so far.
TORRES: This was undoubtedly the flash-point of the explosion. Whatever went wrong, it started here.
CHAKOTAY: Do we have subspace fractures to work with here?
TUVOK: Affirmative. They remain quite numerous in this area.
CHAKOTAY: Set up the equipment.
KIM: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
TERLA: I need the injector.
JANEWAY: Just hand that bag to me.

[Ruined corridor]
TUVOK: Four one by three one zero. Two percent drift, range six meters, mark.
KIM: I have it. Initiating generator.
TORRES: Scanning for the subspace beacon. It doesn't look like they were here.
TUVOK: It is highly unlikely that Captain Janeway would come here to
KES: No, the Captain did come. She was here. This is where she died.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Everybody on this planet has less than three minutes to live if you go through with this, Makull. Don't!
MAKULL: What exactly do you think we are planning to do here?
JANEWAY: I assume you're going to sabotage the plant, probably by detonating some kind of device.
MAKULL: We're not stupid enough to blow up anything here.
JANEWAY: That may be true, but something will go wrong.
MAKULL: Nothing is going to go wrong unless you fire that weapon near a polaric conduit. For everyone's safety, I suggest you put it down.
JANEWAY: Give me the bag.
JANEWAY: All right then, we'll wait.

[Ruined corridor]
CHAKOTAY: If Kes is right, the Captain was here at the moment the explosion occurred. Is there anyway to break through subspace a few minutes before the detonation?
KIM: If the widest point of the fracture represents the time of the explosion, couldn't we open a hole just before the widest point?
TORRES: There's no way we could pin-point the exact time we'd be penetrating but we could make an educated guess.
TUVOK: I feel it is my duty to point out there is absolutely no logical reason to believe Kes is correct. However, since I have no alternative course of action to recommend at this time, I suggest we proceed.
TORRES: Commander?

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: What time is it?
TERLA: Four oh one rotations plus twenty one.
JANEWAY: We'll just wait until twenty three.
MAKULL: Twenty three? What's the importance of twenty three? Oh, this is all about the alleged time of our self-annihilation. All right, let's just see if we can all get through the next
TERLA: What's going on?
JANEWAY: They're cutting through subspace.
MAKULL: My god, it's going to intersect with the conduit wall!
JANEWAY: Our own rescue attempt. That's what sets it off! My weapon may be able to seal that hole. It's our only chance.

[Ruined corridor]
TORRES: I'm getting nadion particle resistance from the other side.
KIM: Increasing generator to maximum output. The generator's overloading.
TORRES: I don't understand. It's not working. We're not penetrating the fracture.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Harry, Harry, Harry, Harry, Harry. You really think she's going to wait for you?
KIM: I hope so.
PARIS: Let her go. Let her have a husband and kids and a good life, while you and I have the Delany sisters.
KIM: I told you, I need to run a transtator diagnostic.
PARIS: You need to run a self-diagnostic. Look, they come as a pair. It's a double date or no date. Come on. I told them all about you.
KIM: What did you tell them about me?
PARIS: Well, for one thing, how you broke the single pilot speed record at the Academy.
KIM: Record? I never broke any record!
PARIS: And who are they going to check it with?
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Yes, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: We've identified an M-class planet in the red dwarf system we're approaching. Do you want to change course to investigate?
JANEWAY: Are you familiar with any intelligent life forms in this system, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: Familiar. Not exactly familiar. Considerably less than familiar, actually.
NEELIX: Kes, what are you doing here?
KES: I had to know.
NEELIX: Know? Know what?
KES: The planet. Everyone was killed. There was this terrible explosion.
NEELIX: You had a bad dream.
KES: No, it was more than a dream.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, any indications of trouble on that M-class planet?
TUVOK: Negative, Captain.
JANEWAY: Is it populated?
TUVOK: Sensors do show humanoid life. There is no satellite system and no indications of space craft in the vicinity. It appears to be a pre-warp civilization.
JANEWAY: Which means, as a policy, we don't involve ourselves in their affairs.
NEELIX: Of course. A most enlightened philosophy. Come on, Kes.
KES: I'm sorry. Captain, is it possible to see this planet on the view screen?
JANEWAY: There it is.
KES: Thank you.
PARIS: Come on. Come on. Just go.
JANEWAY: Enter the planet's co-ordinates into the log and maintain present heading, Commander, warp six.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48532.4. We're on our way to a rogue planetoid which Mister Neelix tells us is an extremely rich source of raw dilithium. If he's right, this could go a long way toward easing our power shortage.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Assuming we do find dilithium on this planetoid, we're going to need a refining facility on the ship to process it.
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant Torres has already asked permission to start modifications to the auxiliary impulse reactor. It could be converted into a crude dilithium refinery.
JANEWAY: The impulse reactor? Sometimes I think B'Elanna goes out of her way to find solutions that ignore Starfleet procedures.
CHAKOTAY: Her arguments are quite convincing. She thinks it can be done safely.
JANEWAY: I'm sure it can. Tell her I want regular reports on her progress every step of the way. Are you sure you won't join me for breakfast? I was thinking of having eggs Benedict with asparagus, strawberries and cream.
CHAKOTAY: Ah.
JANEWAY: I said I was thinking about it. I'm actually having ration pack number five. Stewed tomatoes with dehydrated eggs.
CHAKOTAY: Mmm. Sounds delicious, but I've already had my vacuum-packed oatmeal this morning.
JANEWAY: I'll see you on the bridge.

[Mess hall - kitchen]
NEELIX: Hope you enjoy it.
JANEWAY: What is going on here?
NEELIX: Captain, you caught me by surprise.
JANEWAY: I could say the same thing. What are you doing?
NEELIX: Well, I know how you and the other senior officers have been, excuse me, disappointed with the rations lately, so I thought I'd use a few of the vegetables from the hydroponics bay and whip up a little breakfast.
JANEWAY: You have turned this into a galley?
NEELIX: It wasn't easy. I had to completely re-route the mess hall power conduits and scrounge a lot of supplies from all over the ship, but that's my specialty, making something out of nothing. I know it doesn't look like much now, but in a few days you'll swear there'd been a galley here for years. Be careful, that one is a little spicy.
JANEWAY: Neelix, who approved this?
NEELIX: Ah, well, no one.
JANEWAY: Well, you might have asked me first. This used to be my private dining room.
NEELIX: Your? Your dining room?
JANEWAY: If you had checked the ship's directory, you would have noticed that cabin one two five alpha deck two is designated as the Captain's private dining room.
NEELIX: Oh! Then I guess that you'll be wanting me to move all of this stuff out of your way.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We're approaching the rogue planetoid, Captain.
JANEWAY: On my way. I want you to come with me. We will deal with this later.
NEELIX: Ensign Parsons, would you mind keeping an eye on things until I get back and er, rotate the darvot fritters every ten minutes until they turn a deep chartreuse. And remember one, one to a customer.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What have you found?
KIM: We're picking up definite dilithium signatures, Captain. The strongest readings are originating from ten to twenty kilometers inside the planetoid.
TORRES: It also looks like there's a series of subterranean caves with an oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere.
CHAKOTAY: Class M. It'll make mining a lot easier if we can go in there without environmental suits.
JANEWAY: How much dilithium are we talking about?
TORRES: It's hard to get a precise reading. It could be anywhere from five hundred to one thousand metric tons.
NEELIX: Just as I said. I bet there are a few Yallitaian engineers who'd give all three of their spinal columns to know where this planet is.
JANEWAY: Commander, take an away team down into those caves and do a preliminary geological analysis. Lieutenant, you'd better get your dilithium refinery on-line.
TORRES: It'll be ready to go in three days.
CHAKOTAY: Ensign Kim.
CHAKOTAY: Where are you going?
NEELIX: With you. I've been studying my tricorder operations manual. Lieutenant Torres has brought me up to date on dilithium geophysics. I've been preparing for this mission all week.
JANEWAY: Very well, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: I think you'll find me extremely helpful, Commander. I remember the first time I flew past this planet, it was about three years ago
KIM: Deck four.

[Planetoid]
CHAKOTAY: It looks like there are several large deposits in this general vicinity. Let's split up and begin taking geological scans. Keep your comm. channels open at all times and don't wander too far. Stay within a fifty meter radius of this position.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Kim.
KIM (voiceover): Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY: I'm still picking up dilithium signatures but there are no dilithium formations here. Have you found anything yet?

[Tunnel 2]
KIM: I'm running a geo-strato analysis of the rock in this vicinity. So far there's no indication of any dilithium.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Keep looking.

[Tunnel 3]
NEELIX: Neelix to Commander Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
NEELIX: I think I've found something. A large cavern approximately twenty meters from my position. I'm reading a huge dilithium formation there.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Don't go any further

[Tunnel]
CHAKOTAY: Neelix. Stay within the search radius. I'll be with you in a minute.

[Cavern]
NEELIX: But it's right here. I'm in the cavern now, Commander, but I don't understand this.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Let me guess, nothing there.
NEELIX: Not so much as a sliver of dilithium, and yet according to my readings I should be surrounded by it.
CHAKOTAY: All right, I've had enough

[Tunnel]
CHAKOTAY: Of this. Kim, Neelix, we're heading back to the ship.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Rendezvous at the
NEELIX: Wait a minute. I'm getting unusual readings from this rock face. Traces of organic energy. Looks like a bio-electrical signature. I think there's something alive down here. It's about two meters into this rock face.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Neelix, I said get back here! Neelix, did you hear what I said?
NEELIX: Just one minute, Commander.
NEELIX: Hello? Is there someone there? Hello? I know there's somebody.

[Tunnel 3]
CHAKOTAY: Neelix, what's wrong? Neelix! Kim!

[Tunnel 2]
KIM: I'm on my way sir.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: I can't be certain, but I think he's going into shock. Chakotay to Voyager, medical emergency. Beam us directly to sickbay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Get the blood-gas infuser.
CHAKOTAY: The what?
EMH: Equipment storage unit two, second shelf on the left. Now!
EMH: Hold him still.
KIM: What's happening, Doctor?
EMH: He's going into a coma.
EMH: The infuser will keep his oxygen levels stable for the next hour or so, but after that he'll die. His lungs have been removed.
CHAKOTAY: By the time we got to him he was unconscious.
JANEWAY: How could anyone remove his organs so quickly?
CHAKOTAY: The Doctor says whoever did this used some kind of transporter to beam the lungs directly out of his body.
KES: What happened?
JANEWAY: It appears that Neelix was attacked. We don't know how it happened, but someone has surgically removed his lungs.
JANEWAY: Did you find any evidence of the life sign that Neelix reported?
CHAKOTAY: No.
KIM: Captain, I've analyzed the sensor logs from Neelix's tricorder. The bio-scanner picked up a single class three humanoid organism.
EMH: The blood gas infuser will keep him alive for another forty seven minutes. The only chance for his survival I see at the moment is to get his own lungs back.
JANEWAY: Can't we fit him with a pair of artificial lungs?
EMH: His respiratory system is directly linked to multiple points along his spinal column. It's too complex to replicate. I may be able to surgically reattach the organs if we get them back. In the meantime I'll have to search for other options.
JANEWAY: Commander, I'm taking an away team back to the planet. You're in charge until we return. Inform Mister Tuvok I want three armed security detachments to accompany us. Issue type three phasers.
EMH: Mister Paris, did they teach you how to run a respiratory series in your bio-chemistry classes at the Academy?
PARIS: No, I'm afraid they didn't.
EMH: Fine, I'll run it myself. Get me a pulmonary scanner. I'm going to have to ask you to leave.
KES: I'm not leaving.
EMH: All right, just keep out of the way.

[Cavern]
KIM: Here it is. This is where Neelix was standing when he was attacked. According to his tricorder log he was scanning this rock face when he detected the life sign.
JANEWAY: Neelix said there was a life sign two meters behind this wall, but my tricorder says there's nothing but solid rock for another fifteen meters.
KIM: Sounds like our tricorders aren't giving us the real picture behind what's going on here.
JANEWAY: Wait a minute. The rock is warmer here.
KIM: You're right, Captain. There's a two degree differential in this section of the wall.
TUVOK: There are no natural geological phenomena that could be creating this heat source.
JANEWAY: Let's make a little heat of our own.
TUVOK: There was a highly sophisticated forcefield in place.
JANEWAY: There's a chamber down this corridor.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: Doc, I think his cellular toxicity level is rising.
EMH: It's up to thirty two percent. Lets see if we can stabilize those levels. Get me a cytoplasmic stimulator.
PARIS: We don't have one.
EMH: Then replicate one. The design schematics are in the ship's medical database.
PARIS: Right.
EMH: The man drives a seven hundred thousand ton starship so somebody thinks he'd make a good medic.
KES: I can survive with one lung, can't I? What if I donated a lung to Neelix?
EMH: A transplant is not an option. No one on board is a compatible match for a Talaxian.
EMH: We're going to need a completely new way to oxygenate his blood supply and relay neuro-electrical impulses. Our replicators can't produce compatible artificial organs for him, but maybe there's a way to mimic their functions and give us direct control of his respiratory system. Computer, is there an identification matrix on Mister Neelix from the last time he used the transporter?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
EMH: Transfer it to console four.
PARIS: What are you doing?
EMH: I'm using the transporter matrix to get exact specifications for Neelix's lungs.
PARIS: I thought you just said we can't replicate his lungs.
EMH: We can't. But if I can reconfigure my emitter array I might be able to create a pair of holographic lungs for Mister Neelix.
PARIS: Holographic lungs?
EMH: If it's successful, we can precisely control his pulmonary functions to allow normal breathing.
PARIS: But a hologram is just a projection of light held in a magnetic containment field. There's no real matter involved.
EMH: Now, you hit me.
EMH: The magnetic containment field that creates the illusion of my body can be modulated to allow matter to pass through it or be stopped. I might be able to modulate the holographic lungs in the same way, allowing oxygen and carbon dioxide to pass from the lungs to the blood stream.
KES: I want to know what this means. What are you going to do to him?
EMH: There's no time to explain the exact procedure to you right now.
KES: Oh, you'll make the time, because I'm not going to let you perform any experimental surgery on Neelix until I know exactly what you're doing and what the risks are.
EMH: The risk is that it won't work, and if it doesn't he'll die. But it is his only immediate chance for survival. If he does survive, he'll have to be held motionless in an isotropic restraint. The lungs need to be perfectly aligned to his internal physiology. The computer won't be able to compensate for any body movement whatsoever.
KES: How long will he have to stay like that?
EMH: For the rest of his life, unless the holo-lungs can be replaced by his original organs. And he will never be able to leave the holographic environment of this room. The holo-lungs would disappear the moment he went out the door.
PARIS: Kes, I know it sounds pretty grim, but it's better than losing him completely. This way, he'll still be alive, and maybe we can find a better solution somewhere down the road. What do you think Neelix would want?
KES: I'm not sure. But I do know that I want him to live.

[Chamber]
TUVOK: This room is the source of the dilithium signature we detected earlier. The power systems here are running on an unusual dilithium matrix.
KIM: So there are actually no dilithium deposits on this planet.
TUVOK: It would appear not.
KIM: Are these organs?
JANEWAY: This looks like some sort of storage facility.
TUVOK: I would say you are correct, Captain. This appears to be a biological repository.
JANEWAY: Any sign of Neelix's lungs?
TUVOK: Negative. There is however a Kazon liver, and although I cannot identify the other organs on display here I would say they bear a striking similarity to pulmonary organs, epidermal tissue, ocular nerve fiber
JANEWAY: Save the cataloging for later, Tuvok, according to my tricorder there was a lifeform in this room less than ten minutes ago.
KIM: Captain.
JANEWAY: Open it. One life sign twenty meters ahead. Let's go.

[Tunnel]
TUVOK: They have erected a forcefield with a rotating phase modulation. We will not be able to disrupt it.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Voyager to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We've just picked

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Up an alien ship leaving the planet.
JANEWAY: Tractor them

[Tunnel]
JANEWAY: Commander.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Sorry, Captain. They went into warp too quickly.
JANEWAY: Beam us back. As soon as we're aboard lay in a course for pursuit.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Maximum warp.
CHAKOTAY: Aye Captain.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: Okay. The isotropic restraint is activated. He won't be able to move more than two microns in any direction.
EMH: One micron would be preferable, but I suppose it'll have to do. Initiating the holographic emitter array.
PARIS: His cellular toxicity is rising. Eight two percent. Eighty six percent.
EMH: Computer, activate program Neelix One. Deactivate the infuser.
PARIS: It's offline.
EMH: Here we go.
PARIS: Ninety percent. Ninety five percent.
PARIS: Toxicity returning to normal.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We are pursuing the alien ship from the moon. They are not responding to hails and it appears that our two ships are evenly matched for speed.

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: Holographic lungs?
EMH: Yes, and they're working perfectly, if I do say so myself. Try to breath normally.
NEELIX: How long can I live like this?
EMH: I don't know. This is an unprecedented medical procedure. We will be closely monitoring your condition.
NEELIX: When do I get out of this restraint?
EMH: Unless Captain Janeway is successful in retrieving your original lungs, you'll have to stay in the isotropic restraint indefinitely.
NEELIX: Indefinitely? You mean I could be in here the rest of my life.
EMH: Yes.
KES: But we're trying to find the aliens that did this to you. The Captain is doing everything she can.
NEELIX: Well, if I'm going to be in here a while, now's as good a time as any to tell you. Your ceiling is hideous.
EMH: I didn't design the room, I just work here.
NEELIX: Something with a bit of color would help. Maybe a nice tapestry or a painting. Could you dim the lights a little?
EMH: I'm a doctor, Mister Neelix, not a decorator. Perhaps you would be willing to accommodate his esthetic needs.
NEELIX: And some music would be nice. Or better yet, are you programmed to sing?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Paris. Please report to the bridge.
PARIS: I'm on my way, Captain. You know where I am if you need me.
KES: Thanks for everything.
NEELIX: Oh, fine. I have a little accident, I lose a pair of lungs, and the next thing I know Paris is swooping in like a Rectillian vulture.
KES: What are you talking about?
NEELIX: Didn't you hear the way that he said that? I'll be on the bridge if you need me. If you need me.
KES: Neelix
NEELIX: Why doesn't he just pull the plug on the holographic emitter and get it over with. Get me out of the way so he can have you all to himself.
KES: Neelix, you're over-reacting. Tom's been very supportive.
NEELIX: Ah, so it's Tom now, is it?
KES: You really have nothing to worry about. We're friends, that's all.
NEELIX: It's not you I'm worried about. It's him. He's just one big hormone walking around the ship. Don't you see the way that he looks at you?
KES: This is ridiculous. I'm not going to argue with you about something that exists only in your imagination. I know you, Neelix, and I know you're afraid. I just want you to know that no matter what happens, I'll be here with you.
NEELIX: Kes, I could be in here a very long time. You need to go on with your life. Don't worry about me.
KES: Neelix
NEELIX: You should just let me die.
KES: Stop that. We're going to get through this together.
EMH: Visiting hours are over. He needs rest.
KES: When can I come back?
EMH: Seventeen hundred hours. Not a minute before.
KES: I'll see you then.
EMH: Don't worry, I'm not going to kiss you, I'm only adjusting the restraint.
NEELIX: I'll try to contain my disappointment.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Captain! We've completed our diagnostic on the alien device. It appears to be more than a weapon. It's also a very sophisticated medical scanner and surgical instrument.
TUVOK: From what we can tell, it uses a neural resonator to stun the victim, while a quantum imaging begins a microcellular analysis of the entire body.
TORRES: The amount of information this thing can gather puts a tricorder to shame. You fire this at someone, you learn everything about their anatomy, right down to their DNA sequencing.
JANEWAY: So it sounds like we're dealing with aliens who've developed a technology specifically designed to locate and extract organs from other beings. Why?
CHAKOTAY: Captain! The alien ship has dropped out of warp. It's approaching a large asteroid.
JANEWAY: On screen.
PARIS: It's entered the asteroid, Captain.
JANEWAY: Hold position here. Mister Kim?
KIM: I can't scan the interior. The surface stratum is made up of some sort of neutronium alloy. It doesn't look like a natural formation.
CHAKOTAY: Are you saying some one built this asteroid?
KIM: It's possible.
JANEWAY: Any sign of weapons or defense systems?
TUVOK: Negative.
PARIS: I think I've located where the alien ship entered. There's an open crater on the limb of the asteroid.
CHAKOTAY: Let's see it.
PARIS: The ion trail from the alien ship leads directly inside.
JANEWAY: How large is that crater?
PARIS: Two hundred meters in diameter.
TUVOK: Captain, may I suggest you consider carefully what you are about to do.
JANEWAY: How do you know what I'm about to do?
TUVOK: I could describe to you in detail the psychological observations I have made about you over the past four years which lead me to conclude you are about to take this ship inside the asteroid. But suffice it to say, I know you quite well.
JANEWAY: One of these days I'm going to surprise you, Tuvok, but not today. I've already considered other options. If Neelix has any chance of surviving, we have to act fast. Red alert. Mister Paris, lay in a course.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, maximum shields. Phasers at the ready.
PARIS: Captain, I'm reducing power to the aft thrusters only. This passageway is getting a little too narrow for my taste.
JANEWAY: Use your discretion, Mister Paris. Any sign of the vessel, Lieutenant?
TUVOK: We are still following the ion trail, but electro-magnetic interference is limiting our sensor range. I am only able to scan five hundred meters ahead of us.
CHAKOTAY: Are there any indications we're being scanned or probed, Mister Kim?
KIM: Not yet.

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: Doctor? Doctor, I require your assistance.
EMH: What is it, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: Please, it's urgent.
EMH: Yes?
NEELIX: I have an itch
EMH: An itch.
NEELIX: Just above my left eyebrow.
NEELIX: A little higher. Ah. Thank you.
EMH: You're quite welcome.
NEELIX: Doctor, wait, don't leave.
EMH: I'm not leaving, Mister Neelix, I'm simply going back to work.
NEELIX: I can't see you over there. I feel like I'm all alone.
EMH: You are all alone. I'm a holographic projection. A projection with a lot of work to do, I might add.
NEELIX: That's very amusing, Doctor. But, I'm really starting to feel a little trapped in here. A little claustrophobic, maybe. I'm not sure what to do.
EMH: There's nothing you can do except lie there and be quiet.
NEELIX: I'm going to lie here for the rest of my life, aren't I? Just staring up at the ceiling. I'm not sure I can take that. I really need to get out of this restraint. Doctor, I want you to let me out of this thing right now.
EMH: You know that's impossible.
NEELIX: I'm the patient, I know what my rights are. I want to be released from this restraint immediately. Immediately!
EMH: Mister Neelix, you are alive. You are breathing and for the moment your condition is stable. That is more than most people can say in your situation. Now it is critical to your recovery that you not subject yourself to any additional stress. Try to calm down.
NEELIX: Don't tell me to calm down! You're not the one trapped in a restraining field with holo, holo-lungs. I don't think they're working. I can't, can't get enough oxygen. There's something wrong.
EMH: You're hyperventilating. Try to take slow, natural breaths.
NEELIX: I can't. I'm dying. Let me out of here. Help me. Help me.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: You're doing fine, Mister Paris. Just fine.
PARIS: Thanks, Captain.
TUVOK: Sensors detect a large chamber ahead.
CHAKOTAY: What the hell?
KIM: We appear to be seeing Voyager and the alien ship reflecting off the walls of the chamber.
JANEWAY: Can you determine which ship is the real one?
TUVOK: No, Captain. The walls are emanating severe electro-magnetic interference. I cannot scan them directly.
JANEWAY: It's like trying to move through a hall of mirrors. You never know when you're going to walk into the glass.
PARIS: I'm still picking up the alien's ion trail. Maybe we should follow that.
CHAKOTAY: He might have left a fake ion trail to lure us in here. It could lead us right into one of those walls.
JANEWAY: That's a chance we're going to have to take. Tuvok, extend the deflectors to maximum range. If we do run into something, it'll give us an extra margin of error. Follow the ion trail, Mister Paris, slowly. Mister Kim, continuous scans.
KIM: Aye, Captain.

[Doctor's office]
KES: I'll do what I can to reassure him, Doctor.
EMH: Good. If you don't mind I'd like you to remain in sickbay so you're here when he wakes up.
KES: Of course. Are you all right?
EMH: Me?
KES: You seem agitated about something.
EMH: Of course I'm agitated. This entire situation is getting out of control.
KES: You mean Neelix.
EMH: First they tell me there's no doctor, so I have to be on call twenty four hours a day. And then they tell me there are no nurses so I have no one to assist me.
KES: I thought Tom Paris was assigned to you.
EMH: Like I said, no one to assist me. And now I have a patient with severe and possibly long term emotional problems and there's no counselor on board. I am an emergency medical supplement. A supplement, that's all. I wasn't programmed for any of this. It's just unacceptable.
KES: I don't know anything about holographic engineering, but if you want my opinion, you haven't been acceptable, you've been remarkable.
EMH: I've only done what the program allows me to.
KES: Give yourself some credit. You saved his life. You did, not some program.
EMH: It may seem that way to you.
KES: That's exactly how it seems.
EMH: You're very kind.
KES: How does a real doctor learn to deal with patient's emotional problems anyway?
EMH: They learn from experience.
KES: Aren't you capable of learning?
EMH: I have the capacity to accumulate and process data, yes.
KES: Then I guess you'll just have to learn like the rest of us.
EMH: Have you ever considered a career in medicine? Neelix is starting to regain consciousness.

[Engineering]
SESKA: Lieutenant, I'm picking up a minor power fluctuation in the warp core.
TORRES: Compensate with the KLS stabilizer.
SESKA: No effect. In fact, the power loss is starting to accelerate.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Torres, what's going on down there?
TORRES: Some kind of power drain. I can't localize it but we're losing power at the rate of

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): Seven percent per minute.
KIM: The power drain is coming from somewhere in this chamber, Captain. It's some kind of dampening field. It's bleeding energy directly from the warp nacelles.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, shut down the warp core.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go to emergency power.
TORRES: No effect, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Keep me informed.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Bridge out. Can you pinpoint the source of the dampening field?
KIM: It appears to be coming from two one seven mark zero one five. Distance, five hundred and forty seven meters.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, what would happen if we locked phasers and fired at the source.
TUVOK: The walls of this chamber reflect directed energy. The phaser beam would ricochet along an unpredictable path, possibly impacting our ship in the process.
JANEWAY: All right, we won't try that.
CHAKOTAY: Well, maybe we should. Tuvok, what would happen if we reduced the phaser power level to a minimum setting and sent out a continuous beam.
TUVOK: The phaser would continue to reflect off the bulkheads until it encountered a non-reflective material.
CHAKOTAY: Until it encountered a non-reflective material, like the real alien ship.
JANEWAY: So we could use the phasers like a searchlight, scan the interior of the station until we find the ship.
CHAKOTAY: Exactly.
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: Adjusting phaser azimuth to fifteen degrees.
KIM: Wait a minute. I think I've found the real ship.
JANEWAY: On screen.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, bring us within transporter range of that ship.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
KIM: Picking up two life signs.
TUVOK: They are powering engines.
JANEWAY: Bridge to transporter room three. Lock onto those two life signs and beam them aboard.
TUVOK: Security, meet me in transporter room three.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye sir.

[Transporter room 3]
JANEWAY: You're on the Starship Voyager. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway of the United Federation of Planets.
DERETH: I'm Dereth, of the Vidiian Sodality.
JANEWAY: You attacked one of our crewmembers and you have lured us into this asteroid. Why?
DERETH: We are gathering replacement organs and suitable bio-matter. It is the only way we have to fight the phage.
JANEWAY: A virus? Some kind of disease?
MOTURA: Yes, it attacked our people over two millennia ago. It consumes our bodies, destroys our genetic codes and cellular structures.
JANEWAY: So you harvest the bodies of other beings to replace your own tissues as they're consumed by this phage?
MOTURA: Our immuno-technology cannot keep up. The phage adapts. It resists all attempts to destroy it. Our society has been ravaged. Thousands die each day. There is no other way for us to survive.
JANEWAY: I have a great sympathy for what your race has endured, but I cannot allow you to keep the organs you removed from one of our crew members. We need them back immediately.
DERETH: I'm afraid that isn't possible. I have already bio-chemically altered the air-breathing organs and grafted them into Motura's body. They are a part of him now.
MOTURA: He is my honatta. His task is to find the organs I need for survival. We, we try to extract them from the dead
DERETH: But sometimes, when the need is immediate, more aggressive actions are required.
JANEWAY: So now I am left with the same choice you made. Whether to commit murder to save a life, or to allow my own crewman to die while you breath air through his lungs.
MOTURA: It must be impossible for you to understand how any civilized people could come to this. Before the phage began, we were known as educators and explorers, a people whose greatest achievements were artistic. I myself am a sculptor of note on my world. All I can say is that when your entire existence is at stake
DERETH: You don't have to explain yourself, Motura.
MOTURA: If the consequence of this act is a death sentence, so be it. At least it will put an end to my suffering.
JANEWAY: I can't begin to understand what your people have gone through. They may have found a way to ignore the moral implications of what you are doing, but I have no such luxury. I don't have the freedom to kill you to save another. My culture finds that to be a reprehensible and entirely unacceptable act. If we were closer to home I would lock you up and turn you over to my authorities for trial, but I don't even have that ability here, and I am not prepared to carry you forever in our brig. So I see no other alternative but to let you go. Take a message to your people. If I ever encounter your kind again, I will do whatever is necessary to protect my people from this harvesting of yours. Any aggressive actions against this ship or it's crew will be met by the deadliest force. Is that clear?
DERETH: Quite.
MOTURA: Wait. I want to see this crewman of yours.
DERETH: That can serve no useful purpose.
MOTURA: Maybe it can. Our medical technologies may be superior to theirs.
JANEWAY: I can tell you, from what we've observed of them, that they are considerably superior.
MOTURA: She spared my life. Our lives. We owe it to them to see if there's anything we can do to help him.
JANEWAY: I'll take you to him.

[Sickbay]
DERETH: His simulated organs are primitive. It's amazing he is still alive.
DERETH: This is set to scan only.
TUVOK: Proceed, carefully. (Dereth scans Tuvok, then Kes, Janeway, a security guard, then the EMH.)
DERETH: Strange. According to my readings, you are not here.
EMH: Believe me, I wish I weren't.
DERETH: The rest of you are healthy. You are compatible for organ transplant.
EMH: Wait a minute. We've already considered this. Talaxian physiology is different from that of anyone else on this ship. His immune system would reject their lungs immediately.
DERETH: Your surgical knowledge is inferior. We will simply adapt his immunogenicity. It won't be a problem. Which of you will donate a lung?
KES: Me.
NEELIX: No, absolutely not. It's too dangerous. Let someone else do it.
KES: No, I want to do it, Neelix. I'm willing to take the risk. Besides, you've done so much for me, let me give you something this once. Just for once
NEELIX: All right.
JANEWAY: I look forward to sampling your cooking, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: You mean I can keep my kitchen?
JANEWAY: Well, at least until we get the replicators back online.
NEELIX: Thank you, Captain. And Captain? I'll see you at breakfast.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The aliens have successfully transplanted one of Kes' lungs into Neelix. The dampening field has been deactivated, and I have allowed them to beam back to their vessel. We are resuming a course home.

[Sickbay]
EMH: It's all right. The operation was a success. Neelix is asleep and breathing on his own now. With your lung.
KES: I feel a little light-headed.
EMH: That will pass. You'll soon adapt to diminished lung capacity. I spoke to the Captain about you. She's given me permission to begin training you as a medical assistant. You'll be a back-up for Mister Paris, or possibly a replacement. That is, assuming you're interested.
KES: Of course I'm interested. When do we start?
EMH: We'll begin your lessons as soon as you've fully recovered.
KES: Thank you, Doctor.
EMH: Thank you. You've given me a lot to think about.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Personal log, Stardate 48546.2. Our journey home is several weeks old now, and I have begun to notice in my crew and in myself, a subtle change as the reality of our situation settles in. Here in the Delta Quadrant, we are virtually the entire family of man. We are more than a crew and I must find a way to be more than a captain to these people, but it's not clear to me exactly how to begin.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): At the Academy, we are taught that a captain is expected to maintain a certain distance. Until now, I've always been comfortable with that distance.
TORRES: Captain, I didn't realize there was an inspection scheduled.
JANEWAY: Not an inspection, Lieutenant. A stroll.
TORRES: We should have the warp drive up and running by oh nine hundred hours. Recalibrating the reactant injectors is the only thing we have left to do.
JANEWAY: Carry on.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Maybe this is just the way it works. Maybe the distance is necessary. Maybe more than ever now, they need me to be larger than life.

[Mess Hall]
JANEWAY (voiceover): I only wish I felt larger than life. Computer, delete last sentence.
JANEWAY: Gentlemen. As you were. So, has Neelix concocted anything interesting this morning?
KIM: There's an ancient Chinese curse, Captain. May you live in interesting times. Mealtime is always interesting now that Neelix is in the kitchen.
JANEWAY: We shouldn't judge him too harshly. He is helping us conserve replicator energy.
PARIS: And I'm sure the gastrointestinal problems will go away as soon as our systems get used to his, er, gourmet touch.
JANEWAY: Well, I'll see you at duty call.
KIM: We should've asked her to join us.
PARIS: Ensigns don't invite captains to sit down.
KIM: Why not?
PARIS: Because they don't.
KIM: Well, what's wrong with showing a little courtesy?
PARIS: Captains don't want courtesy, they want respect. That's why they don't get chummy with the lower ranks.
KIM: Well, who else is she supposed to get chummy with out here? There aren't many other captains and admirals for her to talk to.
PARIS: If she wants to sit with us, she'll ask us to join her. That's the way it's done.
KIM: I think you're working from an old rule book, Paris.
JANEWAY: Neelix?

[Kitchen]
NEELIX: Captain! May I say, you look beautiful this morning. Is that a new color lipstick?
JANEWAY: No. No, it's the same color I always wear.
NEELIX: Well, perhaps it's just the way the glow of the food heater lamps hit you but you look wonderful. Not to suggest you don't always look wonderful.
JANEWAY: Neelix. Do we have any coffee left?
NEELIX: No, but we have something even better.
JANEWAY: I don't want something even better. I want coffee.
NEELIX: It's made from a proteinaceous seed I discovered on an expedition
JANEWAY: Never mind. I'll use one of my replicator rations for coffee.
NEELIX: That would not be appropriate, Captain.
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon?
NEELIX: You need to set an example for the crew.
JANEWAY: Well, thank you for reminding me.
NEELIX: You're welcome. After all, if you want the crew to begin to accept natural food alternatives instead of futher depleting our energy reserves, you need to encourage them by your own choices, don't you?
JANEWAY: Fine. Give me your even better than coffee substitute.
NEELIX: And how about some Takar loggerhead eggs with that this morning?
JANEWAY: Just coffee.
NEELIX: It's a tiny bit richer blend than you're used to, but you'll learn to love it.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Bridge to Janeway.
JANEWAY: On my way. Janeway out. Tomorrow maybe.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Yes, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: There was no need for you to come to the bridge, Captain.
JANEWAY: Yes, there was.
CHAKOTAY: I just wanted to alert you to a nebula we've picked up on long range sensors.
JANEWAY: Put it on screen. Magnify.
TUVOK: There are unusually high levels of omicron particles within this nebula, Captain.
JANEWAY: Are you thinking we could collect these omicron particles to provide an additional antimatter reserve, Lieutenant?
TUVOK: Precisely.
JANEWAY: Senior bridge officers, report for duty. Commander, set a new course. There's coffee in that nebula.
JANEWAY: Exploring this nebula should raise some spirits around here, don't you think, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: No way to go but up.
JANEWAY: You're closer to the crew than I am. How bad is it?
CHAKOTAY: There's a nuanka, a period of mourning, that everyone's going through. It's a natural reaction.
JANEWAY: I'm worried about them. I wish we had a counselor on board, but the nature of our mission didn't require one.
CHAKOTAY: We talk to animals. It's a Native American tradition.
JANEWAY: Animals?
CHAKOTAY: Our own counselors. We're taught that an animal guide accompanies us through life. Basically, it's what Carl Jung thought he invented when he came up with his active imagination technique in 1932, but we've been doing pretty much the same thing for centuries.
JANEWAY: Is there a different animal guide for everyone?
CHAKOTAY: Actually, yes.
JANEWAY: Let me guess. Yours is a bear.
CHAKOTAY: Why do you say that?
JANEWAY: You strike me as the bear type.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you. The bear is a very powerful animal. It has great pokattah. But he's not my animal guide. The creature that guides us doesn't define who we are. It merely chooses to be with us.
JANEWAY: Okay. If not a bear, then what?
CHAKOTAY: I can't tell you that. It would offend my animal guide if I spoke its name.
JANEWAY: But he guides you well?
CHAKOTAY: Actually, it's a female. But yes, she usually guides me very well.
JANEWAY: Can one just choose their own animal guide?
CHAKOTAY: It's not quite that simple.
PARIS: Captain. We're approaching the perimeter of the nebula.
JANEWAY: Slow to one third impulse.
CHAKOTAY: If you're interested, I'll be glad to teach you how to contact your animal guide.
JANEWAY: You've got a date. Analysis, Mister Kim.
KIM: Seven AU's in diameter. Sensors are picking up intermittent gamma and thermal emissions. Nothing our shields can't handle.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, any problems for navigation?
PARIS: I'm showing mostly hydrogen, helium and hydroxyl radicals. Some local dust nodules. I don't see them giving us any trouble.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, can you find us a rich deposit of omicron particles in there?
TUVOK: A significant concentration appears to exist approximately sixty four million kilometers inside the perimeter.
JANEWAY: Set coordinates.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Engines at one quarter impulse. Engage.
KIM: I've never seen anything like it.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Kim. Mister Kim, that is a comment we'd prefer not to hear from a senior officer on the Bridge. It makes the junior officers nervous.
KIM: Yes, sir.
PARIS: Density has increased to forty two percent.
JANEWAY: Cause?
PARIS: Not sure. We seem to be drawing some interstellar dust toward us.
JANEWAY: Engineering, could the magnetic field from our impulse engines be attracting this dust?

[Engineering]
TORRES: It's a good possibility, Captain. I'm showing the dust with a return force ratio of four to one. Recommend we shut down impulse and go to thrusters.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Acknowledged. Engage thrusters.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Ahead, slow.
PARIS: Density still increasing. Up by seventy percent now.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: The level of resistance poses no danger to the hull at this time, Captain.
JANEWAY: How far to your omicron particle deposits?
TUVOK: Twelve thousand four hundred kilometers.
JANEWAY: Maintain course and
JANEWAY: Report!
PARIS: We're at a dead stop now.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Shutting down thrusters.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: We seem to have encountered an energy barrier.
JANEWAY: Is it natural or artificial?

[Engineering]
TORRES: We're not reading any directed energy source down here, Captain. My guess is it's a natural phenomenon.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: How far are we from the particles, Lieutenant?
TUVOK: Just over seven thousand kilometers.
JANEWAY: It's conceivable this energy barrier is related to those particles. Mister Kim, if you can get a transporter beam through the barrier
KIM: Can't do it, Captain. The thoron emissions of the barrier would interfere with the transporter signal.
JANEWAY: Miss Torres, do we have enough power to take the ship through the barrier?

[Engineering]
TORRES: The barrier appears to be only fifty meters deep. A four second burst at maximum thrusters ought to do it.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: All right. Maximum shields. Engage full thrusters for four seconds and then drop to one quarter.
PARIS: Acknowledged. Engaging thrusters.
JANEWAY: What do you make of it, Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: I am unable to offer identification, Captain.
KIM: Kim to Tuvok. In other words, you've never seen anything like it. Oh, I promise not to tell the junior officers.
PARIS: Captain, the breach we just make when we penetrated the field? It just closed behind us.

[Mess Hall]
NEELIX: Kes! Now look what she's gotten us into!
KES: Do all nebulas look like that?
NEELIX: I wouldn't know. I'm smart enough to go around nebulas when I encounter them.
KES: These people are natural born explorers, Neelix.
NEELIX: These people are natural born idiots, if you ask me. They don't appreciate what they have here. This ship is the match of any vessel within a hundred light years, and what do they do with it? Well, let's see if we can't find some space anomaly today that might rip it apart!
KES: I don't think the Captain is an idiot. She cares a great deal about her crew.
NEELIX: You don't care a great deal about your crew and introduce them to the specter of death at every opportunity. And I speak as a member of that crew now. I'm not sure I would've wanted you to come along had I known that this is what
KES: I think it's wonderful.
NEELIX: Wonderful?
KES: If I were Captain, I'd open every crack in the universe and peek inside, just like Captain Janeway does.
NEELIX: I don't deny the romantic quality of this sort of casting about. I wouldn't exactly call it wonderful.
NEELIX: Although, it's getting more wonderful by the minute.
KES: I've never kissed anyone inside a nebula before.
NEELIX: What did I tell you?

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Red alert.
CHAKOTAY: Whatever they are, they're passing right through our shields.
JANEWAY: Try reversing the shield polarity. Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: They appear to be made up of a non-reactive material that our sensors do not recognize, Captain.
JANEWAY: Clarify. Are we under attack?
TUVOK: Uncertain. There is no indication of directed fire.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to Bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.

[Engineering]
TORRES: These things are sticking to the hull. And I'm showing a drain on our energy reserves.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: A drain? Why would we be losing energy?
TORRES (voiceover): I'm not sure, Captain. They seem to be drawing it right through the shield grid along the hull.
KIM: We've lost five percent of our energy reserves. Recommend we shut down all non-essential systems.
JANEWAY: Do it.
CHAKOTAY: Reversing shield polarity hasn't had any effect.
KIM: Energy reserves are down eight percent.
JANEWAY: This is not what I had in mind. Mister Paris, take us back through the energy barrier and out of here.
PARIS: Reversing course.
JANEWAY: Full thrusters.
KIM: Thrusters firing.
PARIS: We're not penetrating the energy barrier this time.
TUVOK: Sensors show a build-up of magnesite dust along the outer rim of the barrier.
JANEWAY: Engineering, I need more power.

[Engineering]
TORRES: We can't go back to impulse, Captain. That's how our problem started. Our best chance is to burn the aft thrusters beyond their recommended limits.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Proceed.
TORRES (voiceover): Acknowledged. Accelerating deuterium to rear thrusters.
CHAKOTAY: We have a complement of thirty eight photon torpedoes at our disposal, Captain.
JANEWAY: And no way to replace them after they're gone.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Aft thrusters at one hundred five percent. One hundred fifteen percent.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Barrier still holding. We need something else.
JANEWAY: Give me a two second blast from the forward phaser bank.
TUVOK: Firing phasers. The barrier is undamaged, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Ready a photon.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, assuming we can breach the energy barrier, it's likely to close as fast as the first time.
PARIS: I'll be riding the tail of our torpedo, Captain.
TUVOK: Torpedo is loaded.
JANEWAY: Align coordinates along ship's heading.
TUVOK: Coordinates set.
JANEWAY: Fire.
TUVOK: Fifty thousand kilometers to the perimeter.
PARIS: I'm having trouble navigating through the energy currents. It's as thick as a Toarian ice storm out there.
TUVOK: Thirty five kilometers to perimeter.
KIM: Energy reserves are still falling.
TUVOK: Fifteen thousand kilometers. We've cleared the central mass.
JANEWAY: Stand down red alert. Take us to two thousand kilometers off the perimeter and hold position. Get a sample of that matter off the hull for Lieutenant Torres to analyze. I'd like to know what it was that humbled every defense system on this ship. How much of our energy reserves did we lose, Ensign?
KIM: Eleven percent, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm just going to have to give up coffee. That's all there is to it.

[Kim's quarters]
PARIS: Dark enough for you?
KIM: What?
PARIS: Get up, Harry. Something you've got to see.
KIM: See? How'd you get in here?
PARIS: You'd be surprised the things you learn in prison.

[Corridor]
KIM: MacAllister. James Mooney MacAllister. The guy never slept. He'd be studying his algorithms until dawn and the only way I could get any sleep was to wear a mask.
PARIS: You could've changed roommates.
KIM: Are you kidding? MacAllister got me through fourth year quantum chemistry.
PARIS: Ah.
KIM: Besides, I got used to wearing it. Something about it that reminds me of being in the womb.
PARIS: Harry, in order to be reminded of something, you have to first
KIM: I remember being in my mother's womb.
PARIS: Right.
KIM: I do. So what is it you have to show me?
PARIS: Nothing that's going to compare to that memory of your mother's womb. Computer, activate holodeck program Paris three.

[Sandrine's]
MAN: Hey, it's Tom!
GAUNT GARY: Hey, Tom, how you doing?
PARIS: What do you think, Harry?
KIM: What is it, a French bistro?
PARIS: This is where I spent most of my second semester at the Academy. I chose the Starfleet base outside of Marseilles for my physical training. I always had a thing about the French.
SANDRINE: And the French always had a thing about you, Monsieur Thomas. And with a name like Paris and a face like that, how could anyone resist?
PARIS: Sandrine, this is my friend Harry Kim.
SANDRINE: Oh, enchanté.
PARIS: Sandrine owns the place. It's been in her family over six hundred years.
RICKY: Tommy? It's about time. I've been waiting for you.
PARIS: This is Ricky. I include her in all my holoprograms.
RICKY: Hi.
KIM: Hi.
RICKY: Your friend the gigolo, wouldn't leave me alone.
GIGOLO: It's what I do, Tom. Nothing personal.
PARIS: French father, Daliwakan mother.
SANDRINE: She just sits there and waits for you, huh? Like a little puppy dog?
PARIS: I wouldn't have it any other way.
SANDRINE: Oh, really? I thought you liked your women with a little bite?
RICKY: Everyone knows about your bite, Sandrine. It's when you start sucking blood they get scared.
SANDRINE: Monsieur, can I get you something to drink?
KIM: Just a cup of tea.
PARIS: Harry, this is France. Er, break open a bottle of that '46 Saint Emilion you save behind the bar for me.
KIM: I don't like to drink this late at night. I get an acid heartburn.
PARIS: Harry, it's holographic wine. It doesn't give you acid. Try to get in the mood, huh?
KIM: Sorry.
PARIS: I learned a great deal that semester at the Academy, most of it right here.
SANDRINE: Oui, and most of it from me.
PARIS: I found this place just after my pocket was picked walking by the harbor.
KIM: Somebody picked your pocket? On Earth?
PARIS: Oh, they just do it for tourists. They give it back. Most of the time.
GAUNT GARY: Nine ball in the corner pocket.
PARIS: You see that pool table, Harry? The table at Sandrine's at Marseilles has attracted the world's greatest hustlers throughout the centuries. I thought it might be fun to program in some of the great players to shoot with.
GAUNT GARY: Eight ball in the cross side.
PARIS: Gaunt Gary, Ames Pool Hall, New York City, 1953. They say that he hustled the great Willie Mosconi himself.
KIM: Mosconi? Was he some famous billiard player?
GAUNT GARY: The game is pool, kid. Pool. I don't suppose you'd care to wager a fin on a game or two?
PARIS: Oh, he's not ready for you yet, Gary. Let me teach him a few tricks first.
GAUNT GARY: Watch out for him, kid. He can swallow your wallet without ever losing his smile.
KIM: I'll keep it in mind. What's a fin?
PARIS: I'm not sure. Some old kind of Scandinavian currency. Come on. I'll rack them up, you pick out a cue. Harry, this is my idea of home. My little piece of Earth out here in the Delta Quadrant.
KIM: You shrug it off, or you like to make the rest of us think you're shrugging it off, but you miss it too, don't you?
PARIS: What?
KIM: Home.
PARIS: Your shot, Harry.

[Doctor's office]
TORRES: Computer, activate Emergency Medical Holographic Program.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
TORRES: Why do you always have to say that?
EMH: I can only speculate about my programmer's motives. Perhaps he thought I might be summoned for important reasons.
TORRES: Under the circumstances, don't you think you really ought to change your program?
EMH: Now there's an interesting concept. A hologram that programs himself. What would I do with that ability? Create a family? Raise an army?
TORRES: I know a little about holographic programming. I could probably reprogram you.
EMH: That makes me feel particularly confident.
TORRES: Has anyone ever told you, you have a lousy attitude?
EMH: If you don't like the doctor's attitude, there's a man sitting in a console in the Jupiter Station Holoprogramming Center you can write to. His name is Zimmerman. He looks a lot like me, actually. Now, not that I don't enjoy the repartee, but was there a reason you stopped in?
TORRES: I need a second opinion on this.
EMH: Who gave you the first opinion?
TORRES: I gave it to myself. It's a sample of residue we picked up in a nebula.
EMH: A nebula? What were we doing in a nebula? No, wait, don't tell me. We were investigating. That's all we do around here. Why pretend we're going home at all? All we're going to do is investigate every cubic millimeter of this quadrant, aren't we?
TORRES: The molecules are isolinear. No polycyclic structures, but
EMH: But this is what brought you to me, isn't it? The nucleogenic peptide bonds.
TORRES: Is it some kind of phosopholipid fiber?
EMH: And you were doing so well. No, I suspect it's something far more interesting than that.

[Ready Room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Repair crews have degaussed the hull, Captain.
JANEWAY: Good. Let's plan an oh seven hundred departure. What's this?
CHAKOTAY: My medicine bundle. I've never showed it to anyone before. After what you said this morning, I thought it was important to let you see.
JANEWAY: Will it help me find my animal guide?
CHAKOTAY: Eventually you'll have to assemble your own medicine bundle, but this will allow me to assist you in your quest for a guide.
JANEWAY: Now? Now.
CHAKOTAY: A blackbird's wing. A stone from the river. An akoonah.
JANEWAY: Akoonah?
CHAKOTAY: My ancestors used psychoactive herbs to assist their vision quests. Now they're no longer necessary. Our scientists have found more modern ways to facilitate the search for animal guides. Place your hand on it and concentrate on the stone. A-koo-chee-moy-a. We are far from the sacred places of our grandfathers. We are far from the bones of our people. But perhaps there is one powerful being who will embrace this woman and give her the answers she seeks. Allow your eyes to close. Breath to fuel the light in your belly, and let it expand until the light is everywhere. Prepare yourself to leave this room and this ship, and return to a place where you were the most content and peaceful you have ever been. You can see all around you and hear the sounds of this place.

[Beach]
JANEWAY: I know this place. It's
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): You must not discuss with me what you see, or you will offend your animal guide. As you continue to look around, you will become aware of other life that shares this place with you. It will be the first animal you see. That is the one you will speak to. Do you see an animal?
JANEWAY: Yes.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Speak to it.
JANEWAY: What do I say?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): You know what you want to ask.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. I should've asked the computer for no interruptions. Come in.
JANEWAY: The Commander was introducing me to my animal guide.
TORRES: I hope that you have better luck with yours than I had with mine.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna's the only one I know who tried to kill her animal guide.
TORRES: I'm sorry to interrupt, but the Doctor and I have come up with a rather surprising analysis of the matter left on the hull. It's organic.
JANEWAY: Microscopic life forms from the nebula.
TORRES: That's not what I mean. The samples are clearly organic elements of a much larger life form. It appears, Captain, that this nebula is not a nebula at all.

[Bridge]
EMH (screen): I'm curious, Captain. Exactly what are you looking for?
JANEWAY: I need to know if we did serious harm to this life form.
EMH (screen): Let's see. You ran your ship through it, fired phasers at it and blew a hole in it with a photon torpedo. I'd say it's a pretty good chance that you did some fairly significant
JANEWAY: Computer, mute audio. Isolate that concentration of omicron particles we were tying to get to.
TORRES: That would be right here.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: I'm afraid the concentration of particles is far lower than I originally observed. Furthermore, it appears that many of the particles have now moved outside the energy barrier.
JANEWAY: Is it possible they're leaking out through the breach we made?
TUVOK: That would be a logical conclusion.
JANEWAY: It's also a logical conclusion that all of the phenomena we've encountered were actually this life form's natural defense systems.
CHAKOTAY: The way the barrier was protecting the omicron particles almost suggests we were entering a vital organ.
JANEWAY: So it seems very clear that we've severely hurt an innocent life form. How do we repair the harm we've done?
PARIS: Er, Captain?
JANEWAY: Computer, resume audio.
EMH (screen): How kind of you. You may be interested to know that the analysis of the organic sample suggested this life form has the capacity to regenerate. The process may simply need a helping hand.
JANEWAY: Any ideas how we could stimulate regeneration?
EMH (screen): Lieutenant Torres has the answer.
TORRES: I do?
EMH (screen): You were the one who first observed that this life form has a nucleogenic structure.
TORRES: If the life form has a nucleogenic structure, nucleonic radiation ought to assist its healing process. A nucleonic beam along the edges of the breach should theoretically promote regeneration.
EMH (screen): Bravo.
JANEWAY: Commander, take us to yellow alert and advise the crew that we're going to re-enter the life form. Mister Kim, review all systems in light of our first experience and see if you can provide new safeguards. Tuvok, your job is to find some modification of the shields that will hold off this life form's natural defense systems. We begin at thirteen hundred hours. Dismissed.

[Mess Hall]
NEELIX: The bantan is a little on the spicy side. Kes grows them herself in the hydroponics garden. Don't eat any of the little pink things and you'll be fine.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): All personnel report to stations. Yellow alert.
CREWWOMAN: Sorry.
CREWMAN: Excuse me.
NEELIX: Now what? Neelix to Chakotay.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We're very busy up here, Neelix. What do you need?
NEELIX (voiceover): This yellow alert business.

[Mess Hall]
NEELIX: I was just starting to serve
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Sorry.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We found out that the nebula is actually a life form and we've got to go back in to repair some damage we did to it. Chakotay out.

[Mess Hall]
NEELIX: Go back in? Hello? Well, that's it. I've had it.
KES: Neelix.
NEELIX: No. I'm going to the Captain about this.

[Ready Room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
NEELIX: Captain, I understand that this nebula we've discovered is some kind of monster?
JANEWAY: Not a monster, Neelix, but it is a life form.
NEELIX: Excuse me if I sound crazy, because someone may have been playing a joke on me, but you aren't planning to take us back into the belly of this beast, are you?
JANEWAY: No joke.
NEELIX: Why?
JANEWAY: Because we hurt it, and we have to help it recover.
NEELIX: I did not come on board this ship to be a veterinarian, Captain.
JANEWAY: And I thought you were a man of unlimited talents.
NEELIX: I just reached my limit. So if you don't mind, Kes and I will wait on board my little vessel for you to return.
JANEWAY: All our crews are busy preparing for this mission. I'm not pulling them off their duties to prepare your ship for launch. And I'm not going drop you off on the side of the road every time we hit a bump. When we finished, if you want to leave that's your business, but for the moment, find yourself a seat with a good view, because just like Jonah and the whale, you're going in.
NEELIX: Is that final?
JANEWAY: Dismissed. That's a Starfleet expression for get out.

[Bridge]
NEELIX: Jonah? Whale?
PARIS: Approaching the perimeter.
JANEWAY: Disengage impulse engines.
PARIS: Impulse engines offline.
JANEWAY: Engage thrusters one third.
PARIS: Thrusters engaged.
JANEWAY: Red alert.
TUVOK: Shields are up. Adaptive harmonics are operational.
PARIS: Density is already more than double what we encountered last time.
TUVOK: EM hull pressure is approaching dangerous levels, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim?
KIM: If my research is right, releasing positive ions through the nacelle should repel some of the dust out there.
JANEWAY: Without causing further harm to the creature?
KIM: I believe so, Captain.
JANEWAY: Very well.
KIM: Ion release confirmed.
PARIS: Ambient density is dropping.
TUVOK: Hull pressure is decreasing also.
JANEWAY: Hold your course.
TUVOK: Fourteen thousand kilometers to the breach.
PARIS: I can see it.
JANEWAY: Magnify. Engineering, ready your nucleonic beam.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Ready and awaiting your orders, Captain.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, bring us into position.
PARIS: Coming about forty degrees.
JANEWAY: Report!
KIM: We're being hit by some kind of multi-polar charges. They're not like anything we saw the first time.
TUVOK: Shields at eighty seven percent.
JANEWAY: Will they hold?
TUVOK: The polarity of each charge is rotating so quickly, the shields can not compensate.

[Engineering]
TORRES: We've lost the rear driver coil assembly.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Inertial dampers are offline. I'm losing control. Hold on!
JANEWAY: Engineering, initiate emergency shutdown of all thrusters.
TORRES (voiceover): Captain

[Engineering]
TORRES: The only way we can shut down all thrusters is to vent their deuterium into space. We can't afford to lose all that fuel.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We have no choice. Do it.
TORRES: Acknowledged. Cutting thrusters.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Inertial dampers are still offline.
JANEWAY: Reset IDF baseline at three zero zero and reinitialize.
PARIS: Field processors coming back on-line. Inertial damping restored.
JANEWAY: All stop. Damage report.
KIM: Electroplasma leaks reported on deck fourteen. Repair crews are being dispatched. Otherwise, we seem to be in one piece.
CHAKOTAY: I believe the optical data network is down, Ensign.
KIM: Yes, sir. I'll get right on it.
TUVOK: Fourteen injuries reported, Captain. None serious.
JANEWAY: Have you any idea where we are, Mister Paris?
PARIS: Approximately seventy thousand kilometers from our former position. Deeper inside the creature than before.
JANEWAY: Let's hope it has a slow digestive process.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: We need to get back to the wound without causing a response from its defense systems. Suggestions?
CHAKOTAY: It seems to be leaving us alone now that we've cut off all propulsion systems. Maybe that's what cues it to respond. If I'm right, we might be able to get back without engaging any engines.
PARIS: No engines?
CHAKOTAY: We've been reading these swirling energy currents since we first got here. When we thought it was a nebula, we weren't looking for any pattern. We thought they were just random eddies. But now I'm wondering if these currents might be some kind of circulatory system.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, are you showing omicron particles in these currents?
KIM: Affirmative, Captain.
JANEWAY: If the currents are distributing omicron energy throughout the life form, the circulatory system might pass right by that wound.
PARIS: We could get in one of those currents and surf back.
JANEWAY: Use the reaction control thrusters in drift mode only, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. We're on our way. Speed, all of two hundred KPH.
NEELIX: Time for refreshment. Ailis paté, Felada onion crisps, stuffed Cardaway leaves. Yum.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the thought, Neelix, but this is hardly the time.
NEELIX: As the morale officer on this ship, I insist that a break in the workload is both healthy and necessary. Go on, Mister Vulcan. It might even help you loosen up. Or not.
TUVOK: May I ask when you became morale officer?
NEELIX: Oh, just a few minutes ago when I sensed crew morale might be especially low. Mine certainly was. We were in a free fall at the time.
KES: Cooking always helps Neelix to unwind.
NEELIX: Yes, and after we stabilized, I certainly needed to unwind. So, it seemed to me, I had a choice to either come up here and say I told you so.
PARIS: No.
NEELIX: Or to try to do something constructive to help out in my own humble manner. Try the stuffed Cardaway leaves. They're irresistible.
NEELIX: Now, as your new morale officer, I thought it might be fun for us all to sing a few songs together.
JANEWAY: Don't push it, Neelix.
PARIS: Captain?
JANEWAY: Well done, Mister Paris. Take us gently out of the current. Stay in RCS drift mode.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Miss Torres, prepare your nucleonic beam.
TORRES: We're ready

[Engineering]
TORRES: Down here, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Let's give the wound

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Two doses to start. Five bursts at a two second interval. Now. Analysis.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Scanners are showing the regeneration rate up only point zero four percent.

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): I don't know what we can hope to accomplish if this is the best we can do.

[Engineering]
TORRES: The breach may simply be too large to seal.
EMH (voiceover): This is the Doctor speaking. Please activate your monitor to the Emergency Medical Holographic Channel. I believe I may have a suggestion that will help.
EMH (screen): Since no one had the courtesy to turn me off after my last consultation, I've had the opportunity to observe your progress, or lack of same.

[Bridge]
EMH (screen): I believe a slight alteration of your treatment plan is necessary. As inspiration, I've drawn on an ancient medical technique known as a suture.
JANEWAY: Suture?
EMH (screen): Before the advent of laser technologies

[Engineering]
EMH (screen): Surgical fiber was used to stitch together a wound to allow it to heal naturally.
TORRES: How does that help us?
EMH (screen): Your ship's energy systems are compatible with this life form's omicron particles, are they not?
TORRES: That's right.

[Bridge]
EMH (screen): Then it is very likely that this vessel could serve the life form's needs in much the same manner as a suture. By allowing the ship to serve as an energy conduit across the wound, the life form should be able to regenerate itself more rapidly.
PARIS: And how are we supposed to get the ship into the wound without getting the hell beat out of us again?
EMH: That's your problem, not mine. Doctor out.
PARIS: That's sort of like asking a hurt dog not to bite you while you tend to its wounds.
JANEWAY: You like dogs, Mister Paris?
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. I always had a dog.
JANEWAY: I like dogs, too. When I had to clean out a cut on my dog's leg, I needed to create a little diversion first to take her mind off it. Mister Kim? Prepare a class four microprobe.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant, if I gave you a short burst from our thrusters, would it be enough for you to maneuver into the breach in ten seconds?
PARIS: I'd feel better if I had twenty.
JANEWAY: Once we launch that probe as a diversion, you might have ten, maybe even less than that.
PARIS: Ten sounds good.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, status?
KIM: Microprobe is loaded and ready.
JANEWAY: Set coordinates for launch at one sixty mark seven zero. Cut power after five hundred meters. I don't want to hurt this life form again.
KIM: Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: Engineering, I'll need a one second burst from our aft

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Thrusters on my order.
TORRES: Standing by.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Launch microprobe. Thrusters.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Firing.

[Bridge]
KIM: Reading multi-polar charges, high frequency.
TUVOK: Shields at seventy five percent and holding.
JANEWAY: Maintain position. Engineering, direct two nucleonic beams fore and aft, parallel to the central axis of the ship.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Acknowledged. Beam engaged. Captain, I'm showing a rapid growth pattern along the wound.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Regenerative matter approaching from both directions at just under five hundred kilometers per hour.
JANEWAY: Hold position.
TUVOK: Captain, the shields are only designed to withstand
JANEWAY: I am aware of that, Mister Tuvok. Hold position.
TUVOK: Regenerative matter approaching. Range, thirty kilometers, fore and aft.
JANEWAY: Engineering, ready full thrusters. Mister Paris?
PARIS: Just tell me when.
TUVOK: Regenerative matter at twenty kilometers. Fifteen. Ten.
JANEWAY: Disengage nucleonic beam. Fire thrusters.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Thrusters engaged.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Now, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Forty thousand kilometers to the perimeter. Thirty thousand.
CHAKOTAY: The life form's regeneration rate is up forty percent, Captain. Looks like it's well on the way to closing that wound.
PARIS: We've cleared the central mass. Captain's Log, supplemental. We set out to augment our energy reserves and wound up depleting them by over twenty percent. As a result, we've set a new course for a planet fourteen light years away that Neelix says might have compatible energy sources to offer us. It is out of our way, but circumstances offer few alternatives. So much for raising spirits.

[Turbolift]
KIM: Turning in for the night, Captain?
JANEWAY: Actually, I'm going to talk to an animal and then turn in. Something Commander Chakotay taught me. It's supposed to be quite therapeutic. You might want to ask him about it.
KIM: I will.
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY: What is it, Ensign?
KIM: Well, I don't mean to be out of place, but if you'd care to join us, you'd be welcome.
JANEWAY: Join you where?

[Sandrine's]
RICKY: Come on, Tommy. Let's get out of here.
PARIS: Easy, honey. I'm setting the Indian up for the big hustle.
RICKY: But he's beating you.
PARIS: Yeah, that's exactly what he's supposed to think, too.
JANEWAY: As you were. Well, this is remarkable. Mister Kim tells me this is your doing, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Er, yeah. It's just a little diversion, Captain.
GIGOLO: One always knows when a woman of good breeding enters the room. Ma cherie, may I request your favorite song so that we may dance before I take you to my private felucca on the wharf and make passionate love to you.
PARIS: I'm sorry. If I had some kind of warning that you were coming
JANEWAY: You would have changed it and I would've missed all the fun.
GAUNT GARY: I just don't know what the dolls see in the gigolo, do you? Now me, I got a whole different approach to women. Treat a lady like a tramp and a tramp like a lady. Never fails.
TORRES: Paris, did you program this guy?
PARIS: Yeah. Why?
TORRES: He's a pig, and so are you.
GAUNT GARY: Almost never.
JANEWAY: Is this pool or billiards?
PARIS: Er, pool.
JANEWAY: Right. Pool's the one with the pockets. Would you mind if I gave it a try?
GIGOLO: Reculez-vous. Give the handsome young woman some room. Tell me, does she have, er, money?
JANEWAY: Commander Chakotay, your stick?
CHAKOTAY: It's called a cue, Captain.
JANEWAY: A cue. All right. So what do we do? Do I go first?
JANEWAY: Solids.
SANDRINE: I saw that coming a mile away, didn't you? Ah, you've got a lot to learn, jeune homme. But then, ah, I've got a lot to teach.
JANEWAY: Eight ball in the side pocket.
JANEWAY (voiceover): A-koo-chee-moy-a. We are far from the sacred places of our grandfathers and from the bones of our people. But perhaps there is one powerful being who will embrace this good crew and give them the answer they seek.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48579.4. The crew has been scanning constantly for anomalies that might help us shorten our journey home. Ensign Kim has reported an exciting discovery. A subspace disturbance which may be a wormhole.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Let's see what you have, Mister Kim.
KIM: There. It's registering only on subspace bands. We don't even have it on long range sensors yet.
JANEWAY: Verteron emanations. Tunneling secondary particles. It certainly looks like a wormhole.
CHAKOTAY: But is it stable enough for us to enter, and if it is, where does it lead?
TUVOK: There is, of course, a seventy five percent chance the wormhole will not lead to the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: Very true. But you can also say there's a one in four chance it will. Those aren't bad odds. Any analysis yet, Ensign?
KIM: Too far away. We'd have to be within a thousand kilometers to get a detailed analysis. That would mean a significant course change.
JANEWAY: Well, Mister Kim, if there's even the possibility of finding a wormhole, I think we can afford a detour. Lieutenant, input the coordinates and change course.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. And may I suggest, if this works, we petition the Federation Astronomical Committee to officially designate this the Harry Kim Wormhole.
PARIS: Captain, we're approaching the coordinates of the wormhole.
JANEWAY: On screen. Are we in visual range?
KIM: Affirmative, Captain, and the anomaly is still registering on subspace bands.
PARIS: Sensors also indicate it's there.
JANEWAY: Magnify. Increase to highest magnification.
CHAKOTAY: If that's a wormhole, it must be the smallest one on record.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, are you able to analyze it?
KIM: Aye Captain. It's virtually microscopic. The aperture is only about thirty centimeters in diameter.
PARIS: I guess it's a little too small for us to fly through.
TUVOK: However, it might be large enough to act as a conduit for a message.
KIM: That's right. It could carry a compressed data transmission to Federation space in minutes.
JANEWAY: We still have to find out if it goes anywhere near the Alpha Quadrant. Can you trace it's subspace bearing?
KIM: I can't get any directional readings at all. The aperture is too small.
TUVOK: I recommend we launch a microprobe into the wormhole.
JANEWAY: Agreed. Do it, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
KIM: We're receiving telemetry.
PARIS: It doesn't look like any wormhole I've ever studied.
KIM: Microscopic gravitational eddies, extremely constricted spatial dimensions. The pathway's barely wider than the probe itself.
JANEWAY: I think what we're seeing is a wormhole in an advanced state of decay. Must be ancient. Probably been collapsing for centuries.
PARIS: Does that mean we can't send a message through it?
KIM: No, I can do it. Maybe it'll take longer to get through, but the wormhole's still stable enough to carry a transmission.
CHAKOTAY: Any idea yet where that message would end up, Ensign?
KIM: I'll try extrapolating the verteron exit vector. No, I can't get it. There's a strange phase variance in the radiation stream. We'll have to wait until the probe exits.
JANEWAY: That shouldn't take long.
PARIS: Captain, I'm getting a distorted energy reading.
TUVOK: The probe's telemetry has changed.
KIM: It's stuck.
JANEWAY: Stuck?
KIM: It's mired in a gravitational eddy, and because the wormhole's in a state of collapse, those eddies are incredibly dense. That probe will never break free, Captain, and we'll have no way of finding out where the wormhole ends.
JANEWAY: Let's give it some time. Maybe it will work itself loose.
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY: What is it, Ensign.
KIM: Our probe was just scanned. There's somebody on the other side of the wormhole.

[Sickbay]
BAXTER: It started acting up a couple of days ago. I'd been working out in the gym, maybe I overdid it.
EMH: Is it sore here?
BAXTER: Yes.
EMH: Localized tenderness to the ulna bone, no epidermal damage, moderate oedema. What are the possible diagnoses?
KES: Epicondylitis, strained ligament, torn muscle and hairline fracture.
EMH: That's exactly right.
KES: I've studied all the material you gave me. I'm ready for more.
EMH: Good. There's a great deal more for you to learn. The tricorder indicates this is a small stress fracture.
BAXTER: Can this guy do everything a real doctor does?
EMH: Yes, he can. Activate it and direct the beam here. That's it. Not quite so fast.
BAXTER: If I had to get treatment for something serious, if I needed surgery for instance, would he be performing it?
EMH: Of course, and quite expertly too.
BAXTER: I don't know. I'd have to think twice about that.
EMH: Fine. And if you were lucky you wouldn't die on the table while you were making up your mind. That should do it. How does it feel?
BAXTER: Not bad. Thanks.

[Doctor's office]
KES: Doctor, did you notice how rudely that officer treated you?
EMH: Not more so than most.
KES: You mean others act that way too.
EMH: Let's just say I've become accustomed to being treated like a hypospray. Now, here's some material on first aid for burns.
KES: Doctor, I think I'd like to do more than study first aid. I'd be interested in knowing more about anatomy and physiology.
EMH: You're intellectually curious. I like that. These deal with human anatomy and physiology, but they weren't written for the layman. They're quite technical.
KES: I understand. I'll do my best. And I really appreciate your help.

[Briefing Room]
KIM: We've analyzed the data. So far our sensors have detected four separate scans of the microprobe, each one on a progressively narrower band. Someone on the other end of that wormhole is definitely interested in that probe.
TUVOK: We cannot preclude the possibility that there is a microscopic entity within the wormhole curious about an intruder.
KIM: That's possible, but you'd think our probe would have detected something like that.
JANEWAY: What's the condition of the probe now?
TORRES: I've been monitoring it from Engineering. It's still embedded in a gravitational eddy, but within seventy two hours it will be crushed.
KIM: But until then it should continue to transmit telemetry.
JANEWAY: If we're reading scans from the other side, it's possible the probe is acting as a relay. If that's true, we should be able to use it to transmit a message to whoever is executing the scan.
KIM: Yes. I can modify our subspace communications band to accept the probe as a booster.
JANEWAY: Let's try it, Mister Kim.
TORRES: I'll give you a hand.
TUVOK: I fear Mister Kim's exuberance may turn into an equally intense disappointment if his efforts prove in vain.
JANEWAY: You may be right, but I'd rather assume that he's going to be successful.

[Engineering]
KIM: Okay, I've boosted power to the communications bandwidth. Now all we have to do reconfigure the signal generator so it's compatible with the probe's long range sensors.
TORRES: I'm on it. Just a few minutes more.
KIM: This has to work. It'll mean so much to people back home to know we're alive and headed for Federation space.
TORRES: We haven't been gone that long. People won't give up on us so soon. They probably just think we're lost.
KIM: It's still going to be hard on my folks. I always called them once a week, even when I was on my training missions. I've never been out of contact for so long.
TORRES: Well, it is going to work, Starfleet, so pretty soon they're going to know you're all right.
KIM: How about you? Any family?
TORRES: I haven't seen my father since I was five. He and my mother separated. He went back to Earth and that was the last I saw of him.
KIM: And your mom?
TORRES: I think she's on the Klingon Homeworld.
KIM: You think?
TORRES: We didn't get along very well. Okay, the signal generator should be tuned to the probe's long range sensors.
KIM: Isn't there anyone back home who'll be worried about you?
TORRES: The Maquis are as to a close family as I've ever had. Most of my friends are here, on the ship, so no, there's no one back home who's going to care one way or the other whether I'm alive. We're ready to transmit.
KIM: Engineering to Bridge.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Janeway here.
KIM (voiceover): We have a communications link with the microprobe. We're going to try sending a preliminary test signal, a series of sub-harmonic pulses.

[Engineering]
KIM: They stand the best chance of transmission through the wormhole.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Proceed.
KIM (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading transmission of the test signal. The probe has received it and relayed it.
PARIS: How will we know if the signal reaches somebody?
JANEWAY: The only way is if that somebody answers.

[Engineering]
KIM: There's no response.
TORRES: It's too soon. Remember, we have no idea how long it takes to reach the other side.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Are you reading anything, Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: Negative Captain. There is nothing that would suggest a response.
CHAKOTAY: Even if someone receives our signal, it might take them some time to figure out how to return it.
JANEWAY: You're right. Janeway to Kim. Continue transmitting.
KIM (voiceover): Aye Captain.

[Engineering]
KIM: How long shall we keep it up?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Until I tell you otherwise.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: You have the bridge, Commander.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: I'm getting something, Captain.
PARIS: I'm getting it too. A subspace signal relayed through the probe.
TUVOK: That signal is being transmitted at exactly the same frequency and amplitude as our signal. It's a response. Someone received our transmission and sent one back, and their signal originated in the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Encouraged by his success in transmitting a signal to the Alpha Quadrant, Mister Kim is investigating the possibility of establishing a voice link with whoever is at the other end of the wormhole.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in. Kes, this is a surprise.
KES: Am I interrupting?
JANEWAY: Not at all. I was just going to have a cup of soup. Would you like anything?
KES: Ah, spinach juice with a touch of pear, please. Tom Paris introduced me to it, it's very nutritious.
JANEWAY: I'm sure. Computer, one spinach juice with a touch of pear and one cup of vegetable bouillon. What can I do for you?
KES: If there were a member of the crew whose needs weren't being met, would you want to know about it?
JANEWAY: Of course. Kes, do you and Neelix feel that your needs are being ignored?
KES: Of course not, we're very happy here. I'm referring to the Doctor.
JANEWAY: The Doctor?
KES: I don't understand why people treat him the way they do.
JANEWAY: How do people treat him?
KES: As though he doesn't exist. They talk about him while he's standing right there. They ignore him. They insult him.
JANEWAY: Well as a matter of fact, I've been hearing the other side of the coin. Many of the crew have complained that the Doctor is brusque, even rude, that he lacks any bedside manner. We've been talking about reprogramming him.
KES: You can do that? It doesn't seem right.
JANEWAY: Kes, he's only a hologram.
KES: He's your Medical Officer. He's alive.
JANEWAY: No he's not.
KES: He's self aware, he's communicative, he has the ability to learn.
JANEWAY: Because he's been programmed to do that.
KES: So because he's a hologram he doesn't have to be treated with respect or any consideration at all?
JANEWAY: Very well, I'll look into it.
KES: Thank you, Captain.

[Bridge]
KIM: Okay, we'll be ready to go online in a couple of minutes.
TORRES: I'm still worried about the gravitational interference. I don't think the co-variant isolator will be effective with a vocal transmission.
KIM: Let's try inverting the narrow band filter.
JANEWAY: Progress report, Ensign.
KIM: I think we're ready to give it a try, though we're pushing through some pretty heavy gravitational interference. I can't guarantee the clarity of the transmission.
JANEWAY: Let's see what happens. This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. Do you read?
TORRES: I'll narrow the filter bandpass some more. Try again, Captain.
JANEWAY: This is Kathryn Janeway of the Federation ship Voyager. Is anyone receiving this communication?
TELEK (voiceover): vessel
KIM: Narrow the bandpass some more. Try again, Captain.
JANEWAY: This is Janeway. Please repeat your last transmission.
TELEK (voiceover): cargo vessel quadrant your location.
JANEWAY: Cargo vessel, we're still trying to clear up your last transmission. Please repeat one more time.
TELEK (voiceover): I am Captain of the cargo vessel Talvath, location Alpha Quadrant, sector one three eight five. What is your location?
JANEWAY: We're in the Delta Quadrant, but since this quadrant hasn't been charted I can't specify our exact location.
TELEK (voiceover): Please confirm. You said Delta Quadrant?
JANEWAY: Correct.
TELEK (voiceover): In a Federation starship?
JANEWAY: Yes. We were on a mission and we got pulled into this quadrant.
TELEK (voiceover): Pulled in? How?
JANEWAY: It's a complicated story. Please, if you would just try deconstructing the phase shift of our hailing frequency you could verify.
TELEK (voiceover): You are undoubtedly still in the Alpha quadrant. What are your coordinates?
JANEWAY: I assure you I am telling you the truth. We are in the Delta quadrant, seventy thousand light years from you.
TELEK (voiceover): This is preposterous. You are obviously lying. I am terminating communication.
JANEWAY: No, no, wait! Kim! Hail them again.
KIM: No response, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Why would he have broken off transmission?
TUVOK: Perhaps I can offer an explanation. The comm. link signature of his transmission indicates the message originated from a Romulan ship. Further, there are no known shipping lanes in the sector he identified. Given the precise calibration of his signal I would suggest that he is in fact on board a science vessel.
PARIS: Why would he pretend to be a cargo captain.
CHAKOTAY: If he's engaged in some kind of secret research he might want to conceal that fact.
TUVOK: Precisely. When we claimed to be transmitting from the Delta quadrant, an impossibility so far as he knows, he may have feared we were Federation spies.
TORRES: Just our luck. We raise one ship from the Alpha quadrant and it has to be Romulan.
JANEWAY: That Romulan still has the ability to get a message to Starfleet. Mister Kim, hail the Talvath repeatedly. Call me the minute you re-establish contact. Commander, you have the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.

[Doctor's office]
JANEWAY: Computer, initiate Emergency Medical Holographic Program.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
JANEWAY: There is no emergency, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Well, that's good. I was right in the middle of preparing a culture to test Lieutenant Hargrove for Arethian flu when Ensign Kyoto deactivated me.
JANEWAY: I'm sure she didn't realize you were busy.
EMH: What is it you want, Captain.
JANEWAY: Actually, I thought we might just talk for a moment.
EMH: About what?
JANEWAY: Doctor, you were originally programmed to serve in a limited fashion during an emergency. Now you're being asked to do much more.
EMH: That's certainly true. I'm providing full time medical service for the entire ship's crew, functioning both as doctor and nurse, and now as an instructor as well.
JANEWAY: You don't have the luxury of thinking of yourself as am Emergency Medical Program any more. You've become a full-fledged member of the crew.
EMH: I see. Are you suggesting that I be re-programmed?
JANEWAY: No. I'm asking if there's anything I can do to help you.
EMH: Help me?
JANEWAY: If there's anything you need, or want, I'd like to see that you get it.
EMH: What I'd like is to be turned off when people leave. I spend hours here with absolutely nothing to do. When someone does remember to deactivate me they do so without asking if it's convenient. It's extremely irritating.
JANEWAY: What if I gave you control over your deactivation sequence?
EMH: I beg your pardon?
JANEWAY: I'm sure we can make it possible for you to turn yourself off, or to prevent being turned off.
EMH: I, I might like that.
JANEWAY: I'll have someone look into it. Anything else?
EMH: I'm not sure, I'll have to give it some thought.
JANEWAY: You do that.

[Captain's quarters]
KIM (voiceover): Kim to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.
KIM (voiceover): Captain, we've got him back. The Romulan.
JANEWAY: Good work. Put him through to my quarters.
JANEWAY: This is Kathryn Janeway.
TELEK (voiceover): This is the cargo vessel Talvath.
JANEWAY: Thank you for answering our hail, Captain. What is your name? How may I address you?
TELEK (voiceover): I'd prefer not to give my name.
JANEWAY: Very well, I understand that you must have been skeptical when I told you where we are. I hope you've been able to verify our position.
TELEK (voiceover): My analysis of your hailing frequency seems to indicate that it originates in the Delta quadrant, but I am not precluding the possibility that you've been able to create that illusion somehow.
JANEWAY: To what end?
TELEK (voiceover): I'm not sure. That doesn't negate the possibility.
JANEWAY: How can I assure you of my truthfulness?
TELEK (voiceover): You say you are a Federation ship. Are you a Starfleet vessel?
JANEWAY: Yes, we are.
TELEK (voiceover): And your mission in the Delta quadrant?
JANEWAY: Our mission was originally in the Alpha quadrant. We were pulled against our will to our present location. Now we're trying to get home.
TELEK (voiceover): Aren't you in fact Starfleet spies on a surveillance mission?
JANEWAY: Captain, I understand your concern. Naturally the Romulan Empire doesn't want Starfleet spying on it's science vessels, but since we're seventy thousand light years from Romulan space and a subspace message to Starfleet would take years, I think you have to admit that we can't be much of a threat to you. You have nothing to fear from us.
TELEK (voiceover): Soothing words, Captain, but they are only words.
JANEWAY: If we were spies, we wouldn't be asking what I'm going to ask you now. We have no way of communicating with Starfleet, with our friends and families. We're hoping you might be able to relay a message for us. Our crew is not large. Each of them could write a short personal message. You'd be welcome to read them all before passing them on. I think you'd be convinced that they're nothing more than the heartfelt words of some very lonely people.
TELEK (voiceover): Captain, it would ease my apprehension if I could see that you are who you say you are. I have a signal amplifier on board. I've been working to reconfigure the protocols to penetrate the radiation stream of the wormhole. I think it might be possible to establish a visual link between us.
JANEWAY: I have no objection. When that's done, will you help us?
TELEK (voiceover): I make no promises. Let us proceed one step at a time. Have your officers contact me in order to attempt the visual link. Goodnight.
JANEWAY: Goodnight.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: We're ready to try a visual link with the Romulan ship, Captain.
JANEWAY: Good work.
KIM: We didn't have any trouble configuring the protocols, but that phase variance in the radiation stream gave us a few problems. Torres is going to balance it manually from Engineering.
PARIS: Okay, we've got the communications frequency locked in.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TELEK (screen): I presume you are Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Yes. I want to thank you, Captain, for maintaining contact with us. It means a great deal to me and to my crew.
TELEK (screen): I am not familiar with this class of ship.
JANEWAY: It's new, but it isn't classified. I'm a little surprised your intelligence hasn't provided you with the information.
TELEK (screen): I've been in space for over a year, Captain, and am not privy to the latest intelligence, but I'm sure that our operatives provided the government with detailed information about your new ship.
JANEWAY: No doubt. Captain, have you been able to communicate with your government about sending on our messages?
TELEK (screen): I have. They've promised to take the matter under advisement.
JANEWAY: I see. And when do you think they will have an answer?
TELEK (screen): It is impossible to predict the time table of the Romulan Senate. When they've made their decision I will hear from them.
JANEWAY: We don't have the luxury of a great deal of time. My officers are predicting that the probe will become inoperable in the next forty eight hours.
TELEK (screen): Captain, I am a low ranking scientist, a minor functionary. It is not my place to tell the Romulan Senate to speed up their decision making process.
JANEWAY: You said you've been in space for over a year. Have you any family?
TELEK (screen): Yes.
JANEWAY: I assume they're not with you in space.
TELEK (screen): My wife and my daughter are on Romulus.
JANEWAY: A daughter. How old is she?
TELEK (screen): She is seven months.
JANEWAY: Then you've never seen her.
TELEK (screen): To my sorrow, no. She'll be two years old before I get back.
JANEWAY: You must miss your family very much.
TELEK (screen): I knew when I accepted this assignment there would be a price to pay. Perhaps I didn't realize how high that price would be.
JANEWAY: Captain. Everyone of us on this ship has left behind friends, family, loved ones. We may not see them again for years, maybe never, so we can all understand how lonely you must be. Surely you must understand our feelings as well. We would be deeply grateful for any efforts you might make to persuade your government to send our messages.
TELEK (screen): I cannot guarantee success, but I will try to persuade my superiors to make their decision quickly and positively.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
TELEK (screen): I will contact you again.
JANEWAY: Commander, let's assume he's going to be successful. Tell the crew to prepare personal messages and have them ready within the hour.
CHAKOTAY: With pleasure, Captain.
TORRES: Captain, I have to talk to you.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Torres.
TORRES: No. I mean, in private.

[Ready room]
TORRES: I think this will work, Captain, but I didn't want to bring it up in front of the crew. It wouldn't be right to get their hopes up in case it doesn't work, although I think it will.
JANEWAY: Slow down, Torres, and tell me what you're talking about.
TORRES: The phase amplitude of the visual link with the Romulan ship is within just a few megahertz of meeting transporter protocols.
JANEWAY: Are you suggesting
TORRES: We might be able to piggyback a transporter beam onto the visual link. We could transport the entire crew back to the Alpha quadrant.
JANEWAY: You'll have to reconfigure the matter transmission rate.
TORRES: Fairly substantially.
JANEWAY: And we risk losing whatever we try to beam out.
TORRES: We'll have to run a series of tests first.
JANEWAY: See to it, Lieutenant.
TORRES: I'll need some help.
JANEWAY: You have my authorisation to use any of the ships personnel you need. This has top priority. And don't worry about secrecy. I doubt you'd be able to keep this quiet for very long.

[Sickbay]
KES: I've finished these and I'm ready for more.
EMH: You've finished those already?
KES: I enjoyed studying anatomy. It would be interesting to see an autopsy sometime.
EMH: What are the bones of the middle ear?
KES: Malleus, incus and stapes.
EMH: And the connective tissue between the middle and the external auditory canal?
KES: The tympanic membrane.
EMH: Hmm. I suspect you have an eidetic memory. An astonishing gift. I'll do a full neural scan on you at some point.

[Doctor's office]
KES: I've been thinking. If we do get back to Federation space, I'd like to explore the possibility of going to Medical School.
EMH: If you continue to apply yourself as you have, by the time we get back you may already have the equivalent of a medical degree.
KES: Then you haven't heard?
EMH: Heard what?
KES: That we might be getting back soon.
EMH: If there's one thing you can count on, it's that I am the last to be told about anything that happens on this ship.
KES: Everyone's talking about it. There may be a way to transport all of us to the Alpha Quadrant. Chief Torres and half of engineering are working on it right now.
EMH: I see. Well, I'll say goodbye now. I won't be transporting with the rest of you.
KES: But can't we download your program and take you with us?
EMH: My program is fully integrated into the sickbay system. At present I cannot be downloaded.
KES: Thank you for everything.
EMH: Wait. I'd like. That is, could I ask a favor of you?
KES: Anything.
EMH: If you do leave, before you go, would you check to make sure I've been deactivated.
KES: I promise.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: And our Chief Engineer has managed to bind a transporter beam to the visual link between us.
TELEK (screen): Then you've matched your data transmission to the phase amplitude of our comm. signal?
JANEWAY: Exactly.
TELEK (screen): Apparently our intelligence operatives are not doing their job. You clearly have technology that we are unaware of. This would be an incredible breakthrough in subspace field mechanics.
CHAKOTAY: If it's successful, we'd like to try transmitting a test cylinder to you.
TELEK (screen): A test cylinder of what sort?
TUVOK: It is a standard Starfleet mechanism with a varietal molecular matrix. It simulates most organic and non-organic compounds. It is not classified technology.
TELEK (screen): Ah, I am aware of this mechanism. We use a similar device. I will allow the transport.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Transporter room one.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres here.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: We're all set, Captain. The lock is active and we're focused on the Romulan's

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): Transporter coordinates.
JANEWAY: All right then. Let's give it a try.
CHAKOTAY: Energize.

[Transporter Room]
TORRES: The cylinder has dematerialized, Captain.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Can you get it back?

[Transporter Room]
TORRES: The pattern buffer is having trouble accepting the matter stream.
KIM: I'll increase power to the

[Bridge]
KIM (voiceover): Phase transition coils.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: Ramp the coils to thirty seven megajoules.
KIM: Thirty seven megajoules.

[Bridge]
TELEK (screen): Congratulations, Captain. You've done it. Very impressive.
JANEWAY: We should run a series of these tests just to make sure, but we have to act quickly before the probe is crushed.
TELEK (screen): I understand.
JANEWAY: Eventually we will have to try transporting a person. One of our crew will beam to your ship if you'll allow it.
TELEK (screen): I'm afraid I can't permit that, Captain, my government would never allow Starfleet personnel on this ship. I wouldn't want my logs to show that activity.
TUVOK: Then what would you suggest?
TELEK (screen): I'll volunteer to transport to your ship and back again.
JANEWAY: But Captain, if we can't transport to your ship, how are we to get back?
TELEK (screen): If the procedure is successful, I'll arrange for a troop ship to join me. That would easily accommodate your crew.
JANEWAY: Very well. We'll be in touch.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Kim and Torres have made more than twenty transports of the test cylinder, even though she's still having trouble with that phase variance. Every one of them has been successful.
JANEWAY: Let's hope it goes as well with the Romulan.
TUVOK: Captain, I must insist that I stay with him at all times while he is on board.

[Transporter Room]
JANEWAY: Agreed.
TORRES: We're locked onto him. Whenever you're ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: Well, let's try it. Energize. What's the problem?
TORRES: It's the phase variance in the radiation stream. I'm balancing it manually.
JANEWAY: Welcome to the Delta quadrant, Captain. My first officer, Commander Chakotay. Lieutenant Tuvok, head of security. Chief Engineer Torres and Operations officer Kim.
TELEK: My congratulations on your remarkable accomplishment. This is an astonishing breakthrough.
TORRES: For a while there I didn't think you were going make it. There was a strange phase variance in the radiation stream. It almost kept us from pulling you through.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, you may begin evacuation procedures.
TUVOK: I suggest we delay that for the moment, Captain. I'm afraid I've found the reason for the unusual phase variance.
JANEWAY: What is it?
TUVOK: Captain, what year is it?
TELEK: What year?
TUVOK: If you please.
TELEK: By your calendar, the year is 2351.
CHAKOTAY: But this is 2371.
TUVOK: Exactly. Our Romulan visitor is a person out of time. He is showing clear evidence of temporal displacement. I would surmise that the wormhole is a rift not just in space but in time. The unusual phase variance we detected was actually an indication of a temporal shift. We have transported him from twenty years in the past to our present.

[Briefing Room]
TORRES: I've gone over and over the transporter logs. There's no question that if we try to transport ourselves through that wormhole, we'll end up twenty years in the past.
KIM: Then lets do it. It's better than trying to spend the next seventy years trying to get back.
PARIS: How can we do that? We'd be going back to a time when you were only two years old.
JANEWAY: I know you're disappointed, Harry, we all are. It seemed we were so close. But clearly we can't go back. It would pollute the time line to such an extent that the consequences would be unimaginable. I'm afraid we'll have to send you back alone and ask that you not reveal anything that has happened here.
TELEK: I can assure you, Captain, that I would not do anything that might contaminate the future and perhaps harm the Romulan Empire, but, in twenty years I could alert Starfleet not to launch the mission which sent you here.
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid that's not possible either. We've already had a huge impact on this quadrant. People and events here would be drastically affected.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid we're left with our original request. In twenty years, would you relay our personal messages to Starfleet?
TELEK: Of course. At the proper time, I will transmit them. If you should find a way back within my lifetime, I'd be an old man, but I would welcome a message from you. I am Telek R'Mor of the Romulan Astrophysical Academy.
JANEWAY: I promise you'll hear from us. Because we will get back.

[Transporter Room]
TUVOK: These are our messages.
TELEK: I wish you luck on your journey.
JANEWAY: And I thank you for your help. Energize.
TORRES: The signal's in the pattern buffer. Transferring to the emitter array.
KIM: Phase variance is out of synch again.
TORRES: Compensating. Transport complete, Captain. He made it.
JANEWAY: I'll tell the crew. They can have the satisfaction of knowing that their messages have reached their families.
TUVOK: Captain, I did not want to mention this until after our guest had left. I checked the computers databanks for a Romulan scientist named Telek R'Mor.
JANEWAY: And?
TUVOK: I'm sorry to report Doctor R'Mor died in 2367.
JANEWAY: That was four years ago.
TUVOK: That is correct. Before he would have sent our messages.
TORRES: Maybe he left a will telling someone else to transmit the messages. Or he could have given our computer chip to the Romulan Government.
TUVOK: It is possible. Unfortunately, there is no way to know.
JANEWAY: Then let's move on. We've got a long way to go.

[Sickbay]
BAXTER: I tried a new hamstring exercise. Maybe I overdid it. But my workouts are about all that stand between me and a severe case of cabin fever.
EMH: Lieutenant, I am the Chief Medical Officer of this ship. If you have something to say to me, please, direct the statement to me.
BAXTER: Well, you see, I need to work out.
EMH: I'm not telling you not to work out. I'm suggesting you use a modicum of commonsense when you do it. If I see you in here again for an exercise related injury, I'll have to discuss the matter with your superior officer.
BAXTER: Yes, sir.
EMH: You're fine now. You may leave.
BAXTER: Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.
KES: I don't think he'll make the mistake of ignoring you again.
EMH: Captain Janeway has made me realize that I must function as more than an Emergency Medical replacement. I must think of myself as a member of the crew.
KES: you're absolutely right.
EMH: I've prepared a list of things I'd like to see added to Sickbay. Perhaps you could present it to the Captain?
KES: I'd be happy to.
EMH: There's one more request. Something of a, a personal nature. I would like a name.

[Tolen's memory]
EMH (voiceover): What do you see, Mister Paris?
PARIS (voiceover): Shoes. Muddy shoes. The dog.
EMH (voiceover): Good. That's exactly what you should see.

[Room]
PARIS: But that isn't possible.
EMH: I'm sure it's disorienting to see yourself through another man's eyes.
PARIS: No, I

[Tolen's memory]
LIDELL: Tolen!
TOLEN (voiceover): Now I understand.
PARIS: I'd better be on my way.
LIDELL: You don't have to go, Tom. He's got no right.
TOLEN (voiceover): No right? This is my home. You come into my home and steal my wife, and I have no right?
PARIS: That's not the way it happened.

[Room]
PARIS: This isn't the way it happened.
EMH: The trial's over, Mister Paris. There's no point to further denials.

[Tolen's memory]
TOLEN (voiceover): I know about you, Paris. I know you were in prison.
PARIS: That has nothing to do with
TOLEN (voiceover): We'll see what your captain has to say about this. When I'm finished with you, you'll never wear that uniform again.
PARIS: I can't let you do that.
LIDELL: No, Tom, don't! Stop! No!

[Room]
PARIS: No, I didn't

[Tolen's memory]
LIDELL: Tom! Don't, Tom!

[Room]
EMH: Let the record show that the sentence of the court has been carried out. For the rest of his natural life, once every fourteen hours, Thomas Eugene Paris will relive the last moments of his victim's life. May the fates have mercy on you, sir.

[Doctor's office]
KES: If the hydroxy-proline level is elevated this high, you'd probably call for a pancreatic scan.
EMH: That's exactly what I'd call for. All right then, let's run through the osteographic series again. Just enter the responses you're sure about.
KES: So, have you given any more thought to a name?
EMH: I asked the Captain for one.
KES: Why don't you choose one yourself?
EMH: Choose one myself? Me? Well, that just isn't. Holograms are programmed, Kes. They don't choose anything for themselves.
KES: Why not?
EMH: Because we're not capable of choosing.
KES: Well, you choose what medical treatment to give someone.
EMH: I'm programmed with over five million possible treatments, with contingency programs and adaptive programs. But it's all programs upon programs upon programs. There's no independent decision making.
KES: I don't see the difference.
EMH: The difference is
KES: I base decisions on information stored inside my brain. How's that so different from the way you access your programs?
EMH: Well, if you put it that way.
KES: Do your programs have any names in them?
EMH: Certainly. I have the names of Starfleet doctors, their patients, medical personnel in historical and literary contexts.
KES: So pick a name.
EMH: Just pick one?
KES: Pick a name you like, perhaps from someone who inspires you.
EMH: Doctor, Doctor Galen. Doctor Salk. Doctor
KES: Those are good.
EMH: Spock.
KES: Can you see yourself with any of those names?
EMH: Not exactly.
KES: Take your time. After all, you will be that name for the rest of your life.
EMH: I never even considered that I had a life.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Sickbay. Activate Emergency Medical Holographic Program.
EMH: I'm already on, Captain.

[Bridge]
EMH (voiceover): What can I do for you?
JANEWAY: We've got an incoming shuttle with an injured crewman on board.
EMH (voiceover): Any details?
JANEWAY: It's either Ensign Kim or Lieutenant Paris. We haven't been able to raise them.
TUVOK: Sensors indicate damage to various subsystems.
JANEWAY: You're sure there's only one life sign aboard?
TUVOK: That is confirmed, Captain.
JANEWAY: Transport him to Sickbay. I'll be down there. Mister Tuvok.

[Sickbay]
KIM: They made me leave without him.
EMH: He's severely dehydrated.
KIM: No sleep.
KES: Neodextramine solution?
EMH: Prepare an iv.
JANEWAY: Can you tell us what happened to Paris, Mister Kim?
KIM: They made me leave without him. They said he'd committed a, a murder.
JANEWAY: Do you have any idea who the victim was?
KIM: An engineering physicist we were working with. His name was Tolen Ren.

[Tolen's office]
KIM (voiceover): The Banean Minister of Science introduced us to him just after we'd arrived.
TOLEN: So, from the other side of the galaxy.
KIM: Seventy thousand light years, give or take a few.
TOLEN: That's a long trip home with a damaged collimator.
KRAY: If anybody on this world can help you, Professor Ren can. He's developed four generations of navigational arrays for our ships.
TOLEN: We have to stay one step ahead of our neighbors the Numiri. Did you bring your ship's specifications with you?
KIM: It's all here.
TOLEN: Splendid. Why don't we begin to look it over at my home this evening? My wife would be delighted to have company for supper.
KIM (voiceover): There was no reason to say no, but if we hadn't gone with him that night, none of this would have happened.

[The Ren's home]
TOLEN: Come on now, Neeka, stop that racket. They're friends. That's better. That's better. What a good doggy. What a good doggy. Oh, dearest, are you dressed? We have guests. I should have called. I just don't think of the common courtesies. She's really wonderful about, er, tolerating my dreadful manners.
LIDELL: So, you've done it to me again.
TOLEN: Yes, dear. I apologize. Oh, Lidell, this is Ensign Harry Kim and Lieutenant Tom Paris. They're from the other side of the galaxy.
LIDELL: Hello.
PARIS: Nice to meet you.
LIDELL: You might have called.
TOLEN: You're absolutely right. Do you have enough to feed us all, or shall we go out?
LIDELL: No, it's fine. I have some leftover rolk from yesterday. I'll just throw it in the stew.
TOLEN: Wonderful. Gentlemen, make yourselves at home. I'm going to put on my slippers. Lidell will take good care of you.
LIDELL: Would you like a drink?
KIM: Sure.
LIDELL: Help yourself.
PARIS: What are you looking at?
KIM: Not the same thing that you're looking at, that's for sure.
PARIS: What are you looking at?
LIDELL: If it's spoiled, Neeka wouldn't eat it.
TOLEN: Nothing too fancy or exotic around here. We're very simple folks.
KIM: You're very kind to include us at your supper table.
TOLEN: We enjoy an occasional guest. I think Lidell would prefer us to entertain more often than we do, yes? She's far more social than I am. I'm afraid she gets a little bored here sometimes. I'm so consumed with my work.
PARIS: And here we are bringing more of it home to take your husband's attention away for the evening.
LIDELL: Whether you are here or not makes no difference. Tolen would work anyway.
TOLEN: I'm afraid she's right. We are at war, after all. By the way, how did you get past the Numiri patrols?
KIM: Lieutenant Paris is our best pilot.
PARIS: Captain Janeway decided not to take our ship into orbit. She wanted to avoid getting involved in your conflict. So, we came in on a shuttlecraft that would avoid immediate detection by the Numiri. I hid behind the limb of the moon before I made a break for your defense perimeter. By the time their sensors picked us up, they didn't have a chance to catch us.
TOLEN: Well done! Finished already?
LIDELL: The meat doesn't taste right.
TOLEN: Well, we do have a lot of work to get done. Perhaps we should begin.
KIM (voiceover): We went into the other room and started to work on the navigational beam specifications.

[Sickbay]
KIM: It was pretty dry stuff. You know, rewriting baseline code algorithms. Tom got bored. He left us alone for a while. I guess he was with Mrs Ren. I know they saw each other again the next day. That was the night Professor Ren was murdered.
TUVOK: Did you talk to Lieutenant Paris after he was detained?
KIM: No. They never let me see him. They interrogated me for almost two days straight. They asked me a lot of questions about the Numiri. At first, they must've thought we were Numiri agents or something. Professor Ren was the inventor of Banean warship technology.
EMH: He's completely exhausted. Can some of this wait until he's had a chance to rest?
JANEWAY: We'll find out about Paris, Mister Kim. Janeway to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
JANEWAY: Set a course for the Banean homeworld, Commander.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Aye, Captain.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
NEELIX: You sent for me, Captain.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Paris has gotten himself into trouble. I'm taking the ship into orbit while we try to sort things out.
NEELIX: Be prepared to be intercepted by Numiri patrols. They always try to intimidate travelers to the Banean planet.
JANEWAY: The stakes are too high to send a shuttlecraft this time. I want to show our flag to make it clear we mean business.
NEELIX: I understand.
JANEWAY: Based on your experience, what can we expect the Numiri to do to intimidate us?
NEELIX: To be honest, whenever I saw the Numiri coming, I always left before the intimidation began. However, I know from knowledgeable sources that they have directed energy weapons comparable to your own. Our own, that is. Plus regenerative shields that may even give them a certain advantage over us in a firefight.
JANEWAY: Tell me about them as a people. Are they aggressive, technical, intellectual, emotional? Anything that might help me deal with them.
NEELIX: The Numiri and the Banea are quite different from one another, even though they once coexisted on the same planet. That's why I recommended the Banea to you in the first place. The Numiri have a remarkably covert society.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain to the Bridge.
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We're scanning a Numiri vessel approaching. They're at combat readiness, Captain.
JANEWAY: Shields up. On screen. Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: A standard patrol vessel. Curious.
JANEWAY: Why?
NEELIX: I would've expected them to send out more than one tiny patrol to meet a ship like this.
JANEWAY: Let's hope it's a positive sign. Hail them.
TUVOK: They're responding.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. I am Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager.
CAPTAIN (screen): What is your business in this system?
JANEWAY: One of my crewmen is being held on the Banean planet. We're on our way to investigate.
CAPTAIN (screen): Consider this official notice that you are entering a war zone. You do so at your own risk.
JANEWAY: Understood.
CAPTAIN (screen): Any attempt to provide aid or supplies to the Banea will be considered an act of war against the Numiri.
JANEWAY: You have my word that we intend to remain neutral in your conflict. Our only interest is in our own crewman.
CAPTAIN (screen): Proceed. Your activities will be monitored.
NEELIX: Very, very curious. In Numiri terms, that greeting was downright friendly.
JANEWAY: Have all security stations remain at full alert. Continue long range scans for Numiri patrols around the clock.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Take us into orbit.

[Minister Kray's office]
KRAY: Captain. It's unfortunate we must meet under these circumstances.
JANEWAY: My chief of security, Lieutenant Tuvok.
KRAY: Please.
JANEWAY: Exactly what are these circumstances, Minister? All we know is that a member of our crew has been accused of murder.
KRAY: Oh, I'm afraid he's been more than just accused. He's been convicted and punished according to our law.
JANEWAY: What form of punishment?
KRAY: The perpetrator of a murder is forced to relive the crime through his victim's eyes.
TUVOK: How is this achieved?
KRAY: I can have our Chief Medical officer describe the procedure in detail if you wish. We have the capability of isolating memory engrams in the brain. We take them from the final moments of life. After they're used in the trial, they're transplanted into the perpetrator's brain.
JANEWAY: These memories are used in the trial as evidence?
KRAY: An artificial life form serves as host to the engrams and testifies to their content. In this case, the victim's last memories clearly show Mister Paris caught in an embarrassing episode with Mrs Ren. An argument ensues. Paris is then seen by the victim's own eyes, killing him. The evidence of his guilt is incontrovertible.

[Room]
PARIS: Captain.
JANEWAY: Are you all right, Tom?
PARIS: I've been better.
TUVOK: May we speak to him alone?
KRAY: Of course.
PARIS: The rehab colony back in New Zealand doesn't seem so bad right now.
TUVOK: Lieutenant, did you murder Professor Ren?
PARIS: No!
JANEWAY: But the victim's own eyes identified
PARIS: You don't have to tell me what the victim's own eyes saw, Captain. I don't understand it either, but I did not kill him.
TUVOK: Were you having improper relations with his wife?
PARIS: Their marriage was over. She told Ren they were finished the same day he was killed.
TUVOK: That does not answer my question.
PARIS: Nothing happened between us. Almost nothing.
JANEWAY: Tom, it's very important you tell us everything. Harry said you spent some time with Mrs Ren while he and the professor were working.
PARIS: I was bored. You know how it is when two science guys get together.

[The Ren's home]
PARIS (voiceover): I came out of the other room, looked over and saw her in the atrium. Her eyes were a million kilometers away, staring at stars I'd just flown by the day before.
PARIS: Smoking is a bad habit. My species gave it up centuries ago when we finally got it into our heads it was killing us.
LIDELL: You must be a very superior species.
PARIS: That's not what I meant.
LIDELL: Maybe I kill myself slowly because I don't have the courage to do it quickly.
PARIS: Now why would you go and say a thing like that?
LIDELL: Don't.
PARIS: What?
LIDELL: Don't get involved, Lieutenant.
PARIS: I was just trying to
LIDELL: You'll be sorry.
PARIS: Look, I was just bored to tears in the other room and I thought you might like to talk.
LIDELL: Why don't you go ahead and ask me?
PARIS: Ask you what?
LIDELL: What you've been wanting to ask me all night. What they all want to ask me. Why I'd marry a man old enough to be my father.
PARIS: I'd be lying if I said I hadn't been wondering.
LIDELL: He was good to me. A lot of other men weren't.
PARIS: That sounds like a good enough reason to me.
LIDELL: He's a good man. I would never do anything to hurt him.
PARIS: I guess that makes you a good woman.
LIDELL: Good can get very boring.

[Tolen's memory]
LIDELL: No, Tom! Don't!

[Room]
PARIS: No, I

[Tolen's memory]
LIDELL: Stop! No!

[Room]
JANEWAY: What's going on?
PARIS: No! No!
TUVOK: Apparently, he's entering another cycle.
JANEWAY: Is this normal?
EMH: We had some problems integrating the Banean engrams into his alien neurology. This is the first time he's lost consciousness since the implant.
JANEWAY: I'd like to take him back with us to our medical facility.
KRAY: I'm sorry, but I can't authorize that.
EMH: Perhaps we should consider her request, Minister. We don't want to risk general synaptic failure. Their doctors might be better suited to stabilize his condition.
KRAY: All right, but you're not to leave orbit with him.
JANEWAY: Minister, we don't intend to leave orbit until we prove his innocence.
TUVOK: Away team to Voyager. Three to beam up.

[Sickbay]
EMH: It's medicine clearly beyond anything we've ever encountered before. What bothers me the most is the neural pathway damage it seems to be causing. It appears to be progressive.
JANEWAY: Then this punishment could actually be causing serious brain damage.
EMH: How long it might be before he's seriously affected, I really have no idea.
TUVOK: I would appreciate receiving a copy of your neurological analysis, Doctor.
EMH: It's extremely technical. To the layman, it would be virtually indecipherable.
TUVOK: Nevertheless, I will want to examine it in detail.
JANEWAY: This might be the basis for an appeal of the sentence, don't you think?
TUVOK: Perhaps. However, before the neural implants were developed, the Banean punishment for murder was lethal injection. It is possible they would view that as the only alternative sentence in this case.
KES: Will he regain consciousness?
EMH: I believe so. But each time the cycle repeats, I'm afraid his brain will take another damaging blow.
TUVOK: When he wakes up, I will require an autonomic response analysis while I question him again, Doctor.
KES: Do you really think Tom would lie to us?
TUVOK: As an investigator, I do not have the freedom to ignore any possibility. Mister Paris maintains his innocence, yet the victim has identified him from the grave, and the victim's wife has testified against him at the trial. Someone is obviously lying. An ARA will tell us if it is Mister Paris.
EMH: I'll have it ready for you.
TUVOK: In the meantime, Captain, I request permission to return to the surface.
JANEWAY: What do you have in mind, Tuvok?
TUVOK: I would like to examine the murder scene and speak with Mrs Ren.

[The Ren's home]
TUVOK: Mrs Ren?
LIDELL: Yes?
TUVOK: I'm Lieutenant Tuvok of the Starship Voyager. Would you mind if I asked you a few questions?
LIDELL: Are you a friend of Tom's?
TUVOK: I am the Starfleet Chief of Security investigating his alleged participation in your husband's murder.
LIDELL: Stop it, Neeka! She just doesn't like strangers.
TUVOK: Based on your testimony, I assume this is where the murder occurred.
LIDELL: Yes, right there. I had to have a professional cleaning crew come in to remove the bloodstain.
TUVOK: You chose to remain in the house after an act of such violence occurred?
LIDELL: This has been my home for over ten years, Mister Tuvok. Do you really find that so hard to believe?
TUVOK: I am a Vulcan, Mrs Ren. By nature, we are a dispassionate people. It is rare to encounter someone as dispassionate as we are.
LIDELL: Dispassionate? Is that how I seem to you? I think you'd get an argument from Tom Paris. Can I get you a drink?
TUVOK: Thank you, no.
LIDELL: Mind if I have one?
TUVOK: Please. You testified at the trial that you and your husband had an argument the afternoon before he was killed.
LIDELL: I never said there was an argument, Lieutenant. Have you ever had to end a marriage?
TUVOK: No.
LIDELL: Are you married?
TUVOK: My wife and I have been married for sixty seven years.
LIDELL: I'm sure she's a fine, dispassionate woman. I hope you never have to find out for yourself, but I can tell you, ending a marriage, it's a quiet thing. The arguments are long over and there's really nothing much left to say at all.
TUVOK: May I ask why you decided at this time to end your marriage to Professor Ren?
LIDELL: Because I was attracted to another man. I didn't want to deceive my husband.
TUVOK: That other man was Lieutenant Paris. Lieutenant Paris would have been departing this planet in a few days, and yet you left your husband of ten years for him.
LIDELL: Meeting Tom gave me the push I needed. I already knew in my heart that it was time to start over.
TUVOK: Exactly when did you see Mister Paris on the day of the murder?
LIDELL: I went to see him at the Engineering Institute after I talked with my husband. Once I was free, I knew he wanted to be with me.
TUVOK: How did you know?
LIDELL: A woman knows, Lieutenant.
LIDELL (voiceover): He left his friend Harry to finish the technical research and walk me home. We were caught in a cloudburst on the way.
LIDELL: I'm completely soaked!
PARIS: There must be a centimeter of water in my boots.
LIDELL: Here, let me help you.
PARIS: We shouldn't.
LIDELL: It's okay. He knows it's over.
PARIS: But you're still a married woman.
LIDELL: I haven't been married for years, Tom. To him, I'm a friend, a companion. He hasn't treated me like a woman since, it must've been the day of the eclipse four years ago.
PARIS: Eclipse?
LIDELL: He was very excited by the eclipse. Don't ask me why.
PARIS: Our timing's just a little off.
LIDELL: You'll be gone in a few days. This is the only time we've got. Let me make you something to warm you up. I love to drink Marob root tea on rainy afternoons.
LIDELL: I made some tea, we talked for a while, then we went out to the atrium to watch the storm and the rest you know.
TUVOK: Did you leave the room at any time during the fight between your husband and Lieutenant Paris?
LIDELL: I saw Tom murder my husband, Mister Tuvok. I tried to stop him. I couldn't.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Voyager to Tuvok.
TUVOK: This is Lieutenant Tuvok.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Mister Paris has regained consciousness. I thought you'd want to know.
TUVOK: Thank you. I'll be returning shortly. Tuvok out. Thank you for your help, Mrs Ren.
LIDELL: Lieutenant, when you see Tom, would you tell him that I forgive him?

[Sickbay]
PARIS: Everything she told you is true, except I don't remember going into the atrium or anything else after that.
TUVOK: The last thing you remember is?
PARIS: Sitting with her, drinking tea, talking about the sensual effects of eclipses. After that, I must've fallen asleep. When I woke up, I was in a cell.
EMH: He's telling you the truth.
TUVOK: Was there any evidence of a sedative in his system when he returned here?
EMH: The Banean medical authorities checked him. They didn't find any drugs in his blood. Most narcotics would've been gone from his system by the time he got to me.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Tuvok. You're needed on the Bridge. We're under attack by Numiri patrols.
TUVOK: On my way, Commander.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Evasive pattern, beta one four zero. Dual attack mode.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive pattern confirmed.
KIM: They're attempting to lock a tractor beam on us.
NEELIX: That is a standard tactic for the Numiri when they intend to board your vessel. Well, at least now you know I was telling the truth about them, Captain. Although I take no pleasure in being right, mind you.
JANEWAY: But why now? Why an unprovoked attack? What are they after?
NEELIX: The Numiri have never needed an excuse to attack anyone.
KIM: Shields at ninety percent and holding.
JANEWAY: Commander, prepare to initiate attack maneuver kappa zero one zero.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, if you don't mind, there's a Maquis trick we sometimes used to get out of situations like this.
JANEWAY: Be my guest.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna. Remember Teluridian Four? The two Starfleet runabouts?
TORRES: I'm with you. Blowing out the dorsal phase emitters. Torres to Engineering.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Go ahead.
TORRES: Vent a couple of LN2 exhaust conduits along the dorsal emitters. Make it look like we're in serious trouble.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Understood.
CHAKOTAY: Cut all engines.
TORRES: Engines off-line.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, lock phasers on their navigational deflectors.
TUVOK: Acknowledged. Numiri ships are closing. Four thousand kilometers.
JANEWAY: Not to belittle Maquis tactics, Commander, but this is a very old trick.
CHAKOTAY: It worked against those Starfleet runabouts.
JANEWAY: You're lucky I wasn't commanding one of them.
TUVOK: Two thousand kilometers.
CHAKOTAY: Besides, out here in the Delta quadrant, every old trick is new again.
TUVOK: One thousand five hundred kilometers.
KIM: They're sending out tractor beams again.
CHAKOTAY: That's our cue. Fire phasers. Engage impulse engines.
TUVOK: Both Numiri vessels are disabled, Captain.
JANEWAY: That's one trick you won't be able to use again when we get back.
CHAKOTAY: I have more.
JANEWAY: Cancel red alert. Take us into high orbit.
NEELIX: Captain. More Numiri will be coming, I promise you.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok. Any progress with your investigation?
TUVOK: Based on the ARA, I am convinced Lieutenant Paris believes what he is saying. However, I can offer no tangible evidence on his behalf. Considering the urgency of the situation, I believe the only logical alternative at this time is to witness the crime myself.
CHAKOTAY: Yourself?
TUVOK: I propose a mind meld with Lieutenant Paris.
NEELIX: A, a what? What, what did he say? A mind what?

[Sickbay]
EMH: Let me tell you something, Lieutenant. Believe it or not, I know more about mind melds than you do. I know what every Vulcan doctor has said in every study of mind melds, and I still cannot tell you what will happen if you do this. If these cycles cause damage to a human brain, there's no telling what the risk might be to a Vulcan.
TUVOK: I've examined your neurological reports, Doctor, and I believe the risk is acceptable.
JANEWAY: Tuvok
TUVOK: Captain, the answers I seek can only be found in the eyes of the murdered man. It may be our only chance to prove Lieutenant Paris innocent.
KES: Tom?

[Tolen's memory]
LIDELL: Tolen!
TOLEN: Now I understand.
PARIS: I'd better be on my way.
LIDELL: You don't have to go, Tom. He's got no right.
TOLEN: No right? This is my home. You come into my home and steal my wife, and I have no right?
PARIS: That's not the way it happened.
TOLEN: We'll see what your captain has to say about this. When I'm finished with you, you'll never wear that uniform again.
PARIS: I can't let you do that.
LIDELL: No, Tom, don't! Stop! No!

[Sickbay]
EMH: The cycle's ended. No neural damage that I can detect.
TUVOK: Captain, I must consult with Ensign Kim immediately.
JANEWAY: With Kim? Why?
TUVOK: I assume he has access to Professor Ren's research. I believe it will explain not only why Lieutenant Paris has been accused of a murder he did not commit, but also why the Numiri chose to attack us.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: His condition has continued to deteriorate. He'll have serious brain damage if the implants are not removed.
KRAY (screen): We are not a barbaric people, Captain. This was meant as punishment, not torture. I see no alternative but to remove the implants, do you?
EMH (screen): There is no legal precedent, of course, but we can petition the courts immediately.
KRAY (screen): I cannot assure you'll find an alternative sentence more to your liking.
JANEWAY: We're still committed to proving his innocence, Minister.
KRAY (screen): When do you intend to return him to our custody?
JANEWAY: Due to the nature of his condition, we're concerned that our transporting device might cause further medical complications, so we're sending him back by shuttlecraft. They'll leave this ship in one hour.
EMH (screen): I'll make the necessary preparations.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: This is all your fault, you know.
KIM: My fault?
PARIS: Yeah. I consider you the conscience I never had. You're supposed to keep me on the straight and narrow.
KIM: I tried to warn you.
PARIS: Funny, so did she.
KIM: If it had been me, I would've stayed as far away from her as possible.
PARIS: Someday it will be you, Harry. You'll meet her, and you'll know it's wrong from the first moment you see her, and you'll know there's nothing you can do about it.
KIM: Here they come.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Numiri patrol approaching, bearing zero six seven, mark two four.
JANEWAY: Red alert. On screen.
TUVOK: Range, one hundred thousand kilometers and closing. They're changing course, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: They're going straight for the shuttle, just as you said they would, Lieutenant.

[Shuttlecraft]
KIM: Shuttle to Voyager. They've locked a tractor beam on us.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Offer

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: No resistance, Harry.
KIM (voiceover): Acknowledged.
PARIS (voiceover): Hey, Tuvok, I know it's a little late to ask, but you're sure you've got the logic of this thing worked out?
TUVOK: If I am incorrect, we will know it shortly.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: Ah. That makes me feel a whole lot better.
KIM: We're being boarded.
CAPTAIN: He's the one.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. You have illegally seized one of our shuttlecraft.
CAPTAIN (screen): I warned you that you were entering a war zone at your own risk.
JANEWAY: Yes, we appreciated that warning and took appropriate precautions. If you read the sensor readouts in front of you, you will see that the shuttle is carrying forty tons of thalmerite explosives. Enough to destroy your ship. I'm prepared to detonate those explosives in thirty seconds if you do not release our vessel. End transmission.
CHAKOTAY: The shuttle's being released. The Numiri ship is withdrawing.
JANEWAY: Tractor the shuttle and take us into low orbit. Cancel red alert. Mister Paris, how soon before your next cycle?
PARIS: Seven hours.
JANEWAY: That should be enough time to clear this up. Mister Tuvok, this is your show now.
TUVOK: With your permission, I would like to invite all interested parties to meet at the scene of the murder in two hours.
JANEWAY: I'll invite the Minister myself.

[The Ren's home]
TUVOK: Lieutenant Paris was not the man Professor Ren saw before he was murdered.
KRAY: Not the man? But it was clearly established at the trial.
TUVOK: It is true, Paris's image was seen in the memories examined during the trial. However, that is because someone altered the engrams from Professor Ren's brain.
EMH: But that simply isn't possible for this procedure.
TUVOK: I would suggest, sir, that there is no such thing as a technology that is entirely safe from tampering.
LIDELL: You're forgetting one thing. I was here and I saw him do it.
TUVOK: On the contrary. I have not forgotten your statement, Mrs Ren. However, I now know it is clearly false.
PARIS: Just what was in that tea you gave me, Lidell?
KRAY: Is this just idle speculation, or do you have some evidence?
TUVOK: Mister Paris, would you please stand next to Mrs Ren?
LIDELL: What for?
TUVOK: If you wouldn't mind. The man Professor Ren observed with his wife was virtually equal in height to her. Clearly, Lieutenant Paris is several centimeters taller.
LIDELL: How do you know what my husband saw?
TUVOK: Vulcans have the ability to meld telepathically with another's mind. I observed your husband's memories as Lieutenant Paris went through a cycle. I watched as the killer stabbed Professor Ren right here, through the intercostal space between the eighth and ninth right ribs, the exact location of the Banean heart. The killer clearly knew Banean anatomy. Lieutenant Paris did not.
EMH: Are we supposed to take your word for all of this?
TUVOK: There is additional evidence. For example, we can now say for certain that Professor Ren was murdered by a Numiri agent.
KRAY: What?
TUVOK: Lieutenant, did you notice the stream of symbols and numbers that were superimposed on the images?
PARIS: Symbols? Well, yeah, I guess I did. I didn't know what they meant. I thought they were part of the procedure.
TUVOK: In researching this procedure, I found no other reference to this phenomenon. I have now confirmed that these symbols and numbers were equations taken from Professor Ren's weapons research. Someone intended them to be delivered to the Numiri.
KRAY: You're saying somebody used his brain to send secret data to our enemy?
TUVOK: He was a logical courier. The Numiri agents knew he could leave the planet's surface without raising suspicion. The Numiri made two attempts to gain access to Mister Paris. They attacked just after he returned to Voyager, and then again when he was in the shuttle.
JANEWAY: Someone on the surface had to be informing the Numiri of Lieutenant Paris's movements.
KRAY: Do you know who did this?
TUVOK: You knew when Mister Paris would be in transit, Minister. The doctor is the one who encouraged you to release him to our custody. He is also the one who performed the implant procedure. I know of no one else who had the opportunity and knowledge to carry out this plan.
EMH: I'm not going to listen to any of this.
KRAY: I really would like you to listen, doctor.
TUVOK: Would you please stand again, Mrs Ren?
EMH: So we're the same height. It proves nothing. I never saw this woman prior to the death of her husband. I was never even in this house before today.
TUVOK: You forget the other witness who was here on the night of the murder, Doctor. Would you mind asking her to come in?
TUVOK: It appears that you are no stranger to Neeka, doctor.
LIDELL: He lied to me, Tom. No one was supposed to get hurt. You know I could never do anything to hurt you.
PARIS: Yeah, you could.

[Mess Hall]
PARIS: Tuvok.
TUVOK: Mister Paris.
PARIS: There are some who'd say you risked my future on the eyewitness identification of a dog.
TUVOK: It seemed a necessary step to ensure a truthful resolution.
PARIS: Well, I appreciate you sticking up for me. I owe you one.
TUVOK: I conducted a criminal investigation. If you had been guilty, I assure you I would have pursued the truth just as vigilantly. You have no debt to me, Mister Paris.
PARIS: How come I always see you down here eating alone, Lieutenant?
TUVOK: I prefer to read rather than engage in, what do humans call it? Short talk?
PARIS: Close enough. You don't make many friends that way.
TUVOK: Perhaps.
PARIS: Well, like it or not, you've made one today, Mister Tuvok.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48623.5. There are two hundred forty six elements known to Federation science. We believe we have just discovered the two hundred forty seventh inside the ring system of a Class D planet.

[Bridge]
KIM: The element has an unusually large atomic mass, over five hundred and fifty nucleons. And the readings are constant. The element appears to be stable.
JANEWAY: A stable transuranic element inside a natural environment. This is a first.
TORRES: Can you imagine what we could make with this stuff? Probe casings that could go into the core of a sun, ultra-thin reactor shielding.
JANEWAY: That's assuming we can mine it. Ensign, try and locate the highest concentration of the element.
KIM: The element is present in most of the asteroids that comprise the rings. I can isolate a sample and beam it aboard.
TORRES: Or better yet, maybe we could get a firsthand look at this element in its natural environment. It looks like most of these asteroids support Class M atmospheres.
JANEWAY: Good idea. Commander, you're in charge.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain. Mister Kim, would you like to join us?
KIM: I wouldn't miss it, sir.

[Asteroid tunnel]
KIM: The highest concentration is about thirty meters directly ahead.
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking up a large cavern in there. The readings are
CHAKOTAY: What the hell is this?
TORRES: It's organic. Some kind of biopolymer residue.
CHAKOTAY: I want to see what's ahead.

[Cavern]
TORRES: The readings are higher over here, but I still can't find the source of the. Commander? Class five humanoid. It appears to be dead.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, there are eighteen bodies here, all humanoid. Eleven male, seven female. From what we can tell they're in various stages of decomposition. Some have been here for years.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Others no longer than a few days. In fact, one body arrived less than twelve hours ago.
JANEWAY: Arrived from where?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I don't know, Captain.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: But from the position of the arms, I'd say we're looking at some kind of burial site.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What about the element we discovered?

[Cavern]
TORRES: It's emanating from their bodies, Captain. We think it's some kind of

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): By-product of their decomposition process.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I recommend we leave these bodies in peace, Captain.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: However, Mister Kim has a different opinion.
KIM: With all due respect, Captain, I have to disagree with the Commander. This is our first contact with this race, and I think we should be learning all we can about them.

[Bridge]
KIM (voiceover): It's a unique anthropological opportunity.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I understand the chance for scientific discovery, Captain

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: But whatever belief this race has, they clearly meant for their dead to be left alone and I think we should respect that.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I agree with Commander Chakotay. Set your tricorders for passive scans. I don't want to disturb anything.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: The sanctity of these bodies should be respected. I recommend we make visual observations only. No tricorders.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Very well. Keep me informed.

[Cavern]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway out.
CHAKOTAY: All right. The only sensors you have left are your eyes. Concentrate on details. We're going to have to do a thorough report when we get back.
KIM: Commander, thanks for letting me voice my opinion to the Captain.
CHAKOTAY: I remember the first time I went on a tomb excavation on Ktaria Seven. I wanted to keep a memento of the experience, so I picked up a rock from the burial site. Only I found out later it wasn't just a rock.
KIM: What was it?
CHAKOTAY: It was a sacred stone. The Ktarians lay thousands of them in the tomb. Each one represents a special prayer. Without realizing it, I had desecrated that man's grave.
TORRES: Well, I think I've found out about all I can with my eyes.
CHAKOTAY: Really? What have you learned about this culture so far?
TORRES: They like to bury their dead on asteroids. That's about all I can tell without a tricorder. No artifacts, no inscriptions, just some naked dead people.
CHAKOTAY: You're looking but you're not seeing. The fact that they're naked says a lot. It means this race doesn't believe in dressing the deceased. And the lack of artifacts could indicate they don't believe any worldly goods can be taken into the afterlife.
KIM: What makes you think they believe in an afterlife at all?
CHAKOTAY: Look at the position of the arms and hands. The bodies have been arranged in poses of serenity, and they appear to be wrapped in the same biopolymer residue we found out in the passageway, all indications that this culture has a great deal of ritual associated with disposing of the dead. That normally indicates some belief in the afterlife.
TORRES: The Klingons believe in an afterlife, but there's no burial ritual. They just dispose of the corpse by the most efficient means possible.
CHAKOTAY: Good point. However, some archeological digs on the Klingon Homeworld
CHAKOTAY: Tricorders!
KIM: A dimensional distortion is forming. Some kind of subspace vacuole.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. Emergency beam-out.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We're having trouble locking onto your signals. Stand by.

[Transporter room]
SESKA: Have everyone stand closer together. I'm going to try a blind beam-out

[Cavern]
SESKA (voiceover): Centerd on your comm. signal.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. Energize!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Bridge to Transporter Room Three. Do you have them?
SESKA (voiceover): Subspace distortions

[Transporter room]
SESKA: From the vacuole are interfering with the transporter lock. I'm

[Bridge]
SESKA (voiceover): Attempting to compensate.

[Transporter room]
SESKA: Okay. I think I've got them. Chakotay and Lieutenant Torres are aboard. So is one of the humanoid bodies.

[Bridge]
SESKA (voiceover): But there's no sign of Ensign Kim.
JANEWAY: Scan the asteroid.
TUVOK: No life signs, Captain. I'm broadening the scan. Nothing. He is nowhere in the entire asteroid field.
JANEWAY: Seska, initiate emergency transport procedure

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Twenty one alpha.
SESKA: I'm already on it, Captain. It's no use. His pattern's gone.

[Bridge]
SESKA (voiceover): And the subspace vacuole has disappeared. I'm looking at the transporter logs. My only guess is

[Transporter room]
SESKA: He was pulled into the vacuole.
TORRES: This isn't one of the bodies we found in the cavern. It's someone else.
CHAKOTAY: This body might have come out of the vacuole at the same time Kim was taken in.
TORRES: Wait a minute. I'm showing signs of electrical activity in the brain. It looks like she died just a few minutes ago. We might be able to revive her. If we can, we might get some answers.
CHAKOTAY: We can't interfere with this woman's natural process of death.
TORRES: What do you suggest we do, Commander? Kim's gone. She's the only one who might be able to tell us what happened.
CHAKOTAY: Beam us directly to Sickbay.
SESKA: Aye, Commander.

[Cenotaph room]
RENORA: Death is the end of this life. But it is also the beginning of a new journey. Ptera will now thrive in the Next Emanation. This is both her sacred duty and her great privilege.
ALL: Hail Ptera!
RENORA: As she begins her transition, we promise to carry memories of her so that when we enter the
KIM (voiceover): Help! Get me out of here!
RENORA: She's alive! Deactivate the cenotaph, quickly!
KIM: Let me out!

[Waiting area]
LORIA: Here it is.
HATIL: Thanks. A lot of memories in this.
LORIA: We're so proud of you, Hatil. This is such a generous, selfless act.
HATIL: It's my last gift for you and the children.
LORIA: And it's one we will always cherish. But I'm still going to miss you.
HATIL: I know. I'll miss you too. But I'll see you in the Next Emanation when you're ready to join me.
LORIA: Give my love to your father. Tell him that the garili trees he planted have, have been in bloom for three years straight.
HATIL: I will. Goodbye.
LORIA: Goodbye.
RENORA: Lie down. It's going to be all right. We won't harm you.
HATIL: Who is that?
RENORA: We're not sure yet. We think he came from the Next Emanation.
HATIL: The Next Emanation? You mean he's come back?
KIM: Come back from where?
RENORA: We've called for the thanatologist. He'll be here any moment. I don't think there should be any further discussion about this until he arrives.
HATIL: How did you get here?
KIM: I'm not sure. I just sort of woke up inside one of those pods. I was conducting an investigation on an asteroid, we found some dead bodies, then there was some kind of subspace phenomenon.
HATIL: What do you mean, you saw dead people there?
NERIA: I'm Doctor Neria, the chief thanatologist of this facility.
KIM: Ensign Harry Kim of the Federation starship Voyager.
NERIA: I see. What race are you from?
KIM: We call ourselves human. We come from a planet called Earth in a distant part of the galaxy.
HATIL: He said he saw dead people on an asteroid.
NERIA: Dead?
KIM: Look, can you tell me where I am?
HATIL: Doctor, what does this mean?
NERIA: Rest, Hatil. There's no need for concern. May I speak to you privately, Ensign Harry?
KIM: Just Harry's fine.
NERIA: We are the Vhnori and this is our homeworld.
KIM: We were investigating one of the asteroids in the rings around your planet.
NERIA: There are no rings around our world.
KIM: So the subspace vacuole must have transported me somewhere else. Do you have any star charts I could look at? I'd like to figure out where I am now in relation to where I was.
NERIA: Where you are now is in the world of the living. Where you came from was another dimension.
KIM: Another dimension?
NERIA: Yes. You returned from the Next Emanation. The afterlife.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: How were you able to revive her?
EMH: It's a simple process, really. She died of a cancerous growth on the brain stem. I removed the tumor, replicated new neural tissue and used the standard Starfleet postmortem resuscitation technique for a class five life form.
JANEWAY: Why was she covered with this biopolymer?
EMH: She wasn't covered with it, exactly. The biopolymer is a by-product of her own tissues.
JANEWAY: Explain.
EMH: As her tissues decayed, the cell membranes broke down into a biopolymer resin which was then excreted by her epidermal layer. My guess is it's a natural decomposition process for this species.
CHAKOTAY: So the other biopolymer fibers we found in the cavern were
EMH: Were probably the result of other bodies that had decomposed and left a residual membrane. In essence, Commander, you were strolling through dead bodies.
JANEWAY: Can you wake her?
EMH: Yes, of course. Kes, two cc's of netinaline.
EMH: Hello.
JANEWAY: I know this must be very confusing for you, but you're all right. My name is Kathryn Janeway.
PTERA: I'm Ptera. Where's my brother?
JANEWAY: Your brother? I'm afraid he's not here.
PTERA: But he's supposed to be here. They're all supposed to be here.
JANEWAY: Ptera, we were able to remove the tumor from your brain. You're going to be all right. We revived you because one of our
PTERA: This is the Next Emanation? This is the afterlife?
JANEWAY: No. No, it's not. You're on a starship.
PTERA: This can't be right. My brother's supposed to be here. Something's wrong.
JANEWAY: Let me explain.
PTERA: No. No! Get away from me. This isn't right. This can't be right!

[Cenotaph room]
KIM: You're saying there was a woman in here just before I arrived?
NERIA: That's right. Her name was Ptera. She was dying of a tumorous lesion to her midbrain.
KIM: Dying. So she wasn't dead yet?
NERIA: No, of course not. She didn't die until the cenotaph was activated. That's the purpose of the cenotaph. It terminates a person's life just before the appearance of a spectral rupture and then it allows their body to be taken to the Next Emanation.
KIM: Spectral rupture.
NERIA: Well, I can show you.
KIM: This looks like what we would call a subspace vacuole. Does the cenotaph create these ruptures?
NERIA: No, they're natural occurrences, once every six hours. This entire complex was built on this site because a spectral rupture occurs here. There are thousands of such sites on our world. Forgive my curiosity, Harry, but, you are the first person ever to come back from the afterlife. I have quite a few questions. You said that you saw dead bodies?
KIM: That's right. There were seven females, eleven males. Some of the bodies had been there for years, others just for a few days.
NERIA: Are you saying that when we die we go to some asteroid and decompose?
KIM: Well, that's what it looked liked to us.
NERIA: These bodies, did you perform any kind of bioscans on them? Was there any specific medical data that you can remember?
KIM: Doctor, maybe I should just stop right there. This is what my people call a first contact situation, and we've learned to be very careful about how much we tell alien cultures we've just met.
NERIA: I would like to start a complete bioanalysis as soon as possible. If you'll just follow Doctor Renora.
KIM: Bioanalysis? Look, all I want to do is get back to my ship. And I think there might be a way to use this spectral rupture of yours to
NERIA: You're not going anywhere. You are our first glimpse into what lies beyond death. We are not going to let this opportunity pass us by.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We've completed our analysis of the ring system. Our sensors have detected over two hundred thousand alien bodies on various asteroids in the rings. From what we can tell, a subspace vacuole appears about every two hours, deposits a body and then disappears.
JANEWAY: We need to focus on those vacuoles. Concentrate on trying to probe them with a high resolution subspace scans. See if you can find any sign of Mister Kim.
EMH (voiceover): Sick bay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
EMH (voiceover): Our guest has regained consciousness, and she is a little calmer this time.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way. You have the Bridge.

[Sickbay]
PTERA: That's, that's all I know. I'm sorry. I can't tell you anything more.
JANEWAY: You've told me quite a bit. At least now I have an idea of what might have happened to Mister Kim. Is there anything I can do for you?
PTERA: Well, I'd, I'd like some answers.
JANEWAY: About what?
PTERA: About what happens to my people when we die.
JANEWAY: We're not sure exactly. But from what we do know, the vacuoles deposit the bodies on the asteroids in this ring system.
PTERA: And then what?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure what you mean.
PTERA: We're supposed to evolve into a higher level of consciousness when we die. We're supposed to gain a greater understanding of the universe. All of our questions are supposed to be answered.
JANEWAY: Ptera, I know this must be frightening for you. You've been through a very traumatic experience. It would frighten me. But please try to understand. Just because I don't have the answers to your questions doesn't mean there aren't any.
PTERA: My brother. I always thought I'd see him again. I had so many things to tell him about his children, the people he left behind. But he isn't here, is he? He's. So, what am I supposed to do now, spend the rest of my life on this, this starship?
JANEWAY: Ptera, I am going to do everything in my power to figure out just how you got here. And as soon as I know anything, I will tell you, all right?
PTERA: All right.
KES: Maybe we should get out of Sickbay, let you walk around for a while, clear your mind. Maybe get something to eat. Are you hungry?
PTERA: Yes. Actually, I could use something to eat. What was that?
JANEWAY: Janeway to Bridge. Report.

[Bridge]
PARIS: There's some kind of dimensional distortion forming near main Engineering, Captain. It looks like

[Sickbay]
PARIS (voiceover): A subspace vacuole.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Engineering. B'Elanna, what's going on?

[Engineering]
TORRES: I've pinpointed the location, Captain. It's right here in Engineering. Stand by.

[Waiting room]
LORIA: Hatil, what are you saying?
HATIL: I'm just not sure I'm ready, that's all.
LORIA: I don't understand.
HATIL: Neither do I. It's just that I'm starting to wonder what really happens when we die, if I'm really going on to a higher level of consciousness.
LORIA: The alien. What has he been telling you?
HATIL: All he's done is made me stop and think about something we've always taken for granted, and now that I've thought about it, I'm not so eager to go through with it anymore.
LORIA: Hatil, we know nothing about him, or why he's come here, or why he's spreading lies about the Next Emanation. All I know is, you can't throw away a lifetime of belief because of him. It doesn't make sense.
HATIL: I don't know what to think anymore. I'm scared, Loria.
LORIA: It's going to be all right. Think about your father. He's waiting for you. I'll see you at the transference ritual. I don't know who you are or where you come from, but you stay away from my husband.
KIM: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to.
HATIL: Harry, you have to forgive my wife. She's having trouble understanding my concerns about the afterlife. That's why I'm here. I'm getting ready to die. Forgive me for asking again but can you tell me anything about what I might find in the Next Emanation?
KIM: Everyone keeps asking me that, and I just keep giving the same answer. I don't know.
HATIL: But you do come from the afterlife?
KIM: I come from a different reality, maybe another dimension. Maybe it is your afterlife. I don't know. All I do know is that there are countless billions of people there who are born, live and die, just like you do here.
HATIL: But you did see my people there? You said they were dead?
KIM: Yes, but, look, for all I know, your thanatologists are right, and all I saw were the corporeal remains of your people, and you do go on to a higher consciousness.
HATIL: But it's also possible that there is no higher existence for us, that when we die we simply cease to exist.
KIM: I, I really can't say. I don't know what happens to your people after they die. I don't even know what happens to my people after they die.
HATIL: Don't you have thanatologists, people who study death?
KIM: Well, sort of. There have certainly been medical experts, philosophers, theologians who have spent a great deal of time debating what happens after death. But no one's come up with an answer yet.
HATIL: My people have come to think of death as just another stage of our existence. There are some people who are even eager to die. If they feel depressed or lonely in this life, they simply move on to the next one.
KIM: Is that why you're here? Because you're not happy with your life?
HATIL: Ever since the er, accident, life hasn't been easy. But I have to say, this is more my family's idea than it is mine.
KIM: Your family?
HATIL: I'm a burden to them right now. It takes a lot of their time and resources to care for me, and I can't give much back to them. So, there was a family meeting and it was agreed that I should move on to the Next Emanation. You look appalled.
KIM: It's not my place to judge your culture, but from my perspective, it's a little chiling to hear that.
HATIL: Even though the family did it out of love, and everyone was happy for me, and they said they'd see me when they got to the Next Emanation, I have to admit there is a little voice inside of me that is terrified of dying. And since I've been talking to you, that little voice has started to get louder.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: I'm reading another vacuole forming on the ship. Tuvok, try remodulating the shield harmonics.
TUVOK: It's no use, Captain. The vacuole is still forming.
TUVOK: Take the body to the ship's morgue.
JANEWAY: This is odd. Three bodies have appeared on Voyager so far, and each one of them has released some kind of neural energy. In every case, the energy has passed through the hull and out into the rings. The energy's frequency is identical to the ambient radiation in the asteroid field.
TORRES: The vacuoles are disrupting the warp core's magnetic interlocks. It won't be long before we lose antimatter containment.
JANEWAY: The vacuoles have all formed within twenty meters of the warp core. They might be attracted to it. Janeway to Bridge. Mister Paris, lay in a course. I want to get

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): At least a half a light year away. Warp seven.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. Paris to Janeway. I've brought us out of warp. We're point six light years from the ring system.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Any other subspace vacuoles forming?
TORRES: No. The magnetic interlocks have stabilized. I think we're safe out here.
JANEWAY: Begin working on a way to protect the warp core from these vacuoles.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.

[Mess hall]
KES: Sometimes I come in here and just stare out at the stars for hours. I never get tired of looking at them.
PTERA: We were always told we would see beautiful sights in the Next Emanation. Colors, lights, and that we would see them with new eyes and a new understanding. But now. What happened to the others? My brother, my father and everyone before them? People die every day on my world. Do they all end up as lifeless corpses?
KES: When people die on my world, we bury them beneath the soil, and we believe that their comra is released into the afterlife.
PTERA: Their comra?
KES: Our soul, our spirit, the essence of our beings. Maybe something similar happens to you.
PTERA: But you don't understand. We don't believe in any kind of spirit. When we die, we're supposed to reappear as physical beings with arms and legs. That's the whole point of sending our people through the spectral ruptures. We're supposed to travel on to the Next Emanation as ourselves and be reunited with our families. But none of that is true, is it? None of the people I love are here. I'm alone. I don't belong here. I can't live like this. Please, can't you send me home?
KES: I think there is only one person on this ship who could answer that question.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: We're doing everything we can to get you back home, Ptera. Once we locate our missing officer, we're hoping he might be able to tell us enough to
TORRES: Wait a minute, Captain. Maybe there is a way to send Ptera home and find Ensign Kim at the same time.
JANEWAY: Explain.
TORRES: What if we recreated the transporter accident? If it's true that Harry was pulled through the vacuole during transport, we might be able to reproduce those circumstances and send Ptera home.
CHAKOTAY: We could send Ptera through the subspace transponder and hope the signal will penetrate the dimensional barrier and allow us to lock on to Kim with the transporter beam.
TORRES: Right.
PTERA: So I can get home?
JANEWAY: Ptera, you should know that there's no guarantee this is going to work.
PTERA: I understand the risk, but I've already been dead once and I'm prepared to die again if necessary. So if there's a chance I can get home, I'm willing to take the risk.
JANEWAY: All right. Commander, prepare a subspace transponder and teach Ptera how to use it.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We've returned to the ring system, and we're preparing to send Ptera back to her dimension. Lieutenant Torres has found a way to temporarily protect the warp core against the vacuoles but she is uncertain how long her measures will be effective.

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: You understand the instructions for Mister Kim if you find him?
PTERA: Yes.

[Engineering]
TORRES: We've got one, Commander, forming ten meters below us, deck thirteen.
CHAKOTAY: Okay, let's see if your dampening field is going to protect the warp core.
TORRES: The field is fluctuating slightly, but holding.
CHAKOTAY: Engineering to Transporter Room three.

[Transporter room]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): There's a vacuole forming on deck thirteen. Magnetic interlocks are stable.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged.
SESKA: I see the vacuole. Locking on.
JANEWAY: Good luck, Ptera.
SESKA: I have a transporter lock. Energizing. Matching her pattern to the subspace distortions. Wait a minute. The vacuole is shutting down. I can't get her pattern through.
JANEWAY: Abort the procedure. Pull her back.
SESKA: I'm trying. I'm losing her pattern.
JANEWAY: Shunt emergency power into buffer tank four.
SESKA: That's it. I've got the pattern.
KES: She's dead.
JANEWAY: Is there any brain activity? Can we revive her? Janeway to Lieutenant Torres. How long until we have to leave?
TORRES (voiceover): I'd say we're safe for another two hours.
JANEWAY: That gives us two hours to find Mister Kim. We'll have to stay within high-range scanner range. Perform another subspace scan. This time extend the scan radius to ten AU. I'm on my way to Engineering. Janeway out.
TORRES (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Ensign, beam her onto one of the asteroids.
SESKA: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: That's where she was meant to be.
KES: I hope you find your afterlife, Ptera.

[Waiting room]
KIM: Why?
NERIA: We want to make a more detailed scan of your microcellular structures and a complete examination of your neurochemistry. This facility isn't equipped for such a detailed bioanalysis. The complex at Paffran has everything we need.
KIM: Look. If my ship is still searching for me, they're not going to stay there forever. I have to get back.
NERIA: That's not possible. We don't even understand how you got here.
KIM: Then maybe I can figure out a way to get back. Let me take a look at one of those cenotaphs.
NERIA: There's no time for that. Word about you has spread very quickly, Harry, not only in the scientific world, but in the community at large. There are many people who are very nervous about what you represent. Some even see you as a threat to their beliefs about the afterlife. We need to take you to a more secure location. It's for your own protection.
KIM: Wait!
NERIA: I'm sorry, Harry. It's out of my control.
KIM: What are you doing?
HATIL: Preparing for the transference ritual. This is a ceremonial shroud that's been in my family for five generations.
KIM: So they make you wrap yourself in your own death shroud.
HATIL: It's something we look forward to, actually. I remember when my father used this shroud, his father before him. The difference is, when my father put this on there was no doubt in his mind about where he was going.
KIM: Can't you just back out? Say you've changed your mind.
HATIL: I have thought of just walking out and disappearing. I have some friends in the Cararian Mountains. They would be willing to let me stay with them. But my family would worry about me. They'd wonder what was happening, if I was all right, if I were hurt. No, everyone's expecting a transference ritual, and I'm going to give them one.
KIM: What if you did disappear into the mountains, but your family thought you were dead? I mean, they're here for a transference ritual, right?
HATIL: Do you realize what you're suggesting?
KIM: It's perfect. Those cenotaphs send your people back to my dimension, which is where I want to go. Voyager's probably still near the asteroid searching for me. As soon as I appear, they'll pick up my signal and beam me aboard. And you, you can just disappear. Your family will think you're dead, and you can live out your life in the mountains.
HATIL: Harry, if you go into that cenotaph and go through with the transference ritual, you'll die.
KIM: Well, if Voyager can beam me aboard quickly enough, our doctor should be able to revive me. Medicine's pretty advanced in our culture. I've heard of cases where people have been dead for hours and still been brought back to life.
HATIL: But it's not certain?
KIM: No, it's not, but I think this is my only chance to get home.
HATIL: The shroud has to be wrapped in a particular way. I'll show you how, but we have to hurry. I'm scheduled for transference in less than an hour.

[Cenotaph room]
LORIA: A pleasant trip, Hatil. Say hello to Varel and Toyan. I'll see you there in a few years.
NERIA: We're joined here today to bid farewell to our dear friend Hatil Garan. We salute not only his life, but the manner in which he has chosen to end it. He makes a noble sacrifice today that his family may have a better tomorrow. We prepare to send him on to the Next Emanation

[Inside the cenotaph]
NERIA (voiceover): With the full knowledge and faith that the life he will find there is better than the one here, that he will no longer be hampered by his infirmity and that we will come to understand the cosmos

[Cenotaph room]
NERIA: In a way that he could never have imagined.
LORIA: Bye, Hatil. I love you.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Another vacuole. Deck fifteen.
TUVOK: The body of an alien female has been left behind.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Transporter Room Three. Lock onto the body on deck fifteen and transport it to one of the asteroids.
SESKA (voiceover): Aye, sir.
JANEWAY: Status on the warp core, Lieutenant.
TORRES: The dampening field's down to twenty one percent. The interlocks won't hold much longer. I recommend leaving, Captain.
JANEWAY: Very well. Mister Paris, bring us about. Prepare to resume our
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I'm picking up a vacuole forming on deck twelve. It deposited a human body.
JANEWAY: Human?
CHAKOTAY: But it's dead.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Seska. There's a body on deck twelve. Beam it directly to Sickbay.
SESKA (voiceover): Yes, Captain.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Two cc's cordrazine.
EMH: Relax, Mister Kim. Everything's fine. You're alive.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Mind if I join you?
KIM: No, not at all. Please.
JANEWAY: Thank you. So, how are you feeling?
KIM: Better. I'll be ready for duty tomorrow morning.
JANEWAY: You're off duty for the next two days.
KIM: Captain, I'm fine.
JANEWAY: It's not a reflection on your capabilities, Ensign. I just want to give you a chance to reflect on what's happened. This may not make much sense to you now, a young man at the beginning of his career, but one of the things you'll learn as you move up the ranks and get a little older is that you wish you had more time in your youth to really absorb all the things that happened to you. It goes by so fast. It's so easy to become jaded, to treat the extraordinary like just another day at the office, but sometimes there are experiences which transcend all that. You've just had one, Mister Kim, and I want you to live with it for a little while. Write about it, if you feel like it. Paint. Express yourself in some fashion. The Bridge will still be there in two days.
KIM: Thank you, Captain. I have been a little preoccupied with the experience. I mean, all those people think that they know what happens after death. They look forward to it. They're prepared for it. But the truth is, none of it's real. They don't have an afterlife. They just decay inside those asteroids.
JANEWAY: I wouldn't be so sure of that, if I were you. That neural energy their bodies release, it becomes part of the ambient electromagnetic field surrounding the planet. Our readings also indicate the energy's unusually dynamic. There's a great deal of variation and pattern complexity, quantum density.
KIM: Are you saying you think they do have an afterlife? That the energy field is where they exist at a higher level of consciousness, just like they believe?
JANEWAY: I'm not certain, but I am certain about this. What we don't know about death is far, far greater than what we do know. See you in two days, Ensign.
KIM: Thank you, Captain.

[Mess Hall]
TORRES: What?
SESKA: I've seen that look before. Ensign Murphy had better watch out.
TORRES: I happen to know that Murphy is seeing one of the Delaney sisters.
SESKA: Not since Harry and Tom Paris made their move.
TORRES: Harry and the Delaney sisters? He would have told me.
SESKA: I guess there are some things he keeps to himself.
TORRES: Harry, is it true about you and the Delaney sisters?
KIM: Is what true?
SESKA: Come on Harry, there aren't any secrets on a ship this small.
KIM: What have you been telling people?
PARIS: Well, we did take that trip to Venice with them.
KIM: The holodeck? You've got to be kidding. That lasted all of fifteen minutes.
PARIS: Yeah, you know, I've been meaning to ask you. What happened when you and Jenny Delaney disappeared in that gondola?
KIM: Nothing.
TORRES: Harry, we're your friends. You can tell us.
KIM: Nothing. We talked, and then I fell over the side.
SESKA: You fell out of the gondola?
PARIS: I think maybe Harry wasn't quite prepared for how voracious Jenny Delaney can be.
JANEWAY: I think it's finally beginning to happen. Both crews getting along.
TUVOK: That kind of bonding should improve performance and maximize efficiency.
JANEWAY: Yes, I'm sure it will.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain, we're receiving a distress call in one of the lower subspace bands.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: The subspace distress signal is coming from a vessel bearing one two five mark two one. Distance two hundred thousand kilometers.
KIM: Captain, sensors indicate five lifeforms aboard.
TUVOK: The vessel is altering it's course to intercept us.
JANEWAY: Go to yellow alert and slow to impulse. Hail them, Mister Kim.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. What is the nature of your emergency?
GATH (screen): We have no emergency.
JANEWAY: But you're sending out a distress call.
GATH (screen): Yes, we are.
JANEWAY: Why?
GATH (screen): Because you are in distress. I am Gathhorel Labin of the planet Sikaris. Please, let us welcome you to our system. Show you the hospitality of our people.
JANEWAY: that's very kind of you
GATH (screen): If I could come aboard your ship, I have gifts for you and a proposal I hope you will find irresistible.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, make the necessary arrangements to receive our guest.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Mister Labin, it really isn't necessary to go to all this trouble.
GATH: Please. Call me Gath. And I promise you I would like nothing better than to prepare a few of our newest delicacies for you. Ah, this will be perfect.
NEELIX: Captain, I'm serving lunch in less that two hours.
JANEWAY: We won't be long, Neelix. This is Mister, this is Gath. He's from Sikaris.
NEELIX: Ah! Ooo. Sikaris!
JANEWAY: Do you know the planet?
NEELIX: Only stories about their incredible hospitality.
JANEWAY: Tell me, how do you know about us?
GATH: Our people are very well traveled. Some of them have brought back stories about the ship of aliens from another part of the galaxy. People lost and alone, struggling to find their way home again.
JANEWAY: This is wonderful.
GATH: And I decided to come and meet you and offer you respite.
TUVOK: Respite?
GATH: A vacation, if you will. Get away from the confines of the ship, enjoy the beauty of our landscape, meet and talk with interesting, learned people.
KES: And the crew would certainly welcome a little shore leave, Captain.
NEELIX: And I hear the Sikarians have a huge variety of edible plants. If we could collect some seeds, we'd expand our selection significantly.
JANEWAY: Sounds like all this would increase performance and maximize efficiency, don't you think, Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: Indeed.
JANEWAY: Well Gath, looks like you're getting visitors. We'll set a course and follow you in.
GATH: I could not be happier.

[Plaza]
GATH: If you see anything you like, just let me know.
JANEWAY: What is this material? It's so delicate.
GATH: Exquisite, isn't it? It's the latest import from Vedestris. It's spun from the petals of a flower that blooms only in moonlight. Shall I have a dress made for you?
JANEWAY: It's lovely but, no, thank you.
GATH: Is it so hard for you to accept a gift?
JANEWAY: All right, but something small. Maybe a scarf?
GATH: What a curious people you are. Tell me would it help if I said that you could have an entire wardrobe made from these beautiful fabrics and that it would give all of us great pleasure to create it for you.
JANEWAY: Let's start with the scarf.
GATH: As you like. Which cloth do you prefer?
KIM: That's beautiful. Are you a musician?
EUDANA: This isn't a musical instrument. It's an atmospheric sensor. The frequency of the chimes indicates changes in weather conditions.
KIM: Then it must work on a principle of non-linear resonance, adjusting to the dynamic variables in the atmosphere.
EUDANA: That's exactly right. Are you a scientist?
KIM: In a sense. Can you show me how to operate it?
EUDANA: I'd be happy to. First, you have to initialize the sub-harmonic mode.
JANEWAY: Oh, I think this one.
GATH: When I see you wearing that scarf, my pleasure will be greater than yours.
JANEWAY: Well, I should get back. But with your permission, I'd like to start organizing teams to gather plants and seeds.
GATH: This is my associate, Jaret Otel. You may contact him to make any necessary arrangements.
JARET: We'll be glad to assist you in any way, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'll find my officers and we'll return to the ship.
GATH: Tonight we are having a celebration here. I hope you and your officers will be my guests.
JANEWAY: We'd be delighted.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48642.5. The crew is enjoying an evening on Sikaris. They are discovering, to their delight, that reports of this species' hospitality have not been exaggerated.

[Plaza]
KIM: So the whole thing exploded and there we were, seventy thousand light years from home and no way to get back. It felt pretty lonely.
EUDANA: That's a very noble story.
KIM: Noble?
EUDANA: Stories can be whimsical, or frightening, or melancholy, or many other things. But noble stories are the ones that can most affect our lives. May I have your permission to tell others this story?
KIM: Sure. It's no secret.
EUDANA: But stories are an essential part of every person's being. I would never share one without permission.
KIM: Go right ahead. I've got a few others too.
EUDANA: You do? Come with me. I know a private place where you can tell me all your stories.
EUDANA: Stand close to me. Alastria.

[Alastria]
KIM: Where are we?
EUDANA: The woods of Alastria, my favorite place. I usually come here when I want to spend time alone but, tonight it seemed right to bring you. Now, tell me your stories. All of them.
KIM: Why is it so much warmer here?
KIM: What is that?
EUDANA: The dawn zephyr.
KIM: Dawn? We just got here. That's, that is an amazing feeling. What's happening?
EUDANA: The erosene winds, passion winds, come just before the dawn. The erosene creates euphoria.
KIM: I'll say. Why am I seeing two suns?
EUDANA: Because this is a binary system.
KIM: But your planet only has one sun.
EUDANA: But Alastria has two.
KIM: Eudana, where are we?
EUDANA: I told you. Alastria. A system far from Sikaris.
KIM: How far?
EUDANA: Do you have to ask all these questions?
KIM: Please, it's important.
EUDANA: Alastria is about two and a half billion times the distance between Sikaris and it's sun.
KIM: That's almost forty thousand light years.
EUDANA: Now, feel the breeze.
KIM: Er, we have to go back.
EUDANA: It's still night on Sikaris. We have plenty of time.
KIM: No, er, we're going back, and I need you to tell me everything you know about that platform that got us here.

[Plaza]
GATH: And tomorrow night you must let me take you to the theater.
JANEWAY: Oh my, I have lost all track of time. My crew has gone. I'm the last one here.
GATH: I hope that's because you're enjoying yourself.
JANEWAY: I am.
KIM: Captain! Excuse me for interrupting but I've just found out about something incredible.
JANEWAY: Calm down, Ensign. What is it?
KIM: That platform. It's a transportation device. Extremely sophisticated. It operates on the principle of folding space.
JANEWAY: That's something that's been theorized, but no one's ever been able to develop the technology.
KIM: Well, these people have. I've just been to Alastria and back. Alastria is forty thousand light years away.
GATH: We call it a spatial trajector. We are able to travel to all the planets in this quadrant.
JANEWAY: How far can it take you?
GATH: Alastria is at the uttermost limits of it's range.
KIM: Apparently it's never been used to move anything as large as Voyager, but as I understand the principle of space folding, the size of the object isn't relevant.
JANEWAY: What do you think? Would it be possible to modify your technology so we could use it?
EUDORA: I tried to tell him.
JANEWAY: What is it?
GATH: We cannot share our technology. Once it's out of our control, it might fall into the hands of those who would abuse it, and our canon of laws strictly forbids that.
KIM: But we wouldn't abuse it. Don't you see what it would mean to us?
GATH: Please, don't make it more difficult for me. I don't enjoy denying you this, but our canon of laws has determined our entire system of values. To break one of it's precepts would undermine everything we believe in. I'm sorry, but there can be no exceptions to the law.

[Briefing room]
KIM: I can't believe they're not going to help us. Some kind of hospitality.
TORRES: Forty thousand light years. Even if that's as far as we could go, it would still knock about four decades off our trip.
CHAKOTAY: And the possibility exists that we could reconfigure the matrix at that point to take us another thirty thousand light years, right into Federation space.
TUVOK: Since they've already said no, this kind of thinking is only going to make you feel worse.
JANEWAY: It's the first time we've been on the other side of the fence.
PARIS: What fence?
JANEWAY: The one that's made of binding principles. We have our own set of rules, which includes the Prime Directive. How many times have we been in the position of refusing to interfere when some kind of disaster threatened an alien culture. It's all very well to say we do it on the basis of an enlightened principle, but how does that feel to the aliens? I'm sure many of them think the Prime Directive is a lousy idea.
PARIS: Even we think so sometimes.
CHAKOTAY: I know of many times when Starfleet personnel have decided on strong ethical grounds to ignore it.
KIM: Still, there's a reason why it's Starfleet's General order number one. On the whole, it does a lot more good than harm.
TUVOK: Captain, it occurs to me that we know little about the Sikarians. We cannot assume that their first refusal is unalterable. It may be that no is simply a prelude to negotiation.
TORRES: He's right, maybe they can be reasoned with.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe they want something. Maybe they'll bargain.
PARIS: But what do we have to offer? They seem to have everything they need.
KIM: Stories. Stories are an important part of their culture. They seem to provide more than entertainment. They're kind of a measuring rod of values and beliefs. We have a huge library in our databanks. We could offer them the whole thing. All the great literature of dozens of cultures.
CHAKOTAY: What do you think, Captain? Would they be interested?
JANEWAY: They just might be. From what we've seen of them, they're a remarkably pleasure oriented people. They might appreciate a gift of literature. I'll arrange to meet with Gath. As Magistrate he has the authority to make this decision.
TORRES: In the meantime, I'm going to take a look at that trajector platform. Maybe I can figure out how it works.
JANEWAY: You'll do nothing of the sort, Lieutenant. If I find this law is negotiable, I'll make every attempt to get the technology, but until then we won't do anything that might violate their canon of laws as we understand it. That's all.
KIM: What's wrong?
TORRES: I just hope she gets it.
KIM: She will.

[Janeway's quarters]
GATH: Exquisite. What did you say you call it?
JANEWAY: Pecan pie.
GATH: I must have the recipe.
JANEWAY: I'd be happy to share it with you. Gath, I want you to know I understand your reluctance to share your technology with us. We have similar restrictions. But I wondered, would it make any difference if I gave you my word that we would destroy the trajector matrix as soon as we'd used it?
GATH: I know this will upset you, but I can't.
JANEWAY: I understand. And frankly, I suspected as much. But I have a proposal which might allow you to obey your laws and still give us what we want. Surely you could use the trajectory to send us? Forty thousand light years would mean a great deal to us. And in return, we're prepared to offer you something you might enjoy.
GATH: Oh?
JANEWAY: A full library of the Federation's finest literature.
GATH: Literature?
JANEWAY: Centuries of stories. New stories from diverse cultures. Stories that fire the imagination.
GATH: You certainly know how to tempt me, Captain. It's certainly possible. I'll have to meet with the other Magistrates to discuss it. No one has ever made a request like that. In the meantime, I'd like to enjoy every bite of this, how did you call it?
JANEWAY: Pecan pie.

[Engineering]
TORRES: I've finished the maintenance check on the shock attenuation cylinders. They'll have to be replaced in another two thousand hours but we'll face that problem when we come to it. Seska?
SESKA: Sorry. I wasn't concentrating. What did you say?
TORRES: You looked a million light years away.
SESKA: No, only about seventy thousand. My brother's birthday is in four days. Last year I promised I'd meet him on Nivoch, celebrate with him. He'll think I broke my promise, that I'm dead. What are you doing?
TORRES: I've been thinking. The folding of space should leave a sub-space residue. If we can detect one, we might be a step closer to knowing how the trajector works.
SESKA: Look at that neutrino dispersion pattern. Could that be a result of space folding?
TORRES: Maybe. If the device creates a neutrino bubble around whatever's being trajectored.
CAREY: If that's the case, we'd need a bubble big enough for the ship. Don't worry Lieutenant. I'm with you on this one. After all, it doesn't hurt to theorize.
SESKA: Right. And hypothetically, if we could modify the deflector array to emit phased neutrinos, we could create a big enough bubble.
TORRES: Let's give it a try. In theory, of course.

[Alleyway]
KIM: I don't understand. Why is it so important I come here now?
EUDANA: You'll see in a minute. We're here.
JARET: Good evening, Ensign. Thank you for coming.
KIM: What's this about?
JARET: I asked Eudana to invite you here because I was sure you would respond to her, and because it would look perfectly natural. I am prepared to accept your collection of literature in exchange for our trajector technology.
KIM: Is that something you're authorized to do?
JARET: Officially? No. But many people believe that rules should be flexible enough to meet the needs of the moment. There is a great desire here for new stories and I want to be the one to supply them.
KIM: So you'd stand to benefit from this arrangement, right?
JARET: We will both benefit. I would gain prestige and you would gain forty thousand light years in your journey home, possibly more. This is it, Ensign. The matrix of the trajector.
KIM: Captain Janeway has asked the Magistrate to send us forty thousand light years.
JARET: He won't. He never had any intention of helping you leave here.
EUDANA: Jaret is right. I know how much it means to you to get home. Please, listen to him.
JARET: You must believe me when I tell you this is the only way you will make that journey. Consider my offer. I'm sure you will decide it is a fair one.

[Mess hall]
KIM: I don't know what to do. I know we'd all like to get that much closer to home, but I don't think Captain Janeway is going to go for getting the technology like that.
TORRES: Maybe she will. After all, it's a Sikarian who's making the offer.
PARIS: But it's not above board. The Captain is only going to deal with an official representative.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Bridge to Ensign Kim. The Captain can see you now.
PARIS: Just tell her everything you know. Let her take it from there.
KIM: Right.
PARIS: I'll walk you part way. I'm headed for bed.
TORRES: Somehow, I have a bad feeling about this. It's just not going to work out.
SESKA: Don't you think that's up to us?
TORRES: What does that mean?
SESKA: It means that we can sit here and let someone make the decision for us, or we can take matters into our own hands. We've been offered the grand prize. All we have to do is step up and claim it.
TORRES: Take the technology? Without permission?
SESKA: Since when do you talk like that? Do you think that permission is more important than getting us half way home? The Captain is so infatuated with the Sikarian Magistrate she can't think straight. We can't trust that she's going to make the best decision for all of us. If we do this, we'll need to use engineering to configure the matrix. It would be a lot easier if we knew we could count on you.
TORRES: Seska, I am a senior officer now. I have responsibilities.
SESKA: And the main responsibility for everyone on this ship is to try to find a way home. Captain Janeway made that clear from the beginning. That's our primary mission. Just think about it, that's all.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Did Jaret explain what he meant when he said Gath had no intention of helping us leave?
KIM: No, he just made it clear that our only choice was to get the trajector technology from him.
TUVOK: He may simply want us to believe that so we would deal with him.
JANEWAY: Possibly. But somehow I suspect he's right. Thank you for coming to me with this, Ensign. It may muddy the situation somewhat, but it helps me force the issue. Dismissed.
KIM: Goodnight, Captain. Lieutenant.
JANEWAY: Oh, Tuvok, what do I do now?
TUVOK: You would seem to have two options. Continue to negotiate with a man who may have a hidden agenda, or deal with a man who is willing to defy his own laws.
JANEWAY: Not very pretty choices.
TUVOK: At least if you deal with Jaret, it is his law that is being compromised, not ours.
JANEWAY: But does that matter? I told the crew when we started this journey that we'd be a Starfleet crew, behaving as Starfleet would expect us to. That means there's a certain standard I have to uphold. Principles, principles. That's what it comes down to. Do I compromise my almighty principles? But how do I not compromise them if it involves a chance to get the crew more than half way home. How do I tell them my principles are so important that I would deny them that opportunity.
TUVOK: I believe the first thing you must do is determine whether Gath is willing to use the trajector to help us. If that possibility exists at all, you must explore it.
JANEWAY: You're right. Thank you, Tuvok.

[Plaza]
JANEWAY: Have you spoken with the other Magistrates about using the trajector?
GATH: Actually, I haven't. Some of them are traveling now but I assure you I will do it.
GATH: I've already seen all those.
JANEWAY: It's becoming a matter of some urgency.
GATH: Oh? Why?
JANEWAY: We've imposed on you for long enough.
GATH: Not true. We welcome you for as long as you can stay. And I hope that's a very long time indeed.
JANEWAY: My crew is eager to continue our journey. Once they realized the trajector might bring us forty thousand light years closer to home.
GATH: Why are you so consumed with this desire to get home? I find it difficult to understand.
JANEWAY: Home is home. It's where we belong.
GATH: Couldn't you create a new home here, with us? Can you imagine a more delightful place to live, where you could pass your time extracting pleasure from every moment. I promise you, you and I have many such moments to explore.
JANEWAY: Yes, but for how long? I've seen how quickly you get tired of your pleasures. All that interests you is what's new and unexplored. After a day or two it becomes commonplace.
GATH: Yes?
JANEWAY: We prefer permanence. The reward of relationships that endure and grow deeper with the passing of time.
GATH: You would loose those notions if you stayed with us.
JANEWAY: You may be right. And that's why we have to leave.
GATH: We have offered you nothing but hospitality. Is this how you repay us? With an attack on our beliefs?
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. I was just trying to illustrate the differences between us.
GATH: I don't enjoy being judged like this. It's very upsetting. Not at all pleasurable.
JANEWAY: That's all you really care about, isn't it? Your pleasure. All your hospitality, your graciousness, it was never about giving us pleasure. It's all been to gratify yourselves. We're nothing more than the latest novelty.
GATH: You're hostile and vicious. You would infect the joyousness of our lives. You must leave immediately.
JANEWAY: You never had any intention of helping us, did you?
GATH: Of course I did. I did everything in my power to persuade you to stay here.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Voyager. One to beam up.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Cancel all shore leave and recall the away teams. We've been asked to leave.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: I assume that means Gath will not be assisting us.
JANEWAY: I don't think he ever had any intention of helping us. He just strung us along.
TUVOK: Are you considering Jaret's offer?
JANEWAY: Oh, I wish I could, but I can't.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, it'll take hours to get everyone up. We've got crewmembers scattered throughout both hemispheres.
JANEWAY: Get them back as quickly as you can, Commander. I think we've overextended our stay here. I'll be in my Ready room.

[Mess hall]
SESKA: I've downloaded the Federation Library. It's all on these chips. We know the man to contact, he wants the Library and he doesn't care who gives it to him.
TORRES: We're under orders.
SESKA: B'Elanna, right now our people are still fighting Cardassians, dying for our cause. Settlers in the demilitarized zone are still under attack. We made a promise, B'Elanna, that we'd all stick together until the Zone was safe, and I intend to keep that promise.
CAREY: I have a wife, and two little boys. I don't want them to grow up without a father. I'd do anything to prevent that.
SESKA: We're not the only ones. Everyone wants to get back. They're just waiting for someone to act.
CAREY: I've been working on the theory that the trajector operates within a neutrino envelope. If that's true, I think we can use it as many times as we need, until we're all the way home.
SESKA: Just think, by tomorrow we could be there.
TORRES: All right, let's do it.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: With shore leave canceled, can we get to the surface undetected?
SESKA: We'll have to override the security lock-out but that shouldn't be a problem.
CAREY: It's not accepting my security code.
SESKA: Re-initialize the lock out buffers.
CAREY: I did. It's not working. Someone's altered the security sub-routine.
TORRES: Why would anyone do that?
SESKA: Never mind. Beam me down.
TORRES: Are you crazy? Security will find you out before you get there.
TUVOK: I altered the security sub-routines. Any attempt to over-ride the lock out would have alerted me to your presence here. Is this Voyager's library which you intended to trade for the trajector technology?
SESKA: Yes.
TUVOK: When I attempted to download it, I noticed it had already been accessed.
TORRES: You were going to download it?
TUVOK: I will make the exchange with Jaret Otel. Return to your stations. Do what you can to prepare the ship for the matrix. Energize.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Mister Tuvok is on the surface now, Captain. He says the remaining away teams should be on board in fifteen minutes.
JANEWAY: Are all the food supplies secured?
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain. As soon as the last of the crew gets back, we'll be ready to leave.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres here.
JANEWAY: We'll be leaving orbit within minutes.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Ready all propulsion systems.
TORRES: We're ready now, Captain.
SESKA: Where's Tuvok?
TORRES: He'll be here. We certainly won't leave without him.
SESKA: Well, what's keeping him?
TORRES: Calm down. You're going to draw attention to yourself.
TUVOK: Do not attempt to activate the device until I've spoken to Captain Janeway.
TORRES: What are you doing? He said not to activate it!
SESKA: I'm not. I'm just going to try the interface simulation. We don't know even if it will interface. We can give ourselves a head start by testing it now.
TORRES: All right. But just a simulation.
SESKA: It's working.
CAREY: I was right. It operates within a neutrino envelope.
SESKA: The trajector field is bigger than anything we've created by ten orders of magnitude.
CAREY: To get a field that size, you'd need an amplifier as big as a planet!
SESKA: I don't understand. How do they get that kind of amplification?
TORRES: I'll show you. Sikaris has a mantle of tetrahedral quartz twenty kilometers thick. The crystalline structure of the mantle seems to focus and amplify the trajector field.
CAREY: If that's how the power transfer occurs, then once we leave orbit we loose the ability to traject.
TORRES: We don't have time to test it. We'll have to try it now, or forget it.
SESKA: Do it!
TORRES: If there are any compatibility problems
SESKA: Then we can abort. This is our only chance.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Bridge to Engineering.
TORRES: Torres here.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We're ready to leave orbit. Thrusters online.
TORRES (voiceover): Aye Captain.

[Engineering]
SESKA: We have to do something.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, take us out of orbit. Four thousand kph.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. There's no response. Thrusters are offline.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Engineering.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): What's going on, Lieutenant?
TORRES: We've got a phase variance in plasma conduit three. I'll have to check it out before we can engage thrusters.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: When did this problem show up?
TORRES (voiceover): Just now, Captain. It's only a slight variance, I'll have it fixed in a minute.
JANEWAY: Keep me advised.

[Engineering]
TORRES: All right, the matrix is activating.
SESKA: The trajector field is forming.
CAREY: And it's amplifying. Look how fast it's expanding!
TORRES: That's the effect of the quartz mantle.
SESKA: We're nearly at full field strength. This is going to work.
CAREY: What is it?
TORRES: The plasma manifold is becoming unstable.
SESKA: I can compensate for that!
CAREY: The manifold is being bombarded by anti-neutrinos from the trajector field.
SESKA: Anti-neutrinos?
TORRES: They must be the catalyst for the space-folding process.
SESKA: It's not working. I can't compensate for the instability.
CAREY: There's no way to compensate for a field that size!

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, I'm showing an unstable plasma manifold. We're heading for a breach.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Torres. What's happening?

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): We're reading a warp core breach up here.
TORRES: We're on it, Captain. No time to talk. Shut down the matrix!
SESKA: I can't! It's not responding!
CAREY: It's fused!
SESKA: Plasma temperature at forty three million Kelvins.
TORRES: Carey, get everybody out!
CAREY: All right, people, let's go. Move it out! Move out, let's go, right now. Let's go. Come on, move it out. Fast! Right now. Keep moving!
TORRES: I can't unlock it! The command matrix is sealed.
SESKA: Plasma temperature at fifty million Kelvin.
SESKA: Anti-neutrino bombardment has stopped. Plasma temperature dropping.
TORRES: We didn't anticipate anti-neutrinos. The trajector could never be compatible with Federation technology.
SESKA: I'll start erasing the sensor logs. We can blame it on the phase discrepancy.
TORRES: No! We're not going to cover this up.
SESKA: Are you crazy? We don't have to take the blame for this!
TORRES: But we're going to. We disobeyed orders, gambling that it would pay off. It didn't. And now we just can't pretend that nothing happened.
SESKA: I don't understand. There's no need for this.
TORRES: I'm sorry if you don't get it, Seska, but it has something to do with, er, with being able to live with yourself.
SESKA: That doesn't sound like you. You've changed.
TORRES: If that's true, I take it as a compliment.

[Ready room]
TORRES: I take full responsibility for what happened. There were others involved, but I was the senior officer, and the culpability is mine.
TUVOK: Lieutenant Torres is not precisely correct, Captain. She was not the senior officer involved, I was.
JANEWAY: You?
TUVOK: It was I who made the exchange. The Federation Library for the trajector matrix.
JANEWAY: I will deal with you in a moment. I don't have the luxury of throwing you in the brig for the rest of this voyage. I need you. I need every person on this ship. But I want you to know how very deeply you have disappointed me. If there are any further transgressions, even a minor one, you will no longer be an officer on this crew. Is that clear?
TORRES: Yes, Ma'am.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.
JANEWAY: I don't even know where to start. I want you to explain to me how you, of all people, could be involved in this.
TUVOK: It is quite simple, Captain. You have made it clear on many occasions that your highest goal for the crew is to get them home. But in this instance, your standards would not allow you to violate Sikarian law. Someone had to spare you the ethical dilemma. I was the logical choice, and so I chose to act.
JANEWAY: You did it for me because you knew I couldn't.
TUVOK: I accept the consequences of my actions. I expect to loose my commission and to be court-martialled when we return to Federation space.
JANEWAY: You are one of my most valued officers and you are my friend. It is vital that you understand me here. I need you, but I also need to know that I can count on you. You are my counsel, the one I turn to when I need my moral compass checked. We have forged this relationship for years and I depend on it. I realize you made a sacrifice for me, but it's not one I would have allowed you to make. You can use logic to justify almost anything. That's it's power, and it's flaw. From now on, bring your logic to me. Don't act on it behind my back.
TUVOK: You have my word. My logic was not in error, but I was.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.

[Planet surface]
CAREY: Commander! Look at this. I think they're some kind of apple. There are trees filled with them as far as the eye can see, just over that ridge.
NEELIX: Kaylos. Ah. Aren't they gorgeous? One bite'll kill you. Puff you up like a vakol fish. First your windpipe swells, and just when you think you're going to die of suffocation, ow! Oh, you get a sharp pain in your knees, which begins to work its way right up to
CHAKOTAY: I think we get the picture.
NEELIX: Sorry, Mister Carey. Just remember the old trader's axiom. Never judge a fruit by its skin. Er, on the other hand, take a bite.
CHAKOTAY: What is it?
NEELIX: A leola root.
CHAKOTAY: You expect us to eat this?
NEELIX: This is the reason I brought you here, Commander. There's no better source of vitamins and minerals in the quadrant than in this, this ugly little root.
CHAKOTAY: I'd find the second best source acceptable if it tasted better.
NEELIX: You humans! You're not used to roughing it, are you? Well, you take it from one who knows. The day may come when you'll relish every last crunch of leola.
NEELIX: Stewed for a few hours in a light herbal broth, you wouldn't even notice the mildew.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Captain, I don't think we're alone. Mister Tuvok, run a lateral EM scan for me. Coordinates eight one mark four zero.
TUVOK: Running scan.
JANEWAY: What do you see, Mister Paris?
PARIS: It's like a reflection, something in low orbit when it moves into a certain angle from the sun.
TUVOK: He's correct. I am picking up an ionization trail. There is another ship in orbit.
JANEWAY: Using some kind of cloaking device.
TUVOK: It's not a cloaking device as we know it, Captain. I cannot say for certain what it is, but the ship does employ some kind of masking circuitry that has affected our sensors.
JANEWAY: Voyager to Away team.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Go ahead, Captain.
JANEWAY: Any unexpected

[Planet Surface]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Life signs down there, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Nothing but bloodworms. Neelix wants to bring some back for a tartar

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): He wants to make. I'm trying to talk him out of it.
JANEWAY: We're picking up an unidentified ship in low orbit. Collect your teams and prepare to transport back while we investigate.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Planet Surface]
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay out. All units, report to transport site A immediately.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, I believe a polaron burst may give us visual contact.
JANEWAY: Do it.
JANEWAY: Kazon.
TUVOK: The hull design does conform to known specifications of the Kazon-Nistrim sect.
JANEWAY: Voyager to Away teams. Return to the ship immediately.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Acknowledged

[Planet Surface]
CHAKOTAY: Captain. Transporter Room, get ready to begin on my command.
KIM: Where's Ensign Seska?
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Seska. Transporter room, can you locate Ensign Seska's comm. badge signal?
CREWMAN (voiceover): Negative, Commander. I'm not reading any sign of her.
KIM: She was picking berries with our group over by the hillside. There were caves nearby.
CHAKOTAY: If she went inside one, it might be blocking her comm. badge signal. The rest of you get back to the ship. I'm going to look for her.

[Cave]
SESKA: Oh, thank the Prophets.
CHAKOTAY: What are you doing here?
SESKA: Mushrooms. I saw them growing by the mouth of the cave. I wanted to teach Neelix how to make your favorite soup.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate the thought, but we've got to get out of here.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48658.2. We successfully left orbit without further interference from the Kazon. Commander Chakotay was injured, but is recovering from his wounds.

[Chakotay's quarters]
CHAKOTAY: Come in.
SESKA: I didn't think I'd make it. Feeling better?
CHAKOTAY: Yeah. What have you got there?
SESKA: Real food.
CHAKOTAY: You got Neelix to make some mushroom soup!
SESKA: Are you kidding? The man wanted to stretch the mushrooms with just a little
BOTH: Leola root.
SESKA: We got into this tug-of-war with the bag of mushrooms in the middle. It was the most ludicrous thing you've ever seen. Tuvok and Kes broke us up, and then Neelix threw me out of his kitchen.
CHAKOTAY: So how did you?
SESKA: Strictly a Maquis operation.
CHAKOTAY: Mm hmm.
SESKA: First we arranged for a little morale crisis. A couple of our people suddenly came down with severe homesickness. Neelix, our devoted morale officer, responded to the call and came in to cheer them up. And while they are all singing Rakan folk songs, Jackson and I broke into the kitchen.
CHAKOTAY: You looted the food reserves?
SESKA: Well, if he's not going to give us a decent meal.
CHAKOTAY: I can't believe you did this.
SESKA: Well, it's not like we're hiding anything. I did bring soup straight to the First Officer, didn't I?
CHAKOTAY: Thanks for including me in a criminal conspiracy. Does he know about this yet?
SESKA: Well, the moral crisis ended a few minutes ago, so I'd say
NEELIX (voiceover): Neelix to Chakotay!
SESKA: That he probably does.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead, Neelix.
NEELIX (voiceover): I'd like to report a crime. Someone has broken into my kitchen and stolen food, taken food out of the mouths of their crew mates.
CHAKOTAY: I know.
NEELIX (voiceover): It was that Seska, wasn't it?
CHAKOTAY: I promise you, everyone involved will be disciplined.
NEELIX (voiceover): If you'd like my recommendations for punishment, I
CHAKOTAY: Thank you. I'll handle that. Chakotay out. Replicator privileges revoked for two days. Everyone, including me.
SESKA: They're not going to do it.
CHAKOTAY: Then I'll personally put them in the brig.
SESKA: You'd put me in the brig? After all we've been through?
SESKA: The soup was worth losing the replicator privileges for two days. Admit it.
CHAKOTAY: That's not the point.
SESKA: I get the point. Can we make up now? Who else knows how to make your favorite soup like I do?
CHAKOTAY: No one, but we agreed a long time ago this wouldn't work.
SESKA: Look around, Chakotay. There aren't that many potential mates out here. Of course, if you're not interested, I have had my eye on young Ensign Kim.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to all senior officers. Please report to the Bridge.

[Bridge]
KAZON (screen): We require help. Immediately. Anyone who can hear this message, please help.
JANEWAY: Long-range scanners picked up the distress signal three minutes ago.
TUVOK: The ship's dimensions are identical to the vessel we encountered at the planet. It is a Kazon-Nistrim ship, Captain.
NEELIX: Captain, this may be a trap. The Kazon-Nistrim is one of the most violent sects in the entire Kazon collective.
KAZON (screen): We need immediate assistance. We have lost all bridge operations. Barely able to function. Please assist.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim. Can you determine that this ship has sustained genuine damage?
KIM: There are fluctuating nucleonic patterns. It might indicate a reactor breakdown on board.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, run an extended scanner sequence to identify any other Kazon ships that might be in the area.
PARIS: Nothing showing up, Captain.
JANEWAY: Maintain scans and set a heading to intercept.
PARIS: New heading entered.
JANEWAY: I take your warning seriously, Neelix, and we'll act with caution, but if we can help we should. Besides, this may be an opportunity to make a friend and out here, we can use all the friends we can get.

[Kazon Ship]
TORRES: What could do something like this?
CHAKOTAY: I'm showing high levels of nucleonic radiation. It seems to be isolated in that area.
TUVOK: It is likely that the ship's automatic containment systems were activated when the radiation entered the bridge. We should be safe as long as we stay on this side of the force field.
SESKA: Someone's alive over here.
CHAKOTAY: Away team to Voyager. We've got a single male Kazon alive on the bridge. Transport him directly to Sickbay.
KIM (voiceover): Energizing.
TUVOK: It appears the explosion emanated from this console.
TORRES: Does something look a little odd about it to you?
TUVOK: The structural pattern does not conform to the rest of the bridge.
TORRES: No, there's something else strange about it. The residue has a point four one percent trace of a neosorium composite, and I don't know anyone who uses neosorium technology except for the Federation. So how did it get into the hands of the Kazon?

[Sickbay]
EMH: Incredible. Somehow virtually every cell in his body has been altered.
JANEWAY: Altered?
EMH: His cells have mutated. Or they've been fused with inorganic matter. I can't make heads or tails of it. Look at this. His blood cells have bonded with metallic nuclei.
CHAKOTAY: The crew members closest to the explosion were virtually melded with huge pieces of metal fragments. He was luckier than the others.
EMH: That remains to be seen. I'm going to have to do a complete pyrocyte replacement if we're going to keep him alive. We'd better hope there are compatible donors on board.
KES: I'll run a cytological screening of the crew.
EMH: We'll let you know the results as soon as we can.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: Captain, there was an apparent Federation signature to the explosion.
JANEWAY: What?
CHAKOTAY: It looked like they were trying to install some new technology that detonated.
JANEWAY: You're saying they have some kind of Federation weapon on board?
CHAKOTAY: A console on the bridge was the source of the explosion. We're not sure what its function was, and it's going to be hard to get to.
JANEWAY: We can't transport it out?
CHAKOTAY: Not with those levels of nucleonic radiation. The transporter beam would disperse the moment it hit the irradiated cabin.
JANEWAY: How could they possibly have Federation technology?
TUVOK: There are only three alternatives I can discern at this time. One, it is not Federation technology at all but something similar.

[Turbolift]
JANEWAY: Bridge.
TUVOK: Two, another Federation starship may have been brought to the Delta Quadrant prior to our arrival, and they interacted with the Kazon-Nistrim.
CHAKOTAY: Were there any other reports of missing starships?
JANEWAY: Not to my knowledge.
TUVOK: Three, someone from this ship has covertly given technology to the Kazon.
JANEWAY: Computer, hold turbolift. I don't like number three at all, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Nevertheless, it is the most probable explanation. It may not be a coincidence that the Kazon ship we encountered at the planet was able to deceive our sensors. Perhaps someone transmitted instructions to them before we arrived.
JANEWAY: I want you to personally go through the transmission logs, Tuvok. Compare them to the actual telemetry. See if there's any evidence of prior contact with the Kazon. Who would have had a chance to meet with them while you were on the surface?
CHAKOTAY: A dozen people. We were scattered all over the area.
TUVOK: You did discover Ensign Seska in proximity to them.
CHAKOTAY: Seska almost killed me because she thought I was Kazon. She wouldn't do something like this.
TUVOK: Nevertheless, I urge you to regard her with caution for the time being.
JANEWAY: Why would anyone on this ship betray us? We're all in this together. We need to retrieve that console and get some answers before the rumors get out of hand. Computer, resume.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Releasing the force field isn't an option. That would just allow the radiation into the whole cabin.
SESKA: We could generate a localized subspace bubble to get past the force field.
TORRES: One minor subspace disruption and you're dead. It's too risky.
SESKA: I'd be willing to risk it.
CAREY: We could use an expander to manipulate the containment field.
TORRES: Manipulate it how?
CAREY: Move it out of the way. Rotate the field and the radiation trapped inside it away from the console. Once it's clear, we have access.
JANEWAY: How long will it take to set this up?
TORRES: We, er, we should be able to make an attempt by tomorrow.
JANEWAY: I want it ready by the end of the day.
TORRES: No, Captain. When I say tomorrow, I mean tomorrow. I don't exaggerate. Tomorrow is the best I can do.
JANEWAY: Understood, Lieutenant.
TORRES: All right. We'll begin on the Kazon bridge. Carey, Nicoletti, Seska.
CHAKOTAY: No. I want Ensign Seska to coordinate the operation from our bridge.
TORRES: Okay. Henard, you're with us. Dismissed.

[Corridor]
SESKA: What was that all about?
CHAKOTAY: What?
SESKA: Oh, you know what I'm talking about. There's nothing important to do on the Bridge.
CHAKOTAY: I disagree. We need someone up there who
SESKA: What the hell is going on?
CHAKOTAY: There's some concern about you.
SESKA: What kind of concern?
CHAKOTAY: Concern because I found you near the Kazon on the planet.
SESKA: Oh, I see. So now I'm a traitor. I sell technology to the enemy.
CHAKOTAY: I don't believe that.
SESKA: No, you just take me off my assignment.
CHAKOTAY: I'm trying to take you out of harm's way to protect you.
SESKA: This is your idea of protection? You might as well point a finger at me in front of the entire crew!
CHAKOTAY: You don't assign someone you don't trust to the Bridge. Look, I'm sorry, but if something goes wrong over there, I don't want you anywhere near it.
SESKA: Thanks for your concern.

[Sickbay]
SESKA: How is he?
KES: Not very good. We need to completely replace his blood.
SESKA: Will he regain consciousness?
EMH: I'm not sure. Even if he does, there's no way to predict what kind of brain damage there might be.
SESKA: He's the only one who really knows what happened on that ship, Doctor. The only one who can tell them I had nothing to do with it.
EMH: You? I don't understand.
SESKA: Would you call me right away if he wakes up?
EMH: All right.
KES: Ensign, did you ever come in to leave a blood sample on file?
SESKA: No. I never got around to it. Why?
KES: I've been running a crew compatibility analysis and your file never came up.
SESKA: My blood won't help you. I had a childhood disease that infected it. I was warned never to donate blood for transfusion.
EMH: All the more reason we should have your blood on file.
SESKA: I will. Right now I have something more important to take care of.

[Ready room]
TUVOK: Someone did make an unauthorized transmission.
CHAKOTAY: And whoever it was, was an expert at covering their tracks.
TUVOK: The signal was masked by a test of the dorsal emitters that we conducted a week ago.
JANEWAY: Who was working on that test?
CHAKOTAY: Only the whole engineering crew.
TUVOK: We're trying to trace the station where the signal originated. Again, the perpetrator was skilled enough to make the tracking process extremely difficult for us.
CHAKOTAY: It's like working backwards through a maze of circuits. We keep bumping into dead ends.
PARIS (voiceover): Paris to Captain Janeway. Please report to the Bridge.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Captain, another Kazon ship is approaching, trying to hail the disabled ship. They're not within visual range yet.
TUVOK: Perhaps someone else picked up the distress call.
JANEWAY: What's their ETA?
PARIS: At their current speed, four hours twenty minutes. Should I tell them we're here?
JANEWAY: If we know about them, it's a good bet they know about us. We don't have anything good to tell them. I think we'll wait.
KIM: Captain, I'm showing an unauthorized autosequence in Transporter Room two. Someone's left Voyager.
JANEWAY: Computer, identify who just beamed off the ship from Transporter Room two.
COMPUTER: Ensign Seska.

[Kazon ship]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Seska.
SESKA: I really don't have time to talk to you right now, Chakotay.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: What the hell do you think you're doing?
SESKA (voiceover): Retrieving the console, my way.
CHAKOTAY: I want you back on this ship, and I mean now.

[Kazon ship]
SESKA: The Captain said she wanted the console today. Carey's plan couldn't do it in time

[Bridge]
SESKA (voiceover): But mine can.
TUVOK: Captain, it is conceivable that she's gone to the Kazon ship to destroy evidence that might implicate her.
CHAKOTAY: She's gone back to the Kazon ship to prove herself to us. Can't you see that?
KIM: I've got a lock on her, Captain. Do you want me to transport her back?
JANEWAY: If we try to beam her out while she's manipulating subspace, we might kill her.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Seska. Seska, respond! Get her out of there! Send her to Sickbay.
KIM: Energizing.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Prep three cc's kelotane. I'll need a dermal regenerator. Run a full blood scan.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Have a seat, Mister Carey.
CHAKOTAY: How have things been going for you in Engineering?
CAREY: Fine. Why, is there a problem?
CHAKOTAY: You getting along all right with Lieutenant Torres?
CAREY: I think we've settled our differences.
JANEWAY: She was promoted to Chief Engineer over you, Lieutenant. That might be difficult for someone in your position to accept.
CAREY: Captain, I accepted your decision, and I've worked as hard as I can to make myself a valuable member of Lieutenant Torres's team. I can't believe she'd have any complaints about my performance.
JANEWAY: She doesn't.
CAREY: Then what am I doing here?
TUVOK: Lieutenant, have you had any contact with the Kazon-Nistrim since we arrived in the Delta Quadrant?
CAREY: What? You mean me, personally? No, of course not.
CHAKOTAY: You were out of contact for almost an hour on the planet where we encountered the Kazon.
CAREY: You mean when I was picking those poisoned apples?
JANEWAY: What about before we arrived at the planet? Did you have any reason to signal the Kazon-Nistrim ship?
CAREY: No.
TUVOK: Nevertheless, a signal was sent to the Kazon from your station in Engineering during our dorsal emitter test last week.
CAREY: My station?
TUVOK: Were you not in Engineering at that time?
CAREY: Well, yes, I was, but you know how it is down there during a systems analysis.
CHAKOTAY: Did you see anyone else at your station?
CAREY: Honestly, I don't remember. Maybe you should ask Seska.
JANEWAY: Why Seska?
CAREY: Everybody knows she was found in the cave with the Kazon. Look, I'm not saying she did anything wrong, but I didn't either.
JANEWAY: I'd like to believe you, Mister Carey, but somebody did contact the Kazon. And until we know who, I'm going to have to restrict you to quarters.
JANEWAY: What do you think?
CHAKOTAY: He had the motive and the opportunity.
JANEWAY: He's also had a distinguished Starfleet career. Seska has spent most of the last two years as an enemy of the Federation.
CHAKOTAY: So have I.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, we're being hailed by the approaching Kazon ship.
JANEWAY: How soon will they be here?
KIM: Four minutes.
JANEWAY: I wish we had something more definitive to tell them. Open a channel. I am Kathryn Janeway, Captain of the Federation Starship Voyager.
CULLUH (screen): My name is Culluh, First Maje of the Kazon-Nistrim. What have you done to our ship?
JANEWAY: We responded to a call for help. Unfortunately, by the time we were able to respond, all but one of the crew were dead.
CULLUH (screen): I would like to speak to the survivor.
JANEWAY: He hasn't regained consciousness. We have him in our Sickbay. We'd be happy to beam you aboard so you can see him.
CULLUH (screen): You will prepare for my arrival.
PARIS: Friendly sort.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Ah, Captain. I'm glad you're here. I was just about to call you.
JANEWAY: Doctor, this is First Maje Culluh of the Kazon-Nistrim. Could you give us the latest condition report on your Kazon patient?
EMH: Well, the good news is, we've been able to stabilize him. We had to completely replace his blood.
CULLUH: Replace his blood? With what?
JANEWAY: The blood of volunteers from our crew. They saved his life.
EMH: His own blood cells were killing him. They were changed by the accident on his ship.
CULLUH: Changed in what manner?
EMH: We haven't been able to determine that yet.
JANEWAY: We've been working on a plan to access the source of the explosion, which should answer a lot of the questions.
CULLUH: That will no longer be necessary. We will take the damaged vessel to our port for inspection.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I can't allow you to do that just yet.
CULLUH: And what gives you the right to interfere in our affairs?
JANEWAY: There was a trace of a Federation compound in the remains of the explosion. We have reason to believe that someone on board this ship gave technology to your people. Until we have a better explanation of what occurred, I can't release that ship to you.
CULLUH: That is not acceptable.
JANEWAY: It will have to be.
CULLUH: Your unique technologies make you brave, Captain, but you have only one ship. In less than a day there will be four Kazon vessels off your bow.
JANEWAY: Perhaps by then we'll have the answers we need.
CULLUH: You will leave us with him.
JANEWAY: I assume they'll want to take him back to their ship. I'd rather not let them do it just yet in case he regains consciousness. There are a lot of questions he can answer. Can I tell them it's not safe to move him?
EMH: It will be the truth.
JANEWAY: Good.
EMH: He's dead.
JANEWAY: Get off this ship.
EMH: There was some kind of nerve toxin in that needle. He died instantly. Captain, may we talk to you in my office?

[Doctor's office]
EMH: It's about Seska.
JANEWAY: Complications?
KES: I was analyzing her blood chemistry to try to locate a compatible donor. But when I got the results, her blood was lacking all the common Bajoran blood factors.
JANEWAY: Meaning?
SESKA: The only conclusion we can reach is that she is not, in fact, Bajoran. It appears Seska has been genetically altered. My suspicion is she was born Cardassian.

[Ready room]
CHAKOTAY: You're making me to believe she's a Cardassian agent who infiltrated the Maquis?
TUVOK: Starfleet Security has documented several incidents in which Cardassian have used cosmetic alterations for the purpose of infiltrating an enemy.
CHAKOTAY: This is crazy. This is just impossible.
TUVOK: The Doctor has informed us that there's no other plausible explanation for the medical anomalies, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: If you don't mind, I'd like to hear her explanation before we dismiss it. Has she been told?
JANEWAY: No.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like to be the one who questions her.
JANEWAY: I suggest we wait until we retrieve the console. Janeway to Torres.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Your status?
TORRES: We're finished with the computer simulations.

[Ready room]
TORRES (voiceover): Everything looks okay. We're ready to beam over.
JANEWAY: Good. Then let's get started. Janeway out.
CHAKOTAY: You were working for her. Seska was working for them. Was anyone on board that ship working for me?

[Bridge]
KIM: The Kazon ship is hailing us.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. On screen.
CULLUH (screen): Our sensors show that you are trespassing on our vessel.
JANEWAY: As I've already informed you, we're attempting to retrieve the console that caused this explosion.
CULLUH (screen): If you attempt to remove anything from our ship, it will be considered an act of war.
JANEWAY: You know, I'm really easy to get along with most of the time. But I don't like bullies, and I don't like threats, and I don't like you, Culluh. You can try and stop us from getting to the truth, but I promise you, if you do I will respond with all the unique technologies at my command. Janeway out.
TUVOK: Their weapon systems are standing down. They do not appear to be posing a threat to us at this time.
JANEWAY: At least not until reinforcements get here. Janeway to Away team.
TORRES (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: I don't want to rush you, Lieutenant, but
TORRES (voiceover): We're finished, Captain.
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon?
TORRES (voiceover): Decontamination went exactly as planned. The console has been transported to Engineering, and we're on our way back now.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Well done, Away team. We'll meet you in Engineering.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Of all the things to die for. It's a food replicator, or at least it was trying to be.
JANEWAY: We may take replicators for granted, but imagine what it would mean to a culture that doesn't have this technology.
TORRES: They didn't use a thick enough interior shield casing. Once the nucleonic radiation leaked out, a cascade reaction was inevitable.
JANEWAY: Can you tell if any part of the console came from out ship?
TORRES: There's no doubt about it, Captain. The pattern buffer relays are clearly composed of bio-neural fibers. No other Federation ship would have them. Somebody on board Voyager gave them what they needed. I guess they just didn't know what to do with it.
JANEWAY: I want a complete report on everything we've found so I can share it with our Kazon friends.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: We've recovered the console. It's a replicator, constructed with materials from Voyager.
SESKA: I suppose now everyone thinks I went over there to destroy the evidence.
CHAKOTAY: Did you?
SESKA: I was only trying to show everyone, show you. You really think I had something to do with this, don't you?
CHAKOTAY: To be honest, I'm not sure anymore. I'm not sure of a lot of things.
SESKA: Well, why don't you go talk to your animal guide and figure it all out?
CHAKOTAY: I plan to.
SESKA: Good. Get back to me when you do.
CHAKOTAY: You know, it's funny. I've been thinking about what's been real and what's not been real.
SESKA: What is this about? What's wrong with you? Talk to me, Chakotay. You owe me that much.
CHAKOTAY: What would you say I owe to a Cardassian who infiltrated my crew?
SESKA: What are you talking about?
CHAKOTAY: Isn't that why you never got around to a blood analysis when we came on board?
SESKA: I didn't get around to it because I didn't get around to it.
CHAKOTAY: Turns out your blood is missing all the common Bajoran blood factors.
SESKA: It's a side effect of Orkett's disease. Ask your doctor.
CHAKOTAY: Orkett's disease.
SESKA: A childhood virus that swept through the Bajoran work camps during the occupation. Thousands of children didn't survive. I did, thanks to a bone marrow transplant from a sympathetic Cardassian woman. Her name was Kattell. When we get home, you can ask her yourself. You must think I'm horrible. Do you think I gave you my, my heart to get your Maquis secrets?
CHAKOTAY: I'm starting to wonder.
SESKA: Let me tell you something. Your secrets weren't good enough. They wouldn't have been worth the trouble for a Cardassian agent. I had only one agenda with you, Chakotay, and I never kept it secret. So, do you believe in me again?
CHAKOTAY: I want to.
SESKA: Good. Because I want to go back to work.
CHAKOTAY: Let's not rush things.
SESKA: I'm going stir crazy in here.
CHAKOTAY: You're going to have to stay confined, at least until we find out exactly where the replicator components were taken from.
SESKA: Well, what'll that tell you?
CHAKOTAY: There might be evidence of who took them.
SESKA: Oh, you don't think whoever did this is foolish enough to log in using their own name?
CHAKOTAY: Chief Inspector Tuvok leaves no stone unturned. I'll tell the Captain what you told me. Somehow we'll try to clear this up soon.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: She said a Cardassian bone marrow transplant saved her life as a child.
TUVOK: Did you set our plan in motion? I gave Lieutenant Carey the same information.
CHAKOTAY: Now all we can do is wait and hope someone takes the bait.

[Engineering]
TUVOK: Gin.
CHAKOTAY: I never knew Vulcans had such a talent for cards.
TUVOK: It is simply a matter of logical discards, which give a false impression of my own requirements and deny the needed cards to your hand. I believe that's ninety four points to me.
CHAKOTAY: If you ever need a sponsor in a gin tournament, let me know.
TORRES: We're picking up two more Kazon warships about six hours away. We're not going to be able to stay her much
CHAKOTAY: That's sounds like a nibble to me.
TUVOK: Someone is accessing the inventory data base.
TORRES: And they're going straight to the missing replicator materials.
CHAKOTAY: Should we start the trace now?
TUVOK: Negative. It might alert them.
TORRES: They're entering data.
TUVOK: Intriguing. It appears as though they're trying to place evidence at the scene of the crime to indicate the guilty party.
TORRES: They're entering an encrypted security code into the materials requisition file.
CHAKOTAY: Which would suggest they're hiding it. But not very well.
TORRES: Anybody know whose security code that belongs to?
CHAKOTAY: I do. It's Seska's.
TORRES: Then it has to be Carey. Carey is trying to point the finger at Seska.

[Sickbay]
SESKA: Chakotay. Is anything wrong?
CHAKOTAY: It's over. We know who gave the technology to the Kazon.
SESKA: Who?
CHAKOTAY: You did.
SESKA: Look, I don't know what evidence you think you've found, but
CHAKOTAY: We found the evidence you put there for us to find. Your own security code.
SESKA: I have no idea what you're talking about.
CHAKOTAY: We already knew where the stolen materials had been taken from before I met with you. We were monitoring the inventory manifest, hoping either you or Carey would try to cover your tracks.
SESKA: Hell of a way for me to cover my tracks, putting in my own security code for you to find.
CHAKOTAY: That's exactly what you did. You knew no one would believe you could be that careless. You wanted us to believe that someone else was trying to frame you.
SESKA: Ever consider that maybe someone was?
CHAKOTAY: We traced the computer station used to enter the data. Oh, you took us all around the system and back again before we could locate the source, but it was this station, in Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: I'd almost say it was a Maquis operation, if I didn't already know you were a Cardassian. Computer, activate Emergency Holographic Medical Program.
EMH: Ah. Have I been called to testify?
CHAKOTAY: Before you even mentioned Orkett's disease to me, the Doctor had already discounted that as a possible explanation for your blood anomalies.
EMH: And may I say a doctor less informed about Bajoran medicine might have been fooled, but my program includes the complete Bajoran medical text on Orkett's disease. There's no way any childhood virus or Cardassian bone marrow transplant can explain away the genetic markers in your blood. You are Cardassian, Ensign.
CHAKOTAY: But that didn't necessarily make you the traitor we were looking for. We needed more evidence, and you gave it to us. The one thing I still can't understand is why?
SESKA: I did it for you. I did it for this crew. We are alone here, at the mercy of any number of hostile aliens, because of the incomprehensible decision of a Federation Captain. A Federation Captain who destroyed our only chance to get home. Federation rules. Federation nobility. Federation compassion? Do you understand, if this had been a Cardassian ship, we would be home now. We must begin to forge alliances. To survive, we must have powerful friends. The Kazon-Nistrim were willing to be our protectors in return for some minor technology.
JANEWAY: Minor technology that could change the balance of power in this quadrant.
SESKA: Change it in our favor! That is all that matters at this point. Building a base of power in this quadrant. You are a fool, Captain, and you're a fool to follow her. I can't imagine how I ever loved you. Computer, command XJL.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, override transport in progress.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Security lockout is in place.
JANEWAY: Computer, identify destination of transport.
COMPUTER: A Kazon vessel fourteen kilometers off the port bow.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Bridge to Janeway.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
PARIS: The Kazon ship

[Sickbay]
PARIS (voiceover): Is powering up its engines. It looks like they're getting ready to go to warp.
JANEWAY: Ready a tractor beam.
PARIS (voiceover): I've also got two Kazon warships on an intercept course less than ten minutes away.
TUVOK: Captain, even with our superior defense capabilities, we cannot prevail against three Kazon warships.
PARIS (voiceover): Awaiting your instructions, Captain.
JANEWAY: Power down the tractor beam. Set a course out of here, Mister Paris, warp four. Engage when ready.
PARIS (voiceover): Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: We'll have to wait for another day to settle up with Seska.

[Mess hall]
CHAKOTAY: Can I ask you to be honest with me, Lieutenant?
TUVOK: As a Vulcan, I am at all times honest, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: That's not exactly true. You lied to me when you passed yourself off as a Maquis to get on my crew.
TUVOK: I was honest to my own convictions within the defined parameters of my mission.
CHAKOTAY: You damned Vulcans and your defined parameters. That's easy for you.
TUVOK: On the contrary. The demands on a Vulcan's character are extraordinarily difficult. Do not mistake composure for ease. How may I be honest with you today?
CHAKOTAY: I'd just like to know, from someone else who pulled the wool over my eyes, was I particularly naive? Was I not paying enough attention? What the hell was it that let all you spies get by me?
TUVOK: Like all humans, you depend on feelings and instincts to guide you, and they invariably let you down. But particularly naive? No, Commander, and I've always considered your attention span to be adequate.
CHAKOTAY: Did you ever see anything about Seska that make you suspicious?
TUVOK: No. She quite expertly pulled the wool over my eyes as well.
CHAKOTAY: Well, that makes me feel a little better. Thanks.
TUVOK: Curious.
CHAKOTAY: What?
TUVOK: That my failure, added to your own, should improve your feelings.
CHAKOTAY: Misery loves company, Tuvok.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48693.2. We've altered course to investigate some unusually intense photonic activity in a nearby protostar. Lieutenant Torres and I are beaming aboard samples for further analysis.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Containment field is active. We're ready for transport.
JANEWAY: Energize.
TORRES: That's strange. Both containers should have been filled.
JANEWAY: Here's the problem. A slight breach in the annular confinement beam.
TORRES: I'm aborting transport. Okay, let's try that again. Energizing.
TORRES: All right. I'll get a complete phase spectrum analysis on this as soon as possible.
JANEWAY: If this photonic matter works as well as I think, it could boost the efficiency of our power converters fifteen percent.
TORRES: I'd say more like twenty.
JANEWAY: How long will it take to finish the preliminary analysis?
TORRES: Um, six hours. Maybe more.
JANEWAY: I'd like to get it sooner than that. I believe Ensign Kim is off duty. Could you use his help?
TORRES: Can you convince him to give up his free time?
JANEWAY: I think I might be able to. Janeway to Kim. That's odd. Computer, locate Ensign Kim.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Ensign Kim is not aboard the ship.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Sensor logs show no record of any unauthorized transporter activity and all shuttlecraft are accounted for. If Ensign Kim left the ship, he did not do so by conventional means.
CHAKOTAY: His last shift ended four hours ago, and he was scheduled for time on holodeck two when he went off duty. No one has seen him since.
JANEWAY: Scan the holodeck. What's the matter?
TUVOK: There is significant interference in the holodeck. I cannot obtain a clear scan.
JANEWAY: Is it a system malfunction?
TUVOK: I do not believe so.
JANEWAY: Commander.

[Outside Holodeck two]
TUVOK: The holodeck is definitely active. There appears to be a program in progress.
CHAKOTAY: Can you shut it down?
TUVOK: Manual overrides are not functioning. I cannot terminate the program.
CHAKOTAY: All right, let's go in.

[Holodeck - Forest]
CHAKOTAY: Computer, identify program.
COMPUTER: The program in progress is a holonovel based on the epic Earth poem Beowulf.
TUVOK: Beowulf?
CHAKOTAY: An ancient English epic, set in sixth century Denmark, if I remember correctly. It's about a hero named Beowulf who fights a creature that's terrorizing a kingdom and murdering its subjects. Monsters and swordplay. That sort of thing.
TUVOK: I'm not detecting any life signs but there's still considerable interference.
CHAKOTAY: I can't determine the source.
FREYA: Speak as a friend or stand challenged.
TUVOK: Computer, delete character.
CHAKOTAY: The holodeck command systems must not be functioning either.
TUVOK: We must also consider the possibility that the safety programs are malfunctioning as well.
FREYA: I am Freya, shield maiden, daughter of King Hrothgar. I hold this guard post against any intruders who would bear us harm, so declare yourselves. I will hear your answer before you march any further through this land.
TUVOK: We have no desire to trespass. However, we are on an urgent mission, so if you would allow us to continue, we would appreciate it.
FREYA: What land do you call home? Your faces tell me you are not men of the Danes. Are you kinsmen of Beowulf?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. We are Beowulf's kinsmen. My name is Chakotay and this is Tuvok. Have you seen Beowulf?
FREYA: Yes. He was like no other. Hair straight and raven black. Eyes bright with fierce fire. The burning gaze of a hero.
TUVOK: Grandiloquence notwithstanding, that would qualify as a description of Mister Kim. How did you know he was Beowulf?
CHAKOTAY: This is Harry's holonovel. It'd make sense that he'd be playing the hero. She might be able to help us figure out what happened to him.
TUVOK: A reasonable assumption.
FREYA: Your kinsman was a truly noble warrior. It is right you should avenge his death.
CHAKOTAY: Yes. But first we'd like to know more about how Beowulf died.
FREYA: Of course. Come. I will take you to the king.

[Holodeck - Great Hall]
FREYA: Hail, Lord Hrothgar! I bring new friends, Chakotay and Tuvok, kinsmen of Beowulf who come to avenge his death. Greet them well.
HROTHGAR: I would bid you welcome to my hall, but the days of glad tidings are gone from this place. We grieve with you for your kinsman. We had hoped that a warrior of Beowulf 's strength and renown would be able to deliver us from our curse.
CHAKOTAY: Could you tell us exactly what happened to him?
UNFERTH: He met with the same fate as did thirty of our own warriors.
HROTHGAR: It's true. Grendel.
CHAKOTAY: That's the monster who's been attacking you.
HROTHGAR: Repelled by light and laughter, the beast waits until we slumber. Then bereft of remorse, Grendel comes in murderous rage to my hall to take my people, and there is nothing anyone can do to stop it. If you are wise, you will forego your vengeance and return home. Death lives here now.
UNFERTH: My lord is fatigued. It is time to retire.
TUVOK: We would like more information about Beowulf. Would it be possible to examine his body?
FREYA: The body of Beowulf is gone, dragged down to Grendel's foul lair, no doubt. The beast leaves no traces.
CHAKOTAY: Did anyone actually see the battle?
FREYA: No. Beowulf chose to face Grendel alone.
CHAKOTAY: Then I think we'd like to see this Grendel for ourselves.
UNFERTH: To what purpose? To raise false hopes in our king again, as did your kinsman? Leave us alone in our misery.
FREYA: Unferth, these men are our guests. You will show them the hospitality they deserve.
UNFERTH: They deserve nothing! If their Beowulf was truly the champion he claimed to be, then Grendel would be dead, his head mounted on a spear! Instead, we spend yet another night in terror.
TUVOK: If you would allow us to assist you, perhaps we could help alleviate your terror.
UNFERTH: Your names mean nothing to me. There are no songs of your deeds nor stories of the battles you have fought. Who are you to believe you can slay Grendel?
TUVOK: We have no intention of slaying anyone. We simply wish to examine the creature.
UNFERTH: Grendel might not wish to be examined without a fight. And if you would fight Grendel, then you will first prove your worth to me. Defend yourselves!
HROTHGAR: You are able warriors. You may stand sentry tonight.
FREYA: You are brave men. I hope to see you again, fate permitting.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Janeway.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain, we haven't found any definite signs of Harry, but we've encountered several holodeck characters who claim to know what happened to him.
TUVOK (voiceover): Mister Kim was running a holonovel based on the poem Beowulf. According to the holo characters, he attempted to battle a creature of some kind and was killed in the process.
JANEWAY: Killed?
TUVOK (voiceover): Since the

[Holodeck - Great Hall]
TUVOK: Safety programs are malfunctioning, we must consider the possibility.
JANEWAY (voiceover): But you haven't found a body.
CHAKOTAY: No. If we shut down the program, we'd know if he's here or not.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Run a diagnostic on the holodeck's imaging control systems. If they're not working, try to repair them. And relay your tricorder scans to the Bridge. I'd like to analyze your readings.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Aye, Captain. Chakotay out.

[Holodeck - Great Hall]
TUVOK: Primary imaging matrix should be here behind this wooden panel. I will attempt to locate the auxiliary matrix. This ancient Earth culture seems fascinated with monsters.
CHAKOTAY: Every culture has its demons. They embody the darkest emotions of its people. Giving them physical form in heroic literature is a way of exploring those feelings. The Vok'sha of Rakella Prime believe that hate is a beast which lives inside the stomach. Their greatest mythical hero is a man who ate stones for twenty three days to kill the beast and became a saint.
TUVOK: Such fables are necessary only in cultures which unduly emphasize emotional behavior. I would point out there are no demons in Vulcan literature.
CHAKOTAY: That might account for its popularity.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Bridge to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay here.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Commander

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We've analyzed your tricorder data. A deep-level scan shows minute quantities of photonic energy.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): How could it be in the holodeck?
TORRES: We think it happened when we beamed aboard the samples from the protostar. There was a breach in the annular confinement beam, and photonic energy must have leaked into the transporter system.
JANEWAY: And from there into other ship systems as well. We've already found some in the replicators.
TUVOK (voiceover): That raises an uncomfortable possibility, Captain.

[Holodeck - Great Hall]
TUVOK: If the holodeck's conversion nodes were contaminated, Ensign Kim may have inadvertently undergone the process of matter conversion.
CHAKOTAY: You're saying he might have been converted into energy?

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We have to consider it a possibility. After all, the holodeck are basically an outgrowth of transporter technology, changing energy into matter and back again every time a program is run.
TORRES: Except it's not supposed to convert people.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Hold on, Captain.

[Holodeck - Great Hall]
CHAKOTAY: Something's coming.
TUVOK: It is an object approximately one meter in diameter.
CHAKOTAY: I think Grendel may be paying us a visit.
TUVOK: Captain, the holo-characters told us Kim was killed by Grendel. An examination of this part of the program might be advisable.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Proceed.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Captain, I'm picking up signs of matter energy conversion.
JANEWAY: Emergency transport. Get them out of there now.
TORRES: I can't get a lock.
JANEWAY: Commander Chakotay, report. Mister Tuvok.
TORRES: Captain, I've lost their life signs. They're gone.

[Briefing room]
TORRES: This is a scan of the holodeck just before we lost contact with Chakotay and Tuvok. The readings are pretty garbled, but I'm still inclined to think there is a malfunction in the holodeck's matter conversion nodes.
JANEWAY: Photonic energy leaking into the subsystems could certainly damage the nodes, and it might have created a defect in the program that occurs when Grendel shows up.
TORRES: A defect that dematerialized our people.
PARIS: I'm not willing to accept the fact that Harry and the others are gone for good. Their molecular patterns might still be there. And if they are, we might be able to rematerialize them. The only thing we can do is go back into the holodeck, study this energy surge, find out what exactly happened.
TORRES: Anyone who goes back in there might wind up just like the others.
PARIS: Maybe not anyone.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Me?
PARIS: A hologram can't be converted into energy. It already is energy. You're the perfect choice.
EMH: How do you intend to transfer me out of Sickbay?
JANEWAY: We'll have to modify your data stream protocols and imaging systems. But the fact that you're going to the holodeck simplifies things. The projection systems are already in place there.
TORRES: And we're going to give you complete control over your magnetic containment field. You'll be able to make yourself solid or let matter pass through you at will.
JANEWAY: Nothing on the holodeck will be able to touch you unless you want it to.
EMH: I see.
JANEWAY: Think of this as your first away mission, Doctor. I can understand your hesitation. But there are three lives at stake, and you have the best chance of anyone on this ship to save them. Do you understand that?
EMH: Yes.
JANEWAY: Good. Your job is to find the photonic energy surge and scan it closely. We need all the data we can get. You'll have to interact with the characters in the holonovel, so make sure you're familiar with the Beowulf story. Your circuit modifications will be finished in three hours.
EMH: Yes, Captain.
EMH: Computer, access full text of ancient Earth epic Beowulf including historical annotation and cultural references.
COMPUTER: Data compilation in progress.
KES: Doctor?
EMH: Ah, Kes. Come in. I don't know how long I'll be gone, but my absence is no reason to suspend your studies. How are you doing with the protein synthesis text?
KES: I finished it yesterday.
EMH: Good. Then you may as well start learning how to operate the base-pair sequencer. You'll find the manual in the technical database. Was there something else?
KES: There's something bothering you.
EMH: Not at all. Now if you'll excuse me, I have a great deal of preparation to do.
KES: You're nervous about this mission, aren't you?
EMH: Nervous? I can perform emergency surgery without getting nervous. I can make life-or-death decisions about patients without getting nervous. What makes you think I'm nervous?
KES: Those things are familiar to you. You've been programmed to do them but, this is different, isn't it?
EMH: I can describe every detail of every piece of equipment in this Sickbay from biobed to neurostimulator, but I've never even seen a sky or a forest, let alone Vikings and monsters. I can't afford to fail but I don't know what to expect in that holodeck.
KES: You've been telling me that you deserve to be treated like a member of the crew. Well, here's your chance. And I can tell you that none of the crew knows exactly what to expect when they go on an away mission. Doctor, have you chosen a name for yourself yet?
EMH: I have narrowed the list to three possibilities.
KES: Then let me suggest you choose one before you go. It might help you feel more like a Starfleet officer.
EMH: You may be right. I'll give it some thought. And Kes, thank you.
KES: Good luck.
PARIS: Paris to Janeway. We're ready for the transfer, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Good. Go ahead.
PARIS: How about you, Doctor? Are you ready?
EMH: Of course.
PARIS: I've already transported a tricorder onto the holodeck. Engaging transfer circuits now.

[Holodeck - Forest]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Is everything all right, Doctor?
EMH: Yes. There were no problems with the transfer. I'm on my way.
FREYA: Speak as a friend or stand challenged. I am
EMH: Yes, you're Freya, the king's daughter. A female warrior known as a Shield maiden.
FREYA: We have never met and yet you know my name? Are you a sorcerer?
EMH: No. It's simply that your reputation precedes you. A warrior of your skill. You're quite famous where I come from.
FREYA: I did not know that word of my deeds has carried to other lands. Tell me what you have heard.
EMH: Well, your battle with
FREYA: Scyld, the Gar-Dane?
EMH: It's practically legend. An incredible story.
FREYA: I burned his hall to the ground. There was nothing left but ashes.
EMH: Charming.
FREYA: And did you hear of my campaign against the Heatho-bards to the south? I fought them for
EMH: I'd be delighted to hear all about it but I'm on an urgent mission of my own. I'm looking for Grendel.
FREYA: Only a warrior would seek that which others flee. What is your name?
EMH: I'm glad you asked. My name is Schweitzer. Doctor Schweitzer.
FREYA: Schweitzer. A hero's name. Come, I will take you to the king. The hall is not far from here.
FREYA: Look, fortune is with us. Atuta, a most powerful plant.
EMH: What exactly do you intend to do with it?
FREYA: We brew the Atuta into a broth which we drink before battle. It brings on the spirit of the bear and gives us strength to swing our swords.
EMH: It's more likely to bring on profuse sweating, convulsions and acute delirium. This is an amonita muscaria, a fungus common to sub-arctic climates and, let me assure you, quite poisonous.
FREYA: Yes, but those it does not kill it makes strong. A most hardy plant. Are you a master of herb lore?
EMH: In a way, I suppose I am.
FREYA: You are truly a man of many talents, Lord Schweitzer. Your people must value you greatly.
EMH: You would think so.

[Holodeck - Great Hall]
FREYA: Hail, Lord Hrothgar! I bring a new friend, Schweitzer, who has come to destroy Grendel. Greet him well.
HROTHGAR: I would bid you welcome to my hall, but the days of glad tidings are gone from this place.
EMH: I'm sorry to hear that, but with your permission, sir, I'd like to stay here tonight and wait for Grendel.
UNFERTH: To what purpose? To raise false hopes again, as have others before you? Leave us alone in our misery.
EMH: I'm afraid I can't do that. I have a mission.
UNFERTH: Your name means nothing to me. There are no songs of your deeds nor stories of the battles you have fought. Who are you to believe you can slay Grendel?
EMH: I'm simply a warrior. I'm only concerned with Grendel. I have no quarrel with you.
UNFERTH: Indeed you do. And if you will fight Grendel, then you will first prove your worth to me. Defend yourself!
FREYA: Fate be with you.
UNFERTH: If this is your best, then you should thank me. Grendel would destroy you with far greater ease than I.
EMH: This is absurd.
UNFERTH: So be it.
EMH: You might want to put some ice on that. It'll take down the swelling.
FREYA: Our time of deliverance is at hand. We have been given a new champion, one whom weapons cannot hurt! The one who will destroy Grendel and end our suffering! All hail the hero! All hail Schweitzer!
ALL: All hail Schweitzer! Schweitzer!
HROTHGAR: Eat. Eat.
EMH: What is it?
HROTHGAR: Elk. When I built this hall, the forest ran thick with them. But today, game's more scarce. Enjoy it, Lord Schweitzer. It is a great delicacy in our land.
EMH: It's quite good.
HROTHGAR: We rarely hear stories of other lands. Honor us with a tale of your home to gladden our hearts.
EMH: I'm not much of a storyteller.
HROTHGAR: Please, indulge us.
UNFERTH: Yes. Tell us a tale of your prowess in battle.
EMH: Well, there was the time I managed to stop the spread of Paronisti measles before it became epidemic. For a while, things were touch-and-go. Six people came down with it. Fortunately, I was able to isolate the endoplasmic virus and replicate it in order to form an antibody. Even then, it wasn't altogether clear I could create an effective vaccine, but I worked at it for seventy four hours straight and managed to create an inoculation that successfully protected the crew.
UNFERTH: You'll excuse me, my lord, if I take leave of this folly.
HROTHGAR: A truly unique tale. Come, Lord Schweitzer. Allow me to show you my home. If you are in need of anything, please do not hesitate to ask.
EMH: All I need is to find Grendel.
HROTHGAR: You're a true champion, always ready for the fight. Ah, perhaps you would like some mead to fortify yourself for the battle.
EMH: No, thank you. I'm fine.
HROTHGAR: Away! You're disturbing Lord Schweitzer! It was with that weapon I made my first kill. I was eleven years old.
EMH: You killed someone when you were eleven?
HROTHGAR: Well, it's a poor weapon, I agree, but a token of my youth. You must have similar trophies from your own childhood.
EMH: I don't remember much about my childhood.
HROTHGAR: Well, I'm certain you distinguished yourself in battle many times and did honor to your father.
UNFERTH: My lord! It grows late. It is time to retire.
HROTHGAR: Always with you it is time to sleep. Perhaps you have forgotten that the work of a warrior is battle not rest. You would do well to learn from Lord Schweitzer. This was a beautiful hall once, before Grendel. You will make it so again. You have our thanks.
EMH: I appreciate your faith in me, sire.
DANE: Come, my lord.
UNFERTH: You may have deceived them with your tricks, but the king is old and desperate for hope, and the rest are just fools!
EMH: You have nothing to worry about, Unferth. Once I'm done with Grendel, I'll be leaving.
UNFERTH: We shall see. The morning will prove if your deeds are as strong as your words.
FREYA: The nights here are cold. I wanted to make certain you were comfortable.
EMH: I appreciate your concern. I thought everyone had gone to sleep.
FREYA: Sleep does not come easily in this place. Not anymore. I was taught the world would end in winter. First there would be a desperate cold, followed by a demon who would devour the sun. It has been long since we felt summer, and a demon does walk these halls.
EMH: Freya, your world isn't coming to an end.
FREYA: Perhaps not. But it has changed. Every night, the monster comes. And every day, our numbers are lessened and no one will speak of it. No one speaks of the fear that he will be next. Each meal become quieter than the last, and after time, we barely speak at all. Do you know what it is to be alone among many and unable to speak your fears?
EMH: I think I do.
FREYA: How do you survive?
EMH: I'm still learning how. I'm sure that's not very helpful.
FREYA: Sometimes I believe I can see the moment of my own death. It comes in battle, I think, my sword raised high. It is said that fate often spares a doomed warrior if his courage can prevail, but there have been days when I have felt my own courage falter, and then you came.
EMH: I'm glad I could help.
FREYA: Perhaps I can help you. Before combat, it is most important to stay warm.
EMH: Well, you've done an excellent job with the fire. I'm sure I'll
FREYA: Fire is not the only heat, Lord Schweitzer. You know where I sleep.
EMH: Holodeck to Bridge.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We're monitoring you.
EMH: Captain, I'm picking up readings of photonic energy.
EMH: Captain, it's right in front of me. It's some kind of photonic energy formation.
EMH: Emergency! Get me out of here!

[Bridge]
EMH (voiceover): Now!
JANEWAY: Sickbay, emergency transfer.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: I'm on it.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Sickbay. Report.
PARIS: Er, I have him, Captain, more or less. I think you'd better come take a look at this.
PARIS: How does it feel?
EMH: Just like the old one, actually.
JANEWAY: Apparently, contact with photonic energy disrupted your magnetic cohesion, but we're still not sure if that's what happened to the others.
TORRES: Captain, take a look at this. The readings from the Doctor's tricorder when the energy surge made contact with him.
JANEWAY: They're showing a synaptic pattern. I wouldn't expect to see something like this in photonic energy. Is this the first time those patterns have shown up like this?
TORRES: Yes, but it's the first time we've had clear readings from a moment of contact. I wonder if I could produce these same patterns in the samples we have in Engineering.
JANEWAY: If you can, you might be able to get more information about how photonic energy damaged the holodeck systems.
TORRES: I'm on it.
PARIS: I'll give you a hand.

[Engineering]
PARIS: Okay, I've initiated a polarization field. I'm introducing it into the container.
TORRES: We're getting a reaction.
PARIS: It's producing a synaptic pattern, all right. Highly complex.
TORRES: What's that?
PARIS: Whatever it is, it's cutting through the bulkheads.
TORRES: Let's get a containment field around it.
PARIS: It's heading for deck fourteen, section C five.
TORRES: Okay, now I've got a containment field blocking it.
PARIS: Oh. It's changing direction. It's like it's avoiding the containment field.
TORRES: Let's give it another try. Now it's blocked on three sides.
PARIS: It's changing course, heading for the open side.
TORRES: Are you thinking what I'm thinking?
PARIS: Those synaptic patterns could be some sort of neural net.
TORRES: We may be dealing with a life form.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Bridge to Engineering.
TORRES: Torres here.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We're detecting an energy mass

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Moving through the ship.
TORRES (voiceover): Right. It broke through the sample container. Captain, it's showing the properties of a life form.
JANEWAY: A life form?

[Engineering]
TORRES: It seems to have a neural net, and it's demonstrating signs of intelligent behavior.
PARIS: It's cutting its way through the ship, heading for the outer hull. It'll breach in about fifteen seconds.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Are there any critical systems in its path?
PARIS: Negative.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Then let it go.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Be ready to seal the hull breach with a force field. I'll have a damage control team standing by for repairs. And let's track it on sensors when it gets out.
PARIS (voiceover): Captain

[Engineering]
PARIS: It's penetrating the outer hull.
TORRES: Force field is in place.
PARIS: I'm showing the energy form one hundred meters off our port side.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Let's get it on screen.
JANEWAY: What was that?

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: It appears to be some kind of photonic lattice.
TORRES: And it seems pretty clear that the energy form was trying to get back to it as though it's a shelter of some kind.
JANEWAY: Or maybe a transportation device. Their equivalent of a ship. At any rate, we had sensor contact for a few seconds, and we picked up three distinct bio-electrical patterns inside it.
EMH: Bio-electrical? What are you suggesting, Captain?
JANEWAY: We have three missing crewmen. Our best guess has been that they were somehow converted into energy while they were on the holodeck. We find no sign of them on this ship. Then we pick up three discrete patterns in that lattice. Three patterns that don't match anything else in that lattice, and which have biological components. I don't think it's a stretch to hypothesize that those are our crew members, converted into a kind of photonic energy.
TORRES: But what are they doing over there? How did they get there?
JANEWAY: We have good evidence now that there are photonic beings that live in that protostar. Life forms that have intelligence. We didn't know that when we beamed those energy samples on board. We had no idea that what we were doing, in essence, was capturing those life forms. We locked them in a containment field and began to experiment on them. If my people were taken like that, I know what my response would be. I would do whatever was necessary to get them back.
EMH: Then you think they have simply retaliated against us?
JANEWAY: Yes. These beings can manifest themselves on the holodeck in the matrix of a holo-character. That's how they were able to take our crew members hostage.
EMH: Captain, if you're right about this, then we should return the remaining life form.
JANEWAY: A gesture, to show we mean well. It's certainly worth a try.
EMH: If I took the life form onto the holodeck and released it to Grendel, maybe they'll understand and release our people.
JANEWAY: Ordinarily, officers go through intensive training before they're put into a first contact situation but you're the only one who can do this safely.
EMH: I'd like to finish what I started, Captain. I can do this.
JANEWAY: I agree. Make arrangements to transfer the life form to a container so the Doctor can carry it. But remember, if you're holding the container, you'll have to stay in solid form.
EMH: I understand.

[Holodeck - Forest]
EMH: Freya? Freya!
FREYA: Lord Schweitzer! We thought that Grendel had taken you.
EMH: Not entirely.
FREYA: How did you survive?
EMH: That would be difficult to explain. But, that's not important right now. This is a talisman to destroy Grendel. I
UNFERTH: You lie! No man could survive an encounter with Grendel unless he were in league with the beast. You have brought that talisman to destroy us all!
FREYA: That is not true! He has returned to help us.
UNFERTH: No! You speak his lies now. He has bewitched you.
EMH: Unferth, I need to get this talisman to the Hall.
UNFERTH: Then that gives me reason enough to make sure it never gets there.
EMH: No. Please, you don't know what you're doing.
UNFERTH: Prepare to die, demon.
EMH: Freya.
FREYA: My lord, my time has come.
EMH: Freya, I'm sorry. There's nothing I can do.
FREYA: It is a good death. Take my sword. Stop Unferth, and Grendel.
EMH: I won't forget you.
FREYA: Then I die happily with your name on my lips. Farewell, Schweitzer.

[Holodeck - Great Hall]
UNFERTH: Here, sire.
EMH: My lord, you know me as a true warrior. You know I am the one hope you have to rid your kingdom of Grendel. That talisman will aid me in my conquest. I must have it.
UNFERTH: Do not listen to him. He has already killed Freya.
UNFERTH: Stop him, my Lord! He is a madman!
EMH: The only reason you won't die is that I've taken an oath to do no harm.
EMH: Grendel, I'm ready for you.
EMH: I don't know if you can understand me, but watch, I'm setting this one free.
EMH: There's no need for any more of this. Please, we ask you to return our crew.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Captain, the photonic lattice has reappeared.
JANEWAY: Scan it. All sensors.
TORRES: I'm reading a massive particle surge on our holodeck.
PARIS: The lattice is gone again.
EMH (voiceover): Holodeck to Bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Doctor.

[Holodeck - Great Hall]
JANEWAY (voiceover): What is it?
EMH: We have them back, Captain. All three of them.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Good work, Doctor.
KIM: Yeah, good work. Would you mind telling me where I was?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48710.5. Since the return of our missing crewmen, we've been unable to locate any further traces of the photonic aliens.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: I don't know if the being understood language or just my behavior. It would have been interesting to pursue the relationship further.
JANEWAY: It's one of the most exciting aspects of space exploration, meeting new species, establishing communication, sharing differences and similarities.
EMH: I'm sorry none of that happened this time.
JANEWAY: But it did. It just didn't happen in very predictable ways. But if you think about it, we entered into conflict, communicated, and eventually established a peace treaty with them. I'm placing a special commendation in the logs for exemplary performance by the Chief Medical Officer during his first away mission.
EMH: Thank you.
JANEWAY: I'd like to cite you by name. Kes tells me you've chosen one. Is that true?

[Sickbay]
EMH: I had, but I'm not sure I want to keep it. The last time I heard that name spoken was a painful one. I don't think I want to be reminded.
JANEWAY: Sounds like you had quite an adventure on that holodeck, Doctor.
EMH: Yes, I would say so.
JANEWAY: Well, something tells me you haven't had your last one.
EMH: Something tells me the same thing.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48734.2. Sometimes it's a good idea to get away from being a Captain for a while. To that end, I've started participating in a new holonovel. The setting is ancient England.

[Holodeck - Victorian House]
TEMPLETON (voiceover): The drawing room is in here.
TEMPLETON: Bridget, take Mrs Davenport's cape, and tell Lord Burleigh that she's here.
BRIDGET: Yes, ma'am.
TEMPLETON: There's tea.
JANEWAY: That would be lovely. Thank you.
TEMPLETON: Tea is usually served at five thirty and dinner's at eight thirty. His lordship doesn't appreciate being kept waiting.
JANEWAY: I'll be sure to be prompt.
TEMPLETON: Let's make something clear, Mrs Davenport. My job is to make sure that this household runs smoothly. I have been with Lord Burleigh for nearly twenty years because this household runs smoothly. He has come to trust me, and I will not brook any behavior that might jeopardize that trust, so you will be expected to follow the rules that I have set down.
JANEWAY: Mrs Templeton, I have no wish to do anything that might disrupt this household but let me make something perfectly clear. I've been hired by Lord Burleigh, and it's his orders I will follow, not yours.
TEMPLETON: You would be wise not to make an enemy of me. I can make sure we have another governess by next week.
JANEWAY: I suggest we try to get along, Mrs Templeton. Surely there's room here for both of us?
TEMPLETON: One lump or two?
JANEWAY: Two, please.
TEMPLETON: Lord Burleigh will be here directly.
BURLEIGH: Forgive me. I've startled you.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. I didn't here you come in.
BURLEIGH: Mrs Davenport, I'll come to the point. I am not an easy man to live with. Since my wife died I'm told I'm even worse. She was a buffer for me.
JANEWAY: I understand.
BURLEIGH: The children are the ones who've suffered. I've not been much of a father to them, and God knows I can't be a mother. I'm not asking that you replace their mother, but I think that they'll respond to a woman's sensibilities. You might fill a void in their lives.
JANEWAY: I'll certainly try, your Grace.
BURLEIGH: Young Henry is sometimes a bit stubborn and little Beatrice misses her mother terribly. I hope they won't make things difficult for you. One thing above all I must demand. You are never, under any circumstances, to go onto the fourth floor. Is that clear?
KIM (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Mister Kim.
KIM (voiceover): I've got Commander Chakotay and

[Bridge]
KIM: Mister Tuvok's shuttlecraft on long range sensors, but they're not responding to our hails. The shuttle's been badly damaged. I'm reading multiple hull fractures.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Life signs?
KIM: Two, but they're very faint.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Beam them to Sickbay as soon as they're in range. I'm on my way.
KIM: Aye, Captain.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Doctor.
EMH: They've each taken a blast to the head by some kind of energy discharge. Cardiostimulator. Mister Tuvok has a serious concussion, but it's nothing I can't handle. As for Commander Chakotay, all of the bioneural energy has been extracted from his brain.
JANEWAY: Extracted?
EMH: Yes. From the looks of it, someone drained the energy from every single axon and dendrite right down to the synapses. I can keep his heart beating and I can keep him breathing, but other than that there's nothing I can do. He's brain dead.
TUVOK: The attack lasted no more than a few seconds, but it was highly effective. I feel Commander Chakotay and I are fortunate to be alive.
JANEWAY: What happened, Lieutenant?
TUVOK: We had completed our trade mission with the Ilidarians and were on course to the rendezvous point when we encountered a dark matter nebula. As we began a routine analysis, an unidentified ship emerged and attacked our shuttle.
JANEWAY: Any idea why?
TUVOK: No. They would not respond to our hails. We were hit by an energy discharge which penetrated our shields and filled the cabin. Commander Chakotay lost consciousness immediately, and I was barely able to activate the autopilot before I was overcome as well.
JANEWAY: And the alien ship?
TUVOK: The last image I saw was the ship flying back into the nebula, but the details are difficult to remember.
EMH: Can you tell me anything about the energy discharge? Its modulation or phase distribution?
TUVOK: No. There was no time for a detailed analysis. However, the shuttle's sensors may have recorded information that could be helpful. I will download the sensor logs.
JANEWAY: Why would someone want to extract his bioneural energy?
EMH: I don't know, but if I'm to have any hope of reviving him, I must know precisely how his neurons were depleted. It would be a great help if I could examine the weapon.
JANEWAY: We're going back to that nebula to try to find the ship that attacked you. Janeway to Bridge. Prepare to lay in a new course. Mister Tuvok will provide you with the coordinates.
PARIS (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: We'll keep you posted, Doctor.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The energy discharge overloaded the shuttlecraft's central computer core. All sensor data have been erased.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Torres is in Sickbay now. When she reports, tell her to go over those damaged sensor logs with a fine tooth comb to see if she can reconstruct any of the data.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Well, this is going to make things a little more difficult. I've been using the long range sensors to analyze the nebula you discovered. It's sending out strong electromagnetic radiation. We won't be able to scan inside it. You know, it sounds to me like a perfect hiding place.
TUVOK: I agree.
JANEWAY: I don't like the idea of going in there blind. Let me see if I can reconfigure the sensors to a multiphasic bandwidth.
TUVOK: Is there a problem?
JANEWAY: I've lost all sensor contact with the nebula. I don't understand. Wait a minute, we've altered course. Mister Paris?
PARIS: Our new heading is one twenty one mark six. We've completely come about, Captain, but it wasn't me.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, check the navigational computer. Who ordered the course change?
KIM: According to my readings, the command was issued from the conn.
PARIS: I'm telling you, it wasn't me, and the helm controls are working perfectly. No sign of a malfunction.
JANEWAY: Ensign, transfer helm control to your station and reset our original course.
KIM: Course laid in.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, I want you to run a full diagnostic on the conn station. See if you can isolate the problem.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.

[Sickbay]
EMH: You might have asked before adorning my Sickbay with animal remains.
TORRES: It's a medicine wheel, a talisman used by Chakotay's tribe. He once showed me how it works. He said if anything ever happened to him, that I should perform a special healing ritual.
EMH: Ah.
TORRES: The wheel represents both the universe outside and the universe inside our minds as well. They believe each is a reflection of the other. When a person is sleeping, or on a vision quest, it's said that his soul is walking the wheel. But if he's in a coma or near death, it means that he's gotten lost. These stones are signposts to help point the way back. Not exactly standard medical procedure, I know, but
EMH: You've placed the Coyote Stone at the crossroads of the fifth and sixth realms, which would divert Commander Chakotay's soul, that is his consciousness, into the Mountains of the Antelope Women. According to his tradition, an extremely attractive locale. He might not want to leave.
TORRES: How do you know about the medicine wheel?
EMH: It's my business to know about a variety of medical treatments, including those based on psycho-spiritual beliefs. Unfortunately, in this case, the medicine wheel won't be much help. There's just not enough of his mind left to work with.
TORRES: Find your way home, Commander.

[Kes's quarters]
KES: Hello? Is someone here?

[Mess Hall kitchen]
KES: It's like sensing some kind of presence, as if someone else were here.
NEELIX: Your telepathic senses again. Is this like last week, when you went into Sickbay and you knew Lieutenant Hargrove had been there, only he'd left hours before?
KES: It's not the same. That was like, like hearing faint music from a faraway place. When I was in my quarters just now
NEELIX: Mmm hmm?
KES: It was almost tangible. I felt like there was someone in the room with me.
NEELIX: Who was it?
KES: I don't know. A presence, that's all I can say.

[Bridge]
DURST: Warp engines still within normal parameters, Captain.
JANEWAY: We just changed course again. Mister Kim?
KIM: Our new heading is one twenty one mark six.
JANEWAY: Get us back on course.
KIM: The helm's not responding. I'm locked out.
TUVOK: This command station has been blocked.
JANEWAY: From where?
TUVOK: The lockout originated on deck twelve, section B seven, navigational control.
JANEWAY: See if you can re-establish control.
PARIS: I've checked every ODN junction in the helm control network, and I still can't find the problem.
JANEWAY: It seems we've developed a new problem while you were gone.
TUVOK: Helm control re-established.
JANEWAY: Get us back on course for the nebula. Janeway to Torres.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres here.
JANEWAY: Who's in the navigational control?
TORRES (voiceover): No one right now. I was there this morning, and Lieutenant Paris was in there just a few minutes ago.
PARIS: That's not true.
JANEWAY: Are you certain about that, B'Elanna?
TORRES (voiceover): Positive. I just saw him leave about five minutes ago.
JANEWAY: Janeway out. Explanation, Mister Paris?
PARIS: I passed by the navigational control on my way back from the Jefferies tube, but that's all. Am I being accused of something here?
TUVOK: We are merely following a line of deductive reasoning, Lieutenant. Both deviations from our course were apparently issued from locations where you were working.
PARIS: I'm telling you, I didn't do it.
JANEWAY: Well, I'm willing to rule out mutiny for time being. I believe you, Mister Paris, but we have to consider the possibility that you might be having a problem with your memory. I want you to go down to Sickbay. Have the doctor check you out.
PARIS: All right.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Durst.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Neurotransmitters at normal. Synaptic functions stable. Hold still. This is an extremely sensitive scan.
PARIS: What I wouldn't give to see good old Doc Brown right now.
EMH: What?
PARIS: Doc Brown. Lollipops in the waiting room, no holocomic books more than six months old, house calls. I caught a bad cold one time when I was nine years old. The doctor whipped up a pot of garlic soup and brought it over himself.
TUVOK: Your report, Doctor?
EMH: I still have a series of tests to perform, but other than his irritating lapses into nostalgia, I see nothing wrong with him.
PARIS: I guess you're going to have to round up another suspect, Tuvok.
TUVOK: On the contrary, Lieutenant. I ran a forensic sweep of the navigational control. I found traces of your DNA on the console.
PARIS: That's impossible.
TUVOK: The cellular residue you left behind is less than twelve hours old. Do you still wish to maintain your innocence?
PARIS: To be honest, I don't know what to think.
EMH: Perhaps my biomolecular scan will reveal something.
TUVOK: Keep me informed, Doctor.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I believe I have found the ion trail of the ship that attacked us. It leads directly into the dark matter nebula. This is the nebula, and this is the ion trail. As you can see, their flight path is highly erratic.
JANEWAY: These planetoids inside the nebula, they may be generating a dangerous gravitational effect, like storm currents. Chances are they've mapped those currents and they're taking the only safe way through.
TUVOK: A reasonable assumption. I recommend we follow their exact flight path.
JANEWAY: Agreed. Lay in a course to the
KIM: Captain, we're dropping to impulse power. I'm reading a massive energy drain all over the ship, and the warp core is shutting down.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. Report. Lieutenant Torres, please respond. Mister Kim, take the Bridge. Tuvok, you're with me.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Torres, what's going on?
TORRES: Captain?
JANEWAY: You've initiated an emergency warp core shutdown.
TORRES: What?
JANEWAY: Too late. The warp core is offline. It'll take at least two hours to regenerate the dilithium matrix. Ensign, get the rest of the systems back online. Apparently, you've just crashed the main computer, locked out the Bridge and stopped this ship cold. Do you want to tell me why?
TORRES: Captain, I don't know what you're talking about.
JANEWAY: What the hell is going on here?

[Sickbay]
EMH: I found something, and you're not going to like it. This is Mister Paris' memory engram for the last twenty four hours. As you can see, it has a very consistent and distinctive modulation, except at thirteen fifty hours. For one minute forty seven seconds, a different memory pattern appeared. Thirteen fifty hours is also the exact moment when Mister Paris presumably tampered with navigational control. It gets worse. In addition to that, there is another disruption at twelve oh two hours, the moment when he allegedly entered the new course at the helm. I also found there's an identical disruption in Lieutenant Torres's pattern at the moment she shut down warp power. I should point out that this is a neuroelectrical signature, what I believe to be another brain wave that was superimposed on their own.
PARIS: Another brain wave? Whose?
EMH: I don't know. It has an unusual energy signature, one I've never seen before.
JANEWAY: Doctor, what are you saying?
EMH: One possible explanation, and the only one I can think of at the moment, is that an unknown alien entity momentarily took control of their minds.
TUVOK: Intruder alert. All security personnel, go to Condition Four. Captain, it is possible the intruder returned with us in the shuttlecraft.
JANEWAY: If we're right and there is an alien here, it seems intent on preventing us from going back to the nebula. What's more, it seems to have the ability to jump from person to person. If that's true, it could be in any one of us, controlling our actions without us realizing it.
EMH: Well, except for me.
PARIS: That's true. So far it's only affected organic beings. If it could control the computer and navigational systems directly, it probably would've done it already.
JANEWAY: Which means the doctor is the only person on board we can trust at this moment. Doctor, until we have eliminated this alien presence, I can't take the risk that it could take over any of the senior officers. I'd like to transfer all command codes to you until further notice.
EMH: What would that mean? That I am in command?
JANEWAY: No, but you will act as a failsafe. If you feel at any time that any one of us are under the influence of the alien, you can countermand our orders and take control of the ship. Do you feel up to it?
EMH: Well, of course. I make life and death decisions every day.
PARIS: I feel better already.
JANEWAY: Computer, transfer all command codes to the holographic doctor. Authorisation Janeway eight four one alpha six five.
COMPUTER: Command code transfer complete.
JANEWAY: Let's see if we can get the warp core back online ahead of schedule.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.

[Corridor]
KES: Captain, I heard what's happened. I think you're right. There is an alien presence here, I've been sensing something unusual all day. I don't know how to describe it, but I know there's something here.
JANEWAY: Do you know where?
KES: No, just that it's on the ship.
TUVOK: Captain, Kes's telepathic abilities are undisciplined. If I could initiate a Vulcan mind-meld with her, I may be able to help her focus those abilities to detect the alien more accurately.
KES: I'm willing to do that.
JANEWAY: Very well. Proceed, Mister Tuvok.
KIM: The captain wants to seal off all critical areas of the ship. Make sure the access hatch of Jefferies tube A-seventeen is secured.
DURST: So what exactly are we securing against?
KIM: We're not sure yet, but we think it's some kind of noncorporeal alien.
DURST: Noncorporeal? That means it can probably move through a bulk
KIM: Medical emergency. Deck seven, section thirteen alpha.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. It appears that Mister Tuvok and Kes were both hit by an unidentified energy discharge. Tuvok was not badly hurt, but Kes is in a coma.

[Briefing room]
TUVOK: It was similar to the attack on the shuttlecraft. An energy discharge came through the bulkhead, filled the turbolift and hit both of us.
TORRES: We didn't pick up a discharge of any kind on the internal sensors.
TUVOK: Perhaps this type of energy is beyond our sensor bandwidth.
JANEWAY: Perhaps, but that discharge had to come from somewhere.
PARIS: The most thorough scanning device we have on board is a magneton scanner. We could search the ship centimeter by centimeter, but that wouldn't do much good. This alien could be anywhere at any time.
TORRES: But what if we could perform a magneton scan on the entire ship all at once?
JANEWAY: What do you suggest?
TORRES: A magneton flash scan. We could reconfigure every sensor array on the ship to emit a single burst. It might be enough to illuminate any anomalous energy. Harry, what do you think?
KIM: Whoa. What did I do?
TUVOK: Stay where you are, Mister Kim.
TORRES: I don't see anything unusual, but that doesn't mean anything.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, what were you doing just now?
KIM: I was just thinking. I was remembering an old study I saw about magneton scanners. I guess my mind started to wander a bit.
JANEWAY: I'm very disturbed by what just happened here. We don't have any idea what occurs when someone is occupied by this alien presence. If we start pointing a finger every time someone gets distracted, it won't be long before outright paranoia starts sweeping the ship. Tuvok, B'Elanna, I want you to get started on that magneton flash scan. It's worth a try. Dismissed.

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: And that's not all. Ensign Parsons ordered his pejuta cold.
EMH: So?
NEELIX: He always drinks it hot. Hot! With lemon. But not today. Today it's cold pejuta, hold the lemon.
EMH: Mister Neelix, just because a man changes his drink order doesn't mean he's possessed by an alien.
NEELIX: Nevertheless, don't you think you should scan him or dissect him or something, just to make sure?
EMH: I could examine every crew member you've mentioned so far, every person on board, for that matter and it wouldn't do any good. From what we can tell, the alien can jump from person to person at will.
NEELIX: It sounds to me like you're defending Ensign Parsons.
EMH: I'm not defending him, I'm just pointing out that you're acting a little paranoid. In fact, one could say you're acting a little too paranoid.
NEELIX: Are you suggesting that I, that I could possibly? Doctor, I can assure you, not even an alien intruder could make me do anything to hurt Kes.
EMH: All I'm suggesting, Mister Neelix, is that paranoia is only going to aggravate your already precarious emotional condition. Try to relax. I don't think Kes has suffered any permanent neurological damage. I'll let you know the moment I've had any success in reviving her.
NEELIX: I'll be back as soon as you wake, dearest. And don't worry, you're in good hands. Thank you, Doctor.
EMH: What are you doing?
TUVOK: I am reconfiguring the sensor relays on the ship. This will only take a minute.
EMH: Must you do it now? I'm in the middle of a treatment.
TUVOK: I am sorry, Doctor. Captain's orders. How is she?
EMH: No irreparable damage. In fact, her injuries are quite different from Commander Chakotay's. Her bioneural energy is completely intact, and I'm curious about these contusions on her neck and shoulder. They're not consistent with an energy discharge. They look more like wounds sustained during a physical struggle.
TUVOK: Odd. There was no physical struggle that I can recall.
EMH: I just don't understand it. The only thing these injuries come close to resembling is an extreme trauma to the trapezius nerve bundle. It's as though her nerve fibers have been ruptured.

[Ready Room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
TUVOK: Lieutenant Torres and I will be ready to initiate the magneton scan in approximately two hours. You should be aware that it will be a high-intensity burst. It will cause dizziness and disorientation in all crew members, including myself, for several seconds.
JANEWAY: Make a ship-wide announcement before you initiate the scan.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. There is another matter of some concern. It appears that Kes's injuries were not caused by an energy discharge. The doctor has found evidence that she was physically assaulted.
JANEWAY: Assaulted? But you weren't physically assaulted.
TUVOK: That is correct.
JANEWAY: Is it possible that you inflicted her wounds?
TUVOK: Me?
JANEWAY: Maybe you were inhabited by the alien at that moment.
TUVOK: It is possible. Perhaps we should have the doctor run a neurological scan to see if I show a memory disruption.
JANEWAY: Agreed. Janeway to Sickbay. Computer, activate Emergency Medical Holographic System.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. The EMH program has been disabled.
JANEWAY: Disabled? By whom?
COMPUTER: Unknown.
JANEWAY: The Doctor's initialisation routine has been locked out. It's encrypted. I can't reactivate the program.
TUVOK: It appears the lockout originated somewhere above deck four.
JANEWAY: Why would someone deactivate the Doctor?
TUVOK: The Doctor does hold the command codes to Voyager.
JANEWAY: Yes, but once he was deactivated the codes automatically reverted back to me.
TUVOK: If we assume the alien could not take over the holographic doctor, then logically it would try to force the command codes back into a humanoid host.
JANEWAY: Me. It's too dangerous for one person to retain the command codes at this point. I suggest we divide my command protocols into two code groupings.
TUVOK: A sensible precaution.
JANEWAY: You would be the reasonable choice to hold the second grouping, if there's any such thing as a reasonable choice right now. The alien could occupy either one of us at any time.
TUVOK: But presumably not both of us at the same time.
JANEWAY: I'll tell the bridge crew the plan. We'll all have to act as checks and balances for each other.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I want you all to be aware of something that has happened, something I must assume was due to the alien. The Doctor has been deactivated, and we can't get him back online. I have decided to divide my command protocols.
TUVOK: Captain?
TUVOK: Stun her! She's the alien!

[Sickbay]
PARIS: That should do it, Captain.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Mister Paris. I feel better already. Any luck getting the Doctor back online?
KIM: Not yet. Whoever did this put up one hell of a roadblock. I'm going to have to break through at least six levels of encryption to access the holo-emitters.
JANEWAY: How long is it going to take?
KIM: Two, maybe three hours.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
TORRES (voiceover): Captain, can you come down to Engineering? There's something here I think you should see.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way. Mister Paris, you're our temporary medic until the Doctor returns.
PARIS: Right.
JANEWAY: Ensign, I need you on the Bridge.

[Engineering]
TORRES: I've been trying to reconstruct the damaged sensor logs from Tuvok and Chakotay's shuttlecraft. I didn't have any luck until I ran a parity trace scan. Captain, the sensor logs weren't destroyed by an energy discharge. Someone erased them, and then overloaded the sensor matrix to make it look like they'd been damaged. It gets worse. There was enough information left in the backup logs for me to reconstruct what happened during the attack. They were near a dark matter nebula and an energy discharge did breach the hull, but there was no other ship.
JANEWAY: No ship?
TORRES: I'm certain of it. From what I can tell, the energy discharge came from the nebula itself.
JANEWAY: Why would Tuvok lie about an attack?
TORRES: He must have been under the alien's influence.
KIM (voiceover): Bridge to Janeway. We're approaching the dark matter nebula.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. How long until the magneton flash scan is ready to go?
TORRES: The sensor arrays are charging now. Fifteen, maybe twenty minutes.
JANEWAY: When it's ready, transfer control of the scan to the Bridge. In the meantime, I think we should take a look at exactly what it is we're not supposed to see.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, can you locate the ion trail of the alien ship that attacked you?
TUVOK: I believe so. Mister Kim, lay in that course. Shields are at maximum, Captain. All preparations for entering the nebula are complete.
PARIS: Captain, I've finished the bioanalysis the doctor was running on Kes before he was deactivated. I think he was on to something. If I'm interpreting his data correctly, the bruises on Kes's neck and shoulders were the result of a Vulcan neck pinch.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant?
TUVOK: I have no memory of injuring Kes. Perhaps I was occupied by the alien at that time.
JANEWAY: Perhaps so, but then, why does it keep attacking you? In three separate instances now, it's assaulted you.
TUVOK: I am the Chief of Security. It may see me as a particular threat.
JANEWAY: So far, you've posed no greater threat than anyone else, and yet it keeps going after you.
TUVOK: Captain, I believe you are having a typically human response to circumstances which are frightening and inexplicable, commonly known as paranoia.
JANEWAY: Maybe, but I don't think it's paranoia that's keeping me from picking up this ion trail of yours. What bandwidth are you on?
TUVOK: I'm using a multiphasic scan. If you examine the alpha K band, you will see it.
JANEWAY: Yes, here it is. A very interesting ion trail. There's no sign of any subspace distortions in its wake. According to these readings, it's a ship without engines. You're lying, Tuvok. There is no alien ship, and there never was. We're not going inside that nebula until we get some answers. Mister Kim, reverse course and
TUVOK: Belay that order. That is exactly what the alien has been trying to do, keep us from entering the nebula. I suspect the captain has been occupied. I am relieving her of command. Ensign, proceed into the nebula, one half impulse.
JANEWAY: Don't do it, Harry.
TUVOK: Now, Ensign.
KIM: No sir, I won't do it.
TUVOK: I must inform you this phaser is on wide beam dispersal and set to kill. I am taking command of this Bridge. I must ask you all to stand together where I can see you. Step away from the console, Ensign.
DURST: Captain, we're entering the nebula.
KIM: Captain, I'm picking up some kind of energy pulses in the nebula, highly coherent, with a biomatrix.
JANEWAY: Life forms.
KIM: And they're heading this way.
JANEWAY: Those beings out there, are they your people?
TUVOK: We are the Komar. This is our domain.
JANEWAY: What's happening?
DURST: The warp core's been ejected.
TUVOK: No. No! We must continue.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to Bridge. Captain

[Engineering]
TORRES: I think I was just taken over by the alien. One second I was working the plasma relays and the next thing I knew, I was ejecting

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): The warp core.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged, Lieutenant. Stand by.
PARIS: I don't get it. If the alien's in Tuvok, how could it be down in Engineering at the same time?
KIM: I don't know. Unless there are two aliens.
PARIS: Two?
JANEWAY: Wait a minute. Lieutenant Torres isn't authorized to eject the warp core on her own. That requires a command code authorisation. Computer, who authorized the ejection of the warp core?
COMPUTER: The authorisation was entered by Commander Chakotay.
JANEWAY: Chakotay.
KIM: How is that possible?
JANEWAY: The alien in Tuvok wants us in that nebula, but there's another presence that's been trying to keep us out. It doesn't make sense, unless it's Chakotay and he knows we'll be in danger if we go in there.
KIM: But he's in Sickbay. He's brain dead.
JANEWAY: Maybe not. Maybe his neural energy was displaced somehow and he's able to move from person to person.
DURST: Tuvok's engaged emergency thrusters. We're moving again, Captain.
JANEWAY: You brought us here, for what? To extract our neural energy?
TUVOK: Very perceptive, Captain. The collective neural energy of your crew will sustain my people for years to come.
JANEWAY: You don't have to do this. Maybe we can help you find another source of energy.
KIM: Captain, we're under attack. We're being bombarded by the energy beings.
JANEWAY: The magneton scan identified the entity before it left the ship. It was a trianic-based energy being.
KIM: Looks like he's joined his friends outside.
PARIS: Shields are holding, but they won't last long at this rate, and the electromagnetic radiation is blinding our sensors. I can't find a way out.
JANEWAY: Come about. Maybe if we reverse course, we can just backtrack.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
KIM: I don't know if that'll work, Captain. Tuvok was navigating a complicated course. We could be going deeper into the nebula.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, maybe you can reconstruct Tuvok's navigational logs.
KIM: I'm on it, Captain.
DURST: Shields down to sixty five percent, Captain! The energy beings are starting to penetrate our defenses.
KIM: I'm not having any luck. Tuvok deleted the navigational logs as he went along. He wanted to make sure we didn't get out of here.
NEELIX (voiceover): Neelix to Bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
NEELIX (voiceover): Captain, I can't be sure but

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: I think I was just taken over by the alien.

[Bridge]
NEELIX (voiceover): And I've done something very strange. I've rearranged the stones on the medicine wheel.
JANEWAY: If it's Chakotay, maybe he's trying to tell us something. Mister Kim, activate Sickbay visual relay sixteen and put it on the view screen.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: What is it? What does it mean? Is it a code, a message?
PARIS: Or a map.
JANEWAY: Computer, overlay a star map of the nebula on the current viewscreen image.
PARIS: The stones are in the same position as those three planetoids. Chakotay must be using them to point a way out.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, lay in a course that takes us along a line connecting those three planetoids. Engage.
DURST: Shields failing. The aliens are penetrating the hull.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, report.
KIM: We're passing the third planetoid now, Captain. The dark matter density is thinning. Reading normal space ahead.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Torres. Transfer all remaining power to the thrusters, including life support.
KIM: We've cleared the nebula, Captain. Main power coming back online. Shields at full strength, hull integrity normal. The alien beings are not pursuing.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48735.9. We have returned to the co-ordinates where we ejected the warp core and have successfully retrieved it. Now we're hoping the Doctor will be able to successfully reintegrate Commander Chakotay's consciousness.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Did it work?
EMH: It appears so. Commander. Can you hear me?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. I'm a little dizzy, but I think I'm all here.
TORRES: How did you manage to reintegrate his consciousness?
EMH: It involved three neural transceivers, two cortical stimulators and fifty gigaquads of computer memory. I would be happy to take you through the process, but it would take at least ten hours to explain it all to you. Needless to say, it was a remarkable procedure. I would consider writing a paper about it if there were a convenient forum in which to publish it.
JANEWAY: What happened, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: After the attack on the shuttle, I had the sensation of floating above my own body. I thought I was dead.
JANEWAY: And when the shuttle returned to Voyager you were still disembodied?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. I couldn't speak, I couldn't touch anything. But then I found if I concentrated on someone who was in the room with me, I could share their consciousness. At first I could only do little things with the host's body. Push buttons, work a console. As time went on, it became easier to do more. I'm sorry I had to knock you around, Tuvok.
TUVOK: No apology is necessary.
JANEWAY: Good job, Commander, and welcome back.
CHAKOTAY: To be honest, I feel like I never left.

[Laboratory]
SULAN: Regeneration phase completed. Deactivate the genitron. Shut down the biomatrix. B'Elanna? B'Elanna Torres, wake up.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48784.2. We have completed our survey of the Avery system and are returning to retrieve Lieutenants Paris, Torres and Durst. By now, they should have concluded their inspection of the magnesite formations on the third planet.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Here we are Mister Tuvok, one bowl of authentic Vulcan plomeek soup.
TUVOK: As I have told you, Mister Neelix, this is an unnecessary indulgence. I am quite content to eat whatever the rest of the crew is eating.
NEELIX: Nonsense. Everyone aboard this ship deserves a little taste of home every now and then.
TUVOK: Very well then, thank you.
NEELIX: Don't thank me, I'm having a marvelous time experimenting with the native dishes of the entire crew. So far I've learned to make corn salad for Mister Chakotay, and peanut butter and jelly sandwiches for Mister Paris. He calls it comfort food. Isn't that charming? What are you waiting for, it's no good cold.
NEELIX: Well?
TUVOK: It is rather piquant.
NEELIX: It is zesty, isn't it. I tried following the recipe in the computer's databank but it seemed so bland, so I took the liberty of spicing it up a bit. Call it plomeek soup a la Neelix.
TUVOK: I must point out that if you take the liberty of changing a time-honored recipe you are hardly presenting a taste of home.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Senior officers please report to the bridge.
NEELIX: But your soup?
TUVOK: Please, enjoy it.
NEELIX: Ah, there's no place like home.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: The away team hasn't arrived at the pre-arranged coordinates, Captain, and they've failed to respond to our hails.
JANEWAY: Have you tried locking on to their comm. signals?
KIM: We scanned the entire surface. No sign of them. They must still be underground, but I can't locate them there either.
TUVOK: Then as we suspected, the dense magnesite formations in the planet's crust are blocking our sensors.
KIM: Take a look at this. This is the cave system nearest the beam-in coordinates as it appeared in our initial geological scan. And this is the same system now. This tunnel here has shifted to the west by almost seventy five degrees.
JANEWAY: Are you saying walls of solid rock have changed shape in the two days since the away team was deployed?
KIM: Apparently so, Captain, but our initial scans didn't indicate tectonic activity of anywhere near that magnitude.
CHAKOTAY: In any case, it's possible that Torres and the others haven't returned to the beam-out site because they were trapped by these geological shifts. I'd like to lead a team down to investigate, Captain.
TUVOK: And what is to prevent us from losing you as well, Commander?
KIM: Breadcrumbs.
JANEWAY: Ensign?
KIM: I'm sorry, Captain. What I mean to say is I think I can modify some subspace transponders which could be deployed along the Commander's path, kind of like
JANEWAY: Breadcrumbs. Got it.
KIM: If they're placed at regular intervals I believe they'll maintain a signal link with the ship and they could serve as a transporter relay in case we need to stage an emergency beam-out.
JANEWAY: Very well, Commander, take a team with you, but I want a transporter lock on you at all times.
CHAKOTAY: Aye Captain. Tuvok, Kim, you're with me.

[Laboratory]
SULAN: I apologize for the restraints, but your presence here is very important to us. Do you understand?
B'ELANNA: Who are you?
SULAN: I am Sulan, chief surgeon of the Vidiian Sodality.
B'ELANNA: I demand to know what is happening here.
B'ELANNA: You've surgically altered my face. I look like a Klingon.
SULAN: I've performed no surgery as you understand the term. There are several questions I need to ask you before we proceed.
B'ELANNA: You can't possibly believe I'm going to cooperate with you.
SULAN: Perhaps I was in error to leave your consciousness and memory intact.
B'ELANNA: Durst. Paris. What have you done with them?
SULAN: What is your exact age, Klingon.
B'ELANNA: If you want me to answer your question, you will have to answer one of mine first.
SULAN: Very well.
B'ELANNA: What exactly have you done to me.
SULAN: I have reconstituted your genome. You are now purely Klingon.
B'ELANNA: That's not possible.
SULAN: I assure you it is. I have developed a procedure to stimulate cell division. A kind of enhanced mitosis. Your Klingon genetic material was extracted. It was then converted from matter to energy by our genetron. Finally you were rematerialized as the purified Klingon specimen that you are now.
B'ELANNA: Why? Why have you done this?
SULAN: For generations my people have been searching the quadrant for a species immune to our disease in the hope that it would lead us to a cure.
B'ELANNA: And you think Klingons are immune to this phage?
SULAN: I believe your genetic structure has phage-resistant nucleotide sequences, yes. But I needed a pure specimen to be certain. My people do not know it yet, but you are their greatest hope.
B'ELANNA: I will never help you.
SULAN: You are very strong. I can only hope that you will be truly resistant to the phage.
B'ELANNA: And how will you know that?
SULAN: I have infected you.

[Barracks]
PARIS: They're the ones with the guns, remember?
DURST: We've got to find a way out of this place.
PARIS: Agreed. But I don't want to do anything until we find out what they've done with B'Elanna. In the meantime, we have to keep track of the guards movements. How long are their shifts, when do they eat, when do they sleep?
DURST: There don't seem to be many of them. I guess they figure we're all so exhausted we don't have any fight left.
PARIS: We'll find an opening, Pete, and when the time is right we'll make our move.
PARIS: Something funny, friend?
TALAXIAN: You.
PARIS: Really. How's that?
TALAXIAN: Nobody ever escapes from this place. Those Vidiian leeches can yank the beating heart out of you in a heartbeat. Heart out of you in a heartbeat. Now that's funny.
DURST: Hilarious.
PARIS: Seems like you know this place pretty well.
TALAXIAN: I should, I've been here six years.
PARIS: Then tell me something. I thought those Vidiians were in the business of harvesting organs. How come we're all still in one piece?
TALAXIAN: The disease makes them weak. They need somebody to dig their tunnels. That's us. Best way to keep alive around here is to stay strong.
PARIS: Thanks for the advice.
TALAXIAN: Don't worry, they're always in need of replacement body parts. They'll get around to gutting you eventually. There were twenty three of us from my ship. I'm the only one left.
PARIS: Listen. When they grabbed us there was a woman with us. B'Elanna Torres. Any idea what might have happened to her?
TALAXIAN: If she's not here, she's been taken to organ processing.

[Tunnels]
KIM: I've deployed the transponders, Commander. The relay signal is coming through clearly.
CHAKOTAY: Good work.
KIM: Any sign of them?
CHAKOTAY: According to my tricorder readings they definitely came this way. The question is, where did they go from here?
KIM: Delightful spot to get lost.
TUVOK: Commander, Ensign. Over here.
CHAKOTAY: What is it.
TUVOK: I detect traces of at least five humanoid lifeforms.
KIM: Five? There were only three in the away team.
TUVOK: Evidently they did not enter this cavern alone.

[Laboratory]
SULAN: Are you in pain?
B'ELANNA: It's nothing.
SULAN: Remarkable. One of the symptoms of the early stages of the phage is excruciating joint pain. I find it extraordinary that you can endure it. Some who have been infected have been known to die from the agony itself.
B'ELANNA: It's going to take more than an infection to kill me.
SULAN: It appears you are correct. Your body's successfully fighting off the phage. I am overjoyed.
B'ELANNA: How delightful for you.
SULAN: Soon we will begin a series of procedures replicating your genetic code and attempting various methods of integrating your DNA with our own. In time we'll be successful and eliminate the phage forever. When that time comes you will be honored as a hero by my people.
B'ELANNA: I know I'm the first Klingon you've ever seen, so I'll tell you that Klingons find honor as warriors on the battlefield, not as guinea pigs in a laboratory.
SULAN: Earlier you accused me of mutilating you. Now you sound positively proud to be Klingon. You have me to thank for that, B'Elanna.
B'ELANNA: You'll get no gratitude from me.
SULAN: Perhaps you'll feel different in time, but I don't blame you for your obstinacy. I would be proud too, with a form as handsome as yours. I believe Klingons are the most impressive species I have ever seen.

[Barracks]
TORRES: Tom? Tom, wake up.
PARIS: B'Elanna?
TORRES: Yeah, it's me.
PARIS: B'Elanna, what have they done to you?
TORRES: I remember them grabbing us outside the caves and then I, I guess I just blacked out.
PARIS: Yes, they stunned all of us.
TORRES: The next thing I knew, they were waking me up in some kind of laboratory. I was so groggy I couldn't see. I asked them what they had done to me and then one of them said that they had completely extracted my Klingon DNA.
PARIS: It doesn't seem possible, but you look human.
TORRES: I feel so weak, sick to my stomach.
PARIS: Considering what they've done to you, I'm not surprised.
TORRES: So strange.
PARIS: What?
TORRES: When I was a child, I did everything I could to hide my forehead. Hats, scarves, you name it.
PARIS: When I was a kid, I wore a cap to cover the haircuts my father used to make me get first day of every summer.
TORRES: I grew up on a colony on Kessik Four. My mother and I were the only Klingons there, and that was a time when relations between the Homeworld and the Federation weren't too cordial. Nobody ever said anything, but we were different and I didn't like that feeling. Then my father left when I was five years old. One day he was there and the next he wasn't. I cried myself to sleep every night for months. Of course I never told anybody. And then I finally decided that he'd left because I look like a Klingon. And so I tried to look human.
PARIS: Looks like you finally got what you wanted.

[Tunnels]
TUVOK: Strange.
CHAKOTAY: What is?
TUVOK: According to our last geological scan this cave should continue straight ahead for another eight kilometers.
KIM: This is solid granite, more than fifty meters.
CHAKOTAY: If these caves were changing configuration while we were here, we certainly would have felt it.
TUVOK: True, Commander, but I do not believe there has been any tectonic activity. I believe this wall is merely an illusion, a disguised force field.
CHAKOTAY: Away team to Voyager.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead Commander.
CHAKOTAY: We've run into some type of force field, Captain.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): One minute we were reading an empty tunnel, and the next we walked

[Tunnels]
CHAKOTAY: Right into a solid wall of rock.
TUVOK: Captain, the energy configuration of the force field matrix is virtually identical to those used by the Vidiians.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Ayala, scan for any alien vessels in the sector. Commander, we know from past experience that our phasers can disrupt that forcefield. I want to find out what's in there.

[Tunnels]
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): But I don't want you taking any unnecessary risks. We'll be

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Standing by to implement an emergency beam out.

[Tunnels]
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
CHAKOTAY: It's not working, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Try reconfiguring your phaser to match the band width modulation.
KIM: Commander!
CHAKOTAY: Three to beam up!

[Laboratory]
SULAN: B'Elanna? How are you feeling today?
B'ELANNA: I feel strong. It's very frustrating to be restrained like this.
SULAN: I sympathize.
B'ELANNA: I don't like being chained up like an animal.
SULAN: I'm sorry, I wish there was some
B'ELANNA: I've been thinking about what you said. It's because of you that I am Klingon and I do like this feeling. In a strange way I suppose I am grateful. Did you know that Klingon females are renowned in the Alpha Quadrant not only for their physical prowess but for their voracious sexual appetites as well? Why not let your creation out of her harness. Study her in action.
SULAN: I wish it were possible, B'Elanna, but I'm afraid I can't risk releasing you just yet.
SULAN: Forgive me.
B'ELANNA: For what?
SULAN: Please, don't condescend. I may have a grotesque appearance but I assure you my instincts are finely honed, and I do have feelings. Hard as it may be for you to imagine, B'Elanna, my people were once handsome and vigorous like yours, and with your help we will be again. Perhaps when that time comes I will not disgust you quite so much as I do now.

[Barracks]
PARIS: They're coming to take us to the work detail. You can't let them see how sick you are.
TORRES: Maybe if they think I'm too weak they'll leave me behind. I could try to get my hands on that console over there.
PARIS: Or maybe they'll skip the preliminaries and take you straight to organ processing.
GUARD: You. Come with me.
DURST: What for?
GUARD: You asked to contact your ship. The Prefect wishes to discuss your request.
PARIS: I'm the senior officer here. If your superiors want to talk with one of us, it should be me. He's not going anywhere without me.
TORRES: Tom, don't. They'll kill you.
GUARD: Stop!
DURST: It's okay, Tom. They're the ones with the guns, remember?
PARIS: What is it?

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Now that the Vidiians know we're here, we have to be prepared for the possibility they'll call in reinforcements.
KIM: So far long range sensors haven't located any alien vessels near here.
TUVOK: However, it is possible that the same technology that disguises their forcefields, cloaks their ships.
CHAKOTAY: The other thing we have to consider is that the prisoners may be at greater risk now.
KIM: Captain, take a look at this. Using our tricorder data I've been able to scan the entire planet for the forcefield signature, and it looks like the field surrounds an area more than six hundred kilometers in circumference.
JANEWAY: Is there any way to scan inside it?
KIM: Every reconfiguration I've tried has failed.
JANEWAY: If it's the same kind of forcefield that the Vidiians used the last time we ran into them, why didn't our phasers breach it?
TUVOK: Apparently it has been adapted to repulse phaser fire.
JANEWAY: If the Vidiians can move in and out of there, so can we. Start setting up simulations. Find a way to get through that forcefield.

[Laboratory]
SULAN: B'Elanna? I have something I want to show you.
B'ELANNA: Durst.
SULAN: I thought perhaps this new face would make you more comfortable with me.
B'ELANNA: You've killed him.
SULAN: Yes, B'Elanna, but his organs will save more than a dozen lives.

[Briefing room]
KIM: Deep level scans have revealed a network of microfissures, miniscule openings that develop each time the field matrix remodulates.
JANEWAY: Just how small are these microfissures?
KIM: Less than one micron. And they close up within a few seconds.
JANEWAY: Would it be possible to use our phasers to expand one of these openings as it's forming?
TUVOK: That was our first thought. But we realized such an attempt would have to be at close range and would carry the risk of alerting the Vidiians to our presence.
KIM: So then it occurred to us. If we could narrow the transporters energy beam tightly enough, it might be possible to transport one of us through the microfissures.
TUVOK: Of course, timing the transport to the precise moment of an opening would be critical.
CHAKOTAY: But if we could get someone inside, we might be able to find our people, and also deactivate the forcefield.
JANEWAY: And then, presumably, we could beam everyone back to the ship.
TUVOK: Precisely. But you should be aware that because we are incapable of scanning beyond the forcefield we will have no way of communicating with whoever transports inside it. Nor will we be able to verify that the transport has been successfully completed.
JANEWAY: Moreover, what's to prevent whoever goes in from being captured by the Vidiians.
CHAKOTAY: I have an idea about that, Captain.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Dermal stimulator, please.
KES: Remarkable work, Doctor.
EMH: If you think this is remarkable, you should see me remove a bunion.
TUVOK: I have done my best to replicate Vidiian attire. I trust it will prove sufficiently convincing.
CHAKOTAY: It's a fine piece of work, Mister Tuvok. Next time I need a tailor, I'll know just where to look.

[Tunnels]
GUARD: Quickly, now. In there!
PARIS: Here, B'Elanna. Sit down.
TALAXIAN: Here. It's water.
PARIS: Thanks.
TALAXIAN: Rest while you can. The guard won't be back right away. Keep it.
TORRES: Tom, I've been thinking. When they did this thing to me, I think it changed more than just the way I look.
PARIS: What do you mean?
TORRES: Back there, when they took Durst away, I was terrified.
PARIS: No one could blame you for that.
TORRES: You don't understand. I've been in worse situations but I've never felt like that before. Never. I mean, my heart was pounding and my hands were shaking. I didn't even try to help you.
PARIS: B'Elanna, I'm no doctor, but I have to believe that what ever they did to you has seriously depleted your strength. There's nothing you could have done.
TORRES: No, that's not it. I think that when they extracted my Klingon DNA, they turned me into some kind of a coward.
PARIS: Sometimes fear can be a good thing. Keeps you from taking unnecessary chances. Courage doesn't mean that you don't have fear. It means that you've learnt to overcome it. And I know that you can find the courage to hold on until we can find a way out of this place.
GUARD: What's going on here?
PARIS: She's ill. She needed a rest.
GUARD: If she's too weak, I'll take her back to the barracks.
TORRES: That's okay, Tom. Maybe if I'm there I can try to make contact with the ship.

[Transporter Room]
KIM: The emitter array has been initialized, Captain.
JANEWAY: Good. Are you ready, Mister Chakotay?
TUVOK: Captain. There's an opening forming in the forcefield.
KIM: Initiating auto sequence.
TUVOK: Targeting scanners to match coordinates. Scanners locked.
JANEWAY: On my mark, Mister Kim. Energize. Well, now we wait.

[Tunnels]
B'ELANNA: Make a sound and I'll break your neck, understand? I'm looking for my friend, Tom Paris, a human male. Have you seen him?
TALAXIAN: He was here, but they sent him to another tunnel.
TORRES: Which one?
TALAXIAN: Back that way. There was another human with him, but they took her back to the barracks.
TORRES: A human female?

[Barracks]
GUARD 2: I need your help here.
GUARD: What are you doing? Come with us.
TORRES: Where are you taking me?
GUARD 2: For a shower and a hot meal.
TORRES: No, please.

[Cave]
B'ELANNA: Wake up, petaQ! Eat!
TORRES: What is it?
B'ELANNA: Some rodent I killed.
TORRES: No, thanks.
B'ELANNA: I'm sorry I can't replicate you a soufflé but you need nourishment. I can't carry you all the way out of here.
TORRES: How are we supposed to escape this place? There are guards everywhere.
B'ELANNA: We fight our way out.
TORRES: Maybe you haven't noticed, but I'm not exactly in fighting form.
B'ELANNA: That's why you need food. Eat. So, you're what's left over when all the Klingon DNA is taken out.
TORRES: Apparently.
B'ELANNA: If I hadn't come along, were you just going to waste away in that prison camp until they killed you for your body parts? Were you too frightened to act?
TORRES: I was looking for a way to escape.
B'ELANNA: Looking! I'll show you the way to escape! This and this.
TORRES: That's the way you respond every situation, isn't it? If it doesn't work, hit it. If it's in your way, knock it down. No wonder I got kicked out of the Academy.
B'ELANNA: For which you should be eternally grateful.
TORRES: Well, I'm not! Your temper has gotten me into trouble more times that I can. Listen to me. Listen to us. This is ridiculous. Do you realize we're each fighting with our self.
B'ELANNA: I'm not the one who's fighting, petaQ. If I remember correctly, I'm the one who rescued you from that prison and carried you here. Don't you think you could at least acknowledge that? Can't you even admit that you won't be able to get out of here without me?
TORRES: I don't know that I can get out of here with you. Brute force isn't going to do it.
B'ELANNA: Maybe not. Maybe we'll die in the attempt. But that's better than sitting here like frightened tik'kah cats doing nothing.
TORRES: There you go again. Out of control. Just leaping into action before you think things through.
B'ELANNA: Fine. You stay here. I'm getting out.
TORRES: No, wait a minute, that's not what I meant. I'm sorry. Please. Just before you rescued me, I logged onto the Vidiian's computer system. I only had a few seconds, but I think I found a way to access the force field that's cloaking this place. With a few minutes more I could have deactivated it.
B'ELANNA: Then Voyager could get a lock on us, beam us back. Paris, too.
TORRES: It may not be as exciting as fighting our way out, but it stands a much better chance of working, if I have your help.
B'ELANNA: So. You need me.
TORRES: I can't get back to that computer without you. And you'll have to cover for me while I work.
B'ELANNA: We can't go to the prison barracks. There are too many guards there. In the lab where they were holding me, there was a security console. That's the last place they would expect us to be.

[Barracks]
TALAXIAN: They must have taken her to organ processing.
PARIS: Tell me how to get there.
PARIS: Keep your hands off me!
CHAKOTAY: Whatever you say, Paris, but I thought you might like to get out of this place.
PARIS: Chakotay?
CHAKOTAY: Where are Torres and Durst?
PARIS: I think they've been taken to what the Vidiians call organ processing.
GUARD: You! Why are you talking to that prisoner.
CHAKOTAY: I was ordered to take him to organ processing.
GUARD: Why wasn't I notified?
CHAKOTAY: I was told you had been.
GUARD: I've never seen you before.
CHAKOTAY: My face was just grafted.
GUARD: Very well, take him. But from now on I expect to be notified in advance of all transfers.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, sir.

[Laboratory]
B'ELANNA: There.
TORRES: I have to bypass the security code so I can access the force field grid. Then I'll have a better idea of what we're dealing with. That should do it. There! That's what we're up against, and I think we're here.
B'ELANNA: Can you shut it down?
TORRES: I'm working on it.
B'ELANNA: What now?
TORRES: If they didn't know we were here before, they do now. Take it easy. I'll be done in a minute.
B'ELANNA: You're not frightened any more, are you?
TORRES: Maybe I just don't have time to think about it.
TORRES: Are you hurt?
B'ELANNA: Keep working.
SULAN: B'Elanna, stop.
B'ELANNA: You're not going to hurt me. You need me.
SULAN: You're right. But if you do not surrender, I will kill her.
CHAKOTAY: Drop it!
SULAN: Who are you?
B'ELANNA: That's what I want to know.
CHAKOTAY: It's Chakotay!
TORRES: I think I've just about accessed the forcefield.
B'ELANNA: Hurry!
TORRES: Got it! There!

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, the forcefield has been disrupted.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, can you get a lock on Commander Chakotay?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Voyager, do you read?
JANEWAY: Loud and clear, Commander.

[Laboratory]
CHAKOTAY: I've found them, Captain.
B'ELANNA: No!
SULAN: No!
CHAKOTAY: Three humans and one Klingon to beam up.

[Transporter room]
PARIS: She's badly wounded, Captain.
TORRES: Beam her to Sickbay!
B'ELANNA: Don't. No time. You showed true courage. It makes my death an honorable one.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Using tissue from your counterpart, I can replicate the Klingon DNA, then over the course of several days, I'll reintegrate that genetic material into your cellular structure.
TORRES: Wait a minute. You're not saying that you're going to change me back?
EMH: That's precisely what I'm saying. Your cell's ability to synthesis proteins has been severely compromised. You need the Klingon genes to survive.
TORRES: So she's saving my life again.
EMH: I'll get started on the DNA.
CHAKOTAY: How are you doing?
TORRES: I'm not sure. It's been a pretty strange experience. I do know that right now, the way I am, I'm more at peace with myself than I've ever been before. And that's a good feeling.
CHAKOTAY: But?
TORRES: I'm incomplete. It doesn't feel like me. I guess I've had someone else living inside of me for too long to feel right without her.
CHAKOTAY: I'd have to say that you two made quite a team down there.
TORRES: I know. I came to admire a lot of things about her. Her strength, her bravery. I guess I just have to accept the fact that I'll spend the rest of my life fighting with her.

[Sandrine's]
NEELIX: He hasn't left me with a single shot.
GAUNT GARY: In that case, pal, call a safety.
NEELIX: Safety?
PARIS: it's a defensive strategy. Since you can't make a shot, the idea is to leave the cue ball somewhere on the table where Tuvok can't make a shot either.
NEELIX: Oh, I don't know. It sounds cowardly.
GAUNT GARY: Suit yourself pal, but if you leave Vulcan Slim over here with an open shot he's got a very good chance of running the table.
NEELIX: All right. Safety.
NEELIX: Ah ha ha! Mister Vulcan, let's see you reason your way out of this conundrum. This safety business is a lot more satisfying than I imagined. I've left him with an impossible shot.
TUVOK: The shot may be difficult, Mister Neelix, but to say that it is impossible is an exaggeration.
NEELIX: Go ahead then. Call your shot.
TUVOK: Logic would dictate that if I strike the cue ball properly, it will deflect first off the rear bumper, then the side, striking the eleven ball and causing it to roll directly into the corner pocket.
PARIS: This I have to see.
TUVOK: Perhaps the ship's stabilizers are not operating at peak efficiency.
GAUNT GARY: Yeah, and maybe Tom Terrific over here forgot to tell you that Sandrine's table rolls a little to the east.
NEELIX: You should have called a safety.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Mister Neelix. Please report to the bridge.

[Bridge]
NEELIX: You wanted to see me, Captain.
JANEWAY: Yes, Neelix. We've received a subspace message from an approaching vessel. They're asking for you.
NEELIX: Me?
KIM: The alien ship is entering visual range, Captain.
JANEWAY: Slow to impulse. On screen. Do you recognize it?
NEELIX: That's a Haarkonian shuttle.
CHAKOTAY: Haarkonian?
NEELIX: My people were at war with them for the better part of a decade. They conquered my homeworld more than fifteen years ago.
CHAKOTAY: Any idea what the Haarkonians want with you now?
NEELIX: None at all.
KIM: The shuttle is hailing us, Captain.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
KIM: Channel open.
JANEWAY: I'm Captain Katherine Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. What can we do for you.
JETREL (screen): As I stated in my message, Captain, I understand you have a Talaxian called Neelix aboard your vessel.
NEELIX: I'm Neelix. What do you want?
JETREL (screen): It is a matter of utmost urgency. However, I would prefer to speak with you privately. Your life may very well depend on it.
NEELIX: Who are you?
JETREL (screen): Forgive me. I am Jetrel. Doctor Ma'bor Jetrel.
JANEWAY: Neelix.

[Ready room]
NEELIX: He's a mass murderer! When I was much younger my family and I lived on a moon called Rinax, a colony with the most temperate climate in the entire Talaxian system. Warm days, balmy nights. Until the Meteron Cascade. A melodic name, isn't it? Especially for a weapon of mass destruction.
JANEWAY: And Jetrel was somehow involved with this weapon?
NEELIX: Doctor Jetrel was the scientist who conceived the Meteron Cascade, then he led the team of scientists who built it.
JANEWAY: I see.
NEELIX: In the blink of an eye Rinax was enveloped by a deadly cloud, and those lovely days were turned into one endless frigid night. More than three hundred thousand were killed.
JANEWAY: But you survived.
NEELIX: I had the good fortune to be on Talax at the time with our defense forces, preparing for an invasion that never came. It wasn't necessary. The day after the Cascade was deployed, Talax surrendered unconditionally to the Haarkonian Order.
JANEWAY: And your family?
JANEWAY: I am so sorry.

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: Doctor Jetrel. Lieutenant Tuvok, my chief of security.
JETREL: I have heard of your transporter technology, Captain, but, to experience it first hand is truly remarkable.
JANEWAY: Mister Neelix has declined to meet with you.
JETREL: That's not surprising. I'm afraid I am not a very popular figure among the Talaxian people.
TUVOK: May we show you to your quarters?

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Mister Neelix has given me permission to speak on his behalf. You indicated that he may be in some kind of danger?
JETREL: Yes. It's imperative that he undergo a compete medical examination.
JANEWAY: For what purpose?
JETREL: Our war records show that he was part of the team that returned to Rinax after the Cascade in order to evacuate survivors. He was exposed to high concentrations of Meteron isotopes. In recent years several of the rescuers have developed a degenerative blood disease called metermia.
JANEWAY: Is it serious?
JETREL: I am afraid that it's fatal. The disease attacks its victims on a molecular level. It may lay dormant for years, but once it manifests itself, it will cause the body's atomic structure to undergo fission. The cells will begin to disintegrate. My equipment is specifically designed to detect the sub-atomic signature of the disorder.
TUVOK: May I ask, Doctor, why you've taken it upon yourself to examine Mister Neelix?
JETREL: I've evaluated as many members of the team as possible, collecting data, in hopes that one day my research may lead to a cure for metermia. Please, try to persuade Mister Neelix to see me. Each Talaxian I screen brings me one step closer to a cure.

[Mess hall kitchen]
KES: Neelix, why didn't you ever tell me about the war?
NEELIX: Maybe this is one experience that can't be shared. It's too hard to describe how I feel to someone who didn't see what I saw. I'm sorry.
KES: You've nothing to be sorry about, Neelix.
JANEWAY: Excuse me.
NEELIX: Captain! Back from your doctor's appointment already?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I have some disturbing news, Neelix.
NEELIX: Nothing you tell me can make this day more disturbing than it's already been.
JANEWAY: According to Jetrel, you were exposed to dangerous levels of Meteron poisoning, and may be at risk of developing a fatal blood disorder. He wants to screen you for the disease.
NEELIX: Er, Captain, please tell Doctor Jetrel that I am touched by his tender concern for my state of health, but that I'd rather be immersed in a pit of Kraylinnian eels than examined by him.
KES: Neelix, if there's something wrong with you we should find out.
NEELIX: I don't want that man within ten parsecs of me!
JANEWAY: I understand your feelings, but this is your life we're talking about.
NEELIX: Don't either of you find it the slightest bit strange that a man who has made it his life's work to develop a weapon to destroy as many Talaxians as possible should suddenly be concerned with this Talaxian's health.
JANEWAY: I don't know what his motives are. Maybe he's trying to undo some of the damage his weapon caused? But he seems sincere, Neelix, and at this point I have no reason to doubt him.
NEELIX: If the disease is fatal, what's the point of knowing whether I have it or not?
KES: Our doctor is the most skilled physician either of us has ever met. If you have this disease he won't stop until he's found some way to treat it.
JANEWAY: And if Jetrel discovers you don't have the disease, at least you'll have peace of mind.
NEELIX: Peace of mind is a relative thing, Captain.
JANEWAY: I simply want you to hear what he has to say. Then, if you still don't want him to examine you, no one will force you.
NEELIX: Outnumbered and outflanked. All right then, I surrender.

[Briefing room]
JETREL: The Meteron isotopes are unique. The rate of decay is highly variable. We have found that it's sometimes years before Metermia sets in, and unfortunately
NEELIX: Why are you doing this?
JETREL: I beg your pardon?
NEELIX: Is it all just scientific curiosity, Meterons and isotopes. Or do you feel guilty about what you did.
JETREL: Guilty? I do not regret it. I did what had to be done.
NEELIX: Really? It was necessary to vaporize more than a quarter of a million people and to leave thousands of others to be eaten away by Meteron poisoning.
JETREL: Would it make any difference if I told you we never thought there would be any radiation poisoning. That anyone close enough to be exposed would be killed by the initial blast. It was unfortunate we were wrong.
NEELIX: Unfortunate? Did you hear that, Captain? It was unfortunate.
JANEWAY: Neelix, I think what Doctor Jetrel is trying
JETREL: No, Captain, that's all right. I'm used to it. I'm simply a scientist. Yes, I developed the weapon, but it was the government and the military leaders who decided to use it, not I.
NEELIX: That must be a very convenient distinction for you. Does it help you sleep at night?
JETREL: I slept no worse last night than I have any other night for the past fifteen years.
NEELIX: What is that supposed to mean?
JETREL: It means I must live with my conscience, as you who must live with yours. How many did you kill during the war?
JANEWAY: Gentlemen, please. This is obviously very difficult for both of you but we are not here to debate history. We are here to talk about Neelix's condition.
NEELIX: Don't worry about it, Captain, because Doctor Jetrel will have to find himself another laboratory rodent to help his experiments. Because I would rather die than help you ease your conscience.
JETREL: I do not expect you to like me, Mister Neelix, nor do I hope to allay your obvious pain with moral arguments, but I do believe I can help you. If not you, then others of your race. Isn't that more important than punishing me?

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: Are you sure you can't do this?
EMH: You're new found confidence in me is flattering, Mister Neelix, but Doctor Jetrel has instruments designed specifically to analyze Talaxian physiology.
NEELIX: Just get it over with.
NEELIX: Did I ever tell you about the notorious two-tailed talchoks of Rinax?
KES: I don't think so.
NEELIX: Nasty little vermin. Sharp claws, dripping fangs. Ugh. It was quite a nuisance. So one summer when I was a boy, I decided to do something about them. I spent weeks tinkering, creating a fool-proof talchok trap. Once I'd perfected it I set it in the garden. And the next day I found one of those beasts pinned at the neck. But it wasn't dead, it was squirming, squealing in agony. And suddenly it didn't look so fiendish any more. It looked like a poor innocent animal.
KES: What a horrible story.
NEELIX: You see, I had become so fascinated with my invention that I never really thought about how that poor creature would suffer.
JETREL: Are you finished?
NEELIX: For now.
JETREL: So am I.
NEELIX: And?
JETREL: I'm sorry, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Sorry? Why are you sorry?
JETREL: I'm afraid you have incipient metermia.

[Neelix's quarters]
NEELIX: Come in.
KES: How are you feeling?
NEELIX: Kes, my sweet, I'll have you know this is not the first time I have gazed into the gaping maw of death. Why once, during the battle of the Pyrithian Gorge I faced down an entire battery of Haarkonian artillery. There I was, with only a small crevice for cover
KES: Neelix, you're protecting me again. I can understand your not wanting to talk about Rinax. I wasn't there, you're right. But I'm here now with you. We have to face this together.
NEELIX: Well, there's one good thing that will come from all this. When I first met you I didn't know that your species lived only eight or nine years. I fell in love with you without knowing how lonely it would be to live without you after you're gone. Now that I'm going to die first, I don't have to worry about it.
KES: Before I met you, eight or nine years seemed like an eternity. It never occurred to me that anyone could live longer. Now that we're together, no matter how many years we have left, it doesn't seem like enough. But the important thing is to cherish whatever time we have together, whether it's a day or a decade.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
JETREL: Am I interrupting?
JANEWAY: Please, sit down.
JETREL: Captain, I must tell you, your ship is simply astounding. I have been studying your transporter systems.
JANEWAY: Transporter systems. I would think you would be more concerned with Mister Neelix.
JETREL: Forgive me, but that is what I am here to talk about. I believe, with a relatively few minor modifications, the transporter system could be used to retrieve a sample of the Meteron cloud surrounding Rinax.
JANEWAY: To what end?
JETREL: I've always believed that if I could isolate the free isotope that causes metermia, it could be used to synthesis an antibody.
JANEWAY: Then theoretically, a victim's own immune system could destroy the disease.
JETREL: Yes, Captain, and your transporter system makes it all possible.
JANEWAY: Is the isotope stable enough to be transported?
JETREL: I believe so.
JANEWAY: We could construct a containment field to prevent any contamination of the ship, and I could have our Doctor assist you with synthesizing the antibody.
JETREL: My thoughts exactly.
JANEWAY: Janeway to bridge.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay here, Captain.
JANEWAY: Have Doctor Jetrel's shuttle tractored into the shuttlebay and lay in a course for the Talaxian system.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: That's a significant detour, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): I'm aware of that, Commander.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: But it may mean saving Neelix's life.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Understood.
JANEWAY: I'll send a message to Talax requesting permission to transport material from the cloud. In the meantime, Lieutenant Torres in Engineering can give you a hand with the transporter modifications.
JETREL: Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Doctor Jetrel. It's a very promising idea.
JANEWAY: What is it?
JETREL: Nothing, I just think I'm a little over excited about the prospects of discovering a cure, and all that sparring with Mister Neelix does take a toll.
JANEWAY: Maybe you should let the Doctor have a look at you.
JETREL: No, I'm fine, and there's so much to be done. I want to start right away.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48832.1. Kes has prevailed upon Neelix to allow Doctor Jetrel to continue metabolic scans in the hope that it will facilitate treatment once the antibody has been synthesized.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Will you be needing my assistance, Doctor?
JETREL: Not until we have the isotope.
EMH: Mister Neelix, is there anything more I can do for you? Very well, then. Computer override command one EMH alpha and end program.
JETREL: Incredible. A hologram that can deactivate itself.
NEELIX: Is there anything besides science that makes your heart beat faster, Jetrel?
JETREL: Not any more. Now, would you please sit down?
NEELIX: You know what I've been thinking? If I'd been in charge of the Cascade I'd have, I don't know, chosen a military target, simply deployed it on an uninhabited planet. Somehow I don't think I'd have targeted innocent civilians.
JETREL: The military strategists did not think a demonstration would work. They wanted to show the power of the Cascade in all it's horror.
NEELIX: You should have tried to stop them! Why didn't you speak out? People would have listened to you.
JETREL: It would not have made any difference. If I had not discovered the Cascade, it would have been someone else, don't you see? It was a scientific inevitability, one discovery flowing naturally to the next. Something so enormous as science will not stop for something as small as man, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: So you did it for science.
JETREL: For my planet, and yes, for science. To know whether or not it could be done. It's good to know how the world works. It is not possible to be a scientist unless you believe that all the knowledge of the universe and all the power that it bestows is of intrinsic value to everyone, and one must share that knowledge and allow it to be applied, and then be willing to live with the consequences.
NEELIX: Consequences? Who are you to talk about consequences.
JETREL: You are not the only one to loose family during the war, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Your family was killed?
JETREL: Nothing as clean as death. When I returned home after the Cascade to my wife, my lovely wife Ka'Ree, she could not bear to look at me. When I would reach out to her she would pull away, as if I had some contagious disease. You see, like you, she thought I had become a monster, and shortly after that she took my three children and I have not seen them since.
NEELIX: That's a sad story, Jetrel, but let me tell you another one. A man goes back to Rinax after the Cascade. Back to what had been his home, to look for survivors. But the impact of the blast has set off hundreds of fires, and there's nothing there. Just smoldering ruins and the stench of seared flesh. But in the distance, in the middle of all that emptiness, from out of this huge cloud of billowing dust, he can see bodies moving, whimpering, coming toward him. They're monsters, their flesh horribly charred, the color of shale. One of them comes toward him, mangled arms outstretched, and he can't help it, he turns away frightened. But then the thing speaks and he knows by the sound of her voice that she's not a monster at all, but a child. A little girl.
JETREL: Mister Neelix, I
NEELIX: Her name was Palaxia. We brought her back to Talax with the other survivors. Over the next few weeks I stayed at her bedside and watched her wither away. Those are consequences, Doctor Jetrel.
JETREL: There is no way I can ever apologize to you, Mister Neelix. That's why I have not tried.
NEELIX: Did you ever think that maybe your wife was right. That you have become a monster?
JETREL: Yes. The day when we tested the Cascade, when I saw that blinding light, brighter than a thousand suns. I knew at that moment exactly what I had become.
NEELIX: I hope you have to live with that a very long time.
JETREL: I'm afraid you will not get your wish, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: And why is that?
JETREL: I have advanced metermia. I will be dead in a matter of days.

[Sandrine's]
FIGURE: It's your turn.
NEELIX: There's no open shot.
FIGURE: Why don't you call a safety, Neelix? Isn't that what you always do?
NEELIX: I'm no coward.
FIGURE: That's not what I've heard.
NEELIX: What are you doing, it's my turn!
FIGURE: You've lost your chance to play. Now you're going to lose!
JANEWAY: Neelix, where did you go? Why did you leave us?
NEELIX: I did what I thought was right.
PARIS: You were afraid.
NEELIX: No! I
KES: Neelix.
NEELIX: Who are you?
KES: It's me, Palaxia.
NEELIX: Palaxia!
KES: Why weren't you here to help us?
NEELIX: You! You did this, butcher!

[Neelix's quarters]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Bridge to Neelix.
NEELIX: Here, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Neelix, I thought you'd like to know, we're approaching Rinax.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Neelix?

[Neelix' quarters]
NEELIX: Thank you, Captain. I'll be right there.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Entering synchronous orbit, Captain.
NEELIX: Hard to believe that on clear nights you could look up from Talax and see the shimmering lights of the colony. The night of the Cascade, a bright flash cut across the sky. It was so blinding that people threw themselves to the ground. Then everything stopped, like a moment out of time. Then we all looked up to see where the flash had come from, but the sky seemed oddly empty. Took most of us a few seconds to realize it was because Rinax was gone. Of course, the moon was still there. We just couldn't see it because of that Meteron cloud.
TORRES (voiceover): Engineering to Bridge. We're ready to begin transporter pre-sequencing, Captain.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged.
NEELIX: This brings back too many memories, Captain. If you'll excuse me.
JANEWAY: Of course.

[Engineering]
JETREL: I believe I asked for a larger container.
TORRES: Correct me if I'm wrong, Doctor, but we're talking about a cloud sample large enough to contain a few subatomic particles, right?
JETREL: Yes. But the isotope accounts for just a miniscule fraction of the cloud's total mass. I want to be sure we get enough.
TORRES: Don't worry. We do this all the time. Pre-sequencing complete, Captain. I'm ready to begin transport.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Proceed.
TORRES: Targeting scanners. Locking on. Energize.
TORRES: Captain, we have the sample aboard. The containment field is holding.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Well done, Janeway out.
TORRES: Good luck, Doctor.

[Mess hall]
KES: Neelix? Neelix, are you in here? Neelix?
KES: I've been looking for you everywhere. Why did you take your comm. badge off?
NEELIX: I wanted to be alone.
KES: I'm sorry to bother you, but I was worried. I know how you must feel.
NEELIX: No, you don't know! Not everything. You don't know where I was the night Rinax was destroyed.
KES: On Talax, fighting with the defense forces.
NEELIX: I was on Talax, but I wasn't fighting with the defense forces. I was hiding from them. I wasn't a hero at the battle of the Pyrithian Gorge. I've never even been there.
KES: I don't understand.
NEELIX: I never reported for duty.
KES: Why not?
NEELIX: I thought the war was unjust, that Talax was fighting for reasons that weren't worth killing for. Or at least, that's what I told myself. But the real reason I didn't report was because I was a coward. Now you know.
KES: If the Talaxian authorities would have caught you, what would they have done?
NEELIX: During war time, the punishment for refusing military service was death.
KES: So, you put your life at risk for something you believed in, and you think that makes you a coward? I don't understand.
NEELIX: It makes me a liar! I've lied about it all these years, to you, to Jetrel, to everyone.
KES: Because you're dishonest.
NEELIX: Because I'm ashamed.
KES: What an awful burden you've carried all these years. No wonder you're so angry with Jetrel.
NEELIX: Of course I am. He killed them all. My mother, my father, my little brothers.
KES: Is that really why? Every since Jetrel came on board you've despised him. The hurt and anger you've held in all these years was vented right at him. But was it really Jetrel you're angry with? Is he the one you blame for what happened?
NEELIX: I don't know.
KES: Or was he just a convenient target to keep you from looking somewhere else.
NEELIX: You mean from looking at myself? You may be right, but I hate him. And I don't think I can stop hating him.
KES: Maybe you have to stop hating yourself first.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Are we ready to begin synthesis?
JETREL: Computer, override command one EMH alpha and end program.
EMH: Now just wait one
NEELIX: Doctor Jetrel.
JETREL: You startled me!
NEELIX: I'm sorry, but I need to speak with you.
JETREL: Is it possible we could talk later? It won't be long before I am too weak to work. I would like to finish before I die.
NEELIX: What is that? You're engaging in some kind of bizarre experiment, aren't you? What is it this time?
JETREL: You don't understand. I can help them.
NEELIX: What do you call that? Scientific progress? I'm going to the Captain!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Any report on Doctor Jetrel's progress, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet, Captain.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Sickbay. Janeway to Doctor Jetrel.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Computer, activate Emergency Medical Hologram.
EMH (voiceover): Please state the nature of
JANEWAY: What the hell is going on down there, Doctor?

[Sickbay]
EMH: Doctor Jetrel deactivated me.

[Bridge]
EMH (voiceover): He's gone now.
TUVOK: Computer, locate Doctor Jetrel.
COMPUTER: Doctor Jetrel is in Transporter room one.

[Sickbay]
EMH: And Mister Neelix is unconscious. It appears he's been tranquilized.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: You have the Bridge, Commander. Security, meet me in Transporter room one. Tuvok.

[Transporter room one]
TUVOK: Please step aside, Doctor.
JETREL: You must let me continue. Lives depend on it.
JANEWAY: We've heard that from you before. You're beginning to loose credibility.
JETREL: Captain, I beg you, let me bring them back.
NEELIX: Bring who back? Who, Doctor? Who is it you're going to bring back?
JETREL: The victims of Rinax.
NEELIX: He's out of his mind, Captain.
JETREL: Please, look at my calculations. You remember what I told you about metermia, Captain, how it causes the bodies atomic structure to undergo fission. It mirrors the way the Meteron Cascade vaporized its victims through bio-molecular disintegration.
NEELIX: Do we have to listen to this?
JANEWAY: I think we should hear him out.
JETREL: What I've been working on for the past fifteen years is a way to rebuilt that atomic structure. What I call regenerative fusion.
JANEWAY: Are you saying you're actually trying to restore people who were vaporized by the Meteron cascade?
JETREL: Yes!
JANEWAY: Given the degree of fragmentation you're talking about, I don't see how that's possible.
JETREL: The electrostatic properties of the cloud are such that the disassembled biomatter has been held in a state of animated suspension. I discovered years ago that re-integration is possible.
NEELIX: Is that what you were doing with that thing in Sickbay?
JETREL: Yes, exactly! Neelix saw it. It was an amalgamation of randomly fused organic material. Bits and pieces of previously vaporized biomatter.
NEELIX: But, but, if the biomatter in the cloud is so random, so jumbled, how could you reconstruct something whole?
JETREL: I used medical records to identify the genetic coding of a specific victim, a test case if you will. Once we input his DNA sequence, then we can isolate his atomic fragments with your targeting scanners, and then rematerialize him.
NEELIX: What if he's right?
TUVOK: Captain, Doctor Jetrel is proposing the reconstruction and re-animation of a remarkable complex set of biosystems from billions of subatomic particles.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I have to agree. It all sounds very implausible.
JETREL: You sound exactly like my country. I asked them for more funds to continue my research to help the victims of Rinax, because I wanted the world to know I'm not a monster. My theories can be used to heal, as well as to destroy. But they refused me, called me a Talaxian sympathizer, and exiled me.
JANEWAY: Does Neelix really have metermia, or was that just a pretext for getting us to come to Rinax.
JETREL: It was just a pretext, Captain. You do not have metermia, Neelix. You are not going to die.
NEELIX: Why didn't you just tell us the truth in the first place?
JETREL: Your Captain is an accomplished scientist. She doubts my theories. My own government did too. I just could not risk being not believed again. But, Captain, it will work.
NEELIX: Captain, if there's any chance he can do it, you've got to let him try.
JANEWAY: Neelix, there are just too many variables.
NEELIX: Please, Captain.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Tuvok, activate the emergency containment field around the transporter pad.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. Emergency containment field activated.
JANEWAY: We'll have to re-target scanners to the widest possible confinement beam. It's our only hope of achieving bond cohesion with such broadly scattered fragments.
TUVOK: Re-targeting scanners to wide beam.
JANEWAY: Energize. Phase transition coils to maximum.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Is the biogenic field operational?
TUVOK: Affirmative.
NEELIX: It's incredible.
TUVOK: Atomic cohesion has dropped to forty nine percent, Captain.
JANEWAY: Pattern buffers to maximum power.
TUVOK: They are already at one hundred percent.
JANEWAY: Take them to one twenty, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: Pattern buffers to one hundred and twenty percent of rated maximum.
JANEWAY: We're losing him.
TUVOK: Atomic cohesion to thirty nine percent. Twenty two percent. Fourteen percent. His pattern is degrading rapidly.
JETREL: You must increase the power to the pattern buffers, Captain.
JANEWAY: We've got to stimulate cohesion. Is there anyway to augment the biogenic field?
TUVOK: The degree of fragmentation is simply too great. It will not work. We are overloading the system.
JANEWAY: Shut it down, Mister Tuvok.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48840.5. Doctor Jetrel's metermia is now in it's final stage. He's spending his remaining hours in Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
JETREL: Neelix. I suppose you think this is a fitting punishment for me.
NEELIX: Maybe the Cascade was a punishment for all of us, for our hatred, our brutality. There's something I need to tell you. I tried to tell you before, but
JETREL: What is it?
NEELIX: I want to tell you that I forgive you.

[Holodeck - Janeway's Gothic novel]
JANEWAY: Good morning children. I'm your new governess, Mrs Davenport. Too formal. Henry, Beatrice, I'm so glad to meet you. I've heard so much about you, and I'm sure we're going to be very good friends. Oh, too familiar. Hello, I'm Mrs Davenport. Your father has asked me here to be your new governess.
HENRY: Something he did without mentioning in to us.
JANEWAY: Good morning, children. It's good to see you. You must be Henry. And this is Beatrice.
HENRY: Henry Burleigh, Viscount Timmons. My sister, the Lady Beatrice Flora. You will address us as my Lord and my Lady.
JANEWAY: Of course, my Lord. Please, sit down. Let's get to know one another, shall we? I'm Mrs Davenport. I hope to be a friend to you as well as a governess.
HENRY: In ullam rem ne properemus.
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon?
HENRY: In ullam rem ne properemus. Is your Latin a bit rusty?
JANEWAY: I suppose it is.
HENRY: Then I don't see how you'll be doing my lessons with me.
JANEWAY: My Lord, I assure you that I am more than qualified to instruct you. I may have to brush up on my Latin, but when it comes to mathematics and the sciences, I'm sure you'll find my lessons challenging. And Beatrice, what do you like to study?
BEATRICE: Nothing.
JANEWAY: Not even painting or needlework?
BEATRICE: I just made my first sampler. I finished it yesterday.
JANEWAY: Did you? Oh, I'd love to see it sometime.
BEATRICE: I don't have it anymore. I gave it to Mother.
HENRY: Beatrice! My sister is confused. She gave the sampler to Mother before she died.
BEATRICE: No, I didn't. I gave it to her last night.
HENRY: Beatrice!
BEATRICE: I talked to her!
HENRY: Beatrice is upset, Mrs Davenport. She hasn't yet accepted our mother's death.
JANEWAY: Beatrice, I know it was a terrible thing to lose your mother.
BEATRICE: She's not dead! I saw her last night!
HENRY: What have you done to my sister?
JANEWAY: Computer, restore characters in program Janeway lambda one.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. There has been a disruption of power to energy grid beta four.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Bridge. Report.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We're experiencing

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Power fluctuations on deck six, Captain. Mister Tuvok is investigating.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Keep me informed. Janeway out.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: Tuvok to Lieutenant Torres. Has any equipment repair been authorized on Deck six?
TORRES (voiceover): Negative. What's going on?
TUVOK: Stand by.
DALBY: Be careful! Sorry. You might have broken the connection.
TUVOK: Crewman Dalby, what are you doing here?
DALBY: One of the bio-neural gel packs was malfunctioning. I had to replace it.
TUVOK: Did you inform Lieutenant Torres?
DALBY: Not yet. I was just going to take this to Engineering for analysis.
TUVOK: On this ship we have a protocol for such procedures.
DALBY: I was in the area, I saw a malfunctioning gel pack and I fixed it. What's the problem?
TUVOK: Your repair interrupted a number of ships functions. That is the problem.
DALBY: I guess I'm used to doing things a little differently. On our ship, when something went wrong, you fixed it.
TUVOK: I would remind you, Mister Dalby, that you are no longer on a Maquis ship.
DALBY: I'm well aware of that, Lieutenant. And every minute of every day I regret it. I was just trying to do my job, trying to help out. If that goes against Starfleet's almighty rules then put me in the brig. Otherwise, leave me alone.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48846.5. Ordinarily the loss of a gel pack would be a minor inconvenience, but here in the Delta Quadrant it's a reminder of the precarious nature of our journey.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: I don't understand. The gel packs have an extremely reliable track record. It's almost impossible to damage them. Why did this one malfunction?
TUVOK: Unknown. Lieutenant Torres is running a materials analysis on the gel pack. In the mean time the unit has been replaced.
JANEWAY: How many do we have left in reserve?
TUVOK: Forty seven.
JANEWAY: Those gel packs run half the critical systems on this ship. Once they run out, that's it. We can't replicate new ones.
CHAKOTAY: It might be possible to switch over some systems to conventional isolinear circuits.
JANEWAY: Good idea. Start looking into it.
TUVOK: There is one other matter I wish to discuss. I am concerned about Crewman Dalby. He attempted to make unauthorized repairs on a damaged gel pack. When I confronted him, he lost control.
JANEWAY: How so?
TUVOK: He became extremely angry, to the point of insubordination.
JANEWAY: Dalby. I've heard complaints about him from others.
TUVOK: Indeed. This is not the first incident involving Mister Dalby. Last week he was found tampering with ship's systems to increase a friends replicator rations, and he has missed three of his last ten duty shifts.
JANEWAY: Commander, you know Mister Dalby better than I do. Any idea what might be bothering him?
CHAKOTAY: Dalby's always been pretty aggressive. My guess is the man's frustrated. He's not used to dealing with Starfleet protocol and procedures.
TUVOK: A starship cannot run without protocols. Mister Dalby's attitude is disrupting this vessels operations.
CHAKOTAY: What do you suggest? Dragging him in front of a disciplinary board?
TUVOK: Perhaps that would be the best approach.
JANEWAY: I doubt that's going to help. Dalby's not the only Maquis who's having problems adjusting. And besides, it's not only a matter of attitude, it's also a matter of experience. It's not fair to expect Starfleet behavior from people who never went to the Academy.
TUVOK: What do you propose?
JANEWAY: We need to bring some of these people up to speed. Instruct them in how to run a Starfleet vessel. Show them why we do things the way we do. Give them an opportunity to feel like they're part of the team.
CHAKOTAY: A crash course in Starfleet operations. Field training.
JANEWAY: Exactly. So, what do you think, Mister Tuvok. Are you up training a group of raw cadets?
TUVOK: Me?
JANEWAY: You taught at the Academy for sixteen years. You'd be perfect for the job.
TUVOK: Commander Chakotay would be a more logical choice to be their instructor. He is a Maquis, as well as their former Captain.
JANEWAY: That's my point. He doesn't have to earn their respect. We do.
TUVOK: Very well, Captain, I will prepare a curriculum.
JANEWAY: Commander, pick out the Maquis crewmembers you feel would benefit most from the training. Have them report to Lt Tuvok at the next duty shift.
CHAKOTAY: Right. Don't worry, Tuvok. I'll tell them to take it easy on you.

[Cargo bay]
TUVOK: Good morning. We have assembled here because Captain Janeway feels you would all benefit from additional Starfleet training. Consequently
HENLEY: I think we need some clarification. Just why have we been singled out for this honor?
TUVOK: The answer to that question would seem to be self evident, crewman. Interrupting a senior officer is not acceptable behavior. The purpose of this training is to familiarize you with Starfleet protocols so that mistakes like that will be minimized.
CHELL: Still, the fact remains. That is, if I have permission to speak, Lieutenant? Thank you. As I was saying, the fact remains that you must have noticed certain problems with each member of this select group or we wouldn't be here. I frankly can't imagine what I might have done that warrants my inclusion.
TUVOK: Crewman Chell.
CHELL: In fact
TUVOK: Your report indicates that you are talkative, disruptive and unreliable. You promise to do tasks which then go undone.
CHELL: That is a complete exaggeration. Just yesterday I overhauled a servicing system
TUVOK: Crewman! From this point on you will speak only if you are spoken to.
CHELL: But Lieutenant, I'm just trying to
TUVOK: Forty laps around the cargo bay. Start running now.
CHELL: But
TUVOK: Fifty laps.
TUVOK: As I was saying, this class will adhere to standards established for Starfleet cadets. There will be physical training and academic studies, as well as tactical situations which will be simulated on the holodeck. Crewman, have you been listening to me?
TUVOK: Excuse me. I did not hear that answer.
GERRON: Yes.
TUVOK: Speak up, crewman.
GERRON: I said, yes.
TUVOK: From now on you will look at me when I am talking to you.
DALBY: Leave him alone.
TUVOK: What was that?
DALBY: I said, leave him alone. Can't you see he's just a kid? He shouldn't even be here.
TUVOK: We think he should.
DALBY: You'll probably have me running two hundred laps for this, but I don't care. The problem we're having, Lieutenant, is that this whole thing is insulting. We didn't ask to come aboard this ship but we understand the situation we're in and we've done the best job we can, and now you're telling us that's not good enough.
TUVOK: That is correct.
DALBY: Well, maybe that's too bad. Maybe we've done the best we can and that's as good as you're going to get. How about it? Does anybody really want to be here?
HENLEY: I don't have anything to learn from him.
DALBY: Well I don't think he's going to phaser us, and frankly I'd rather be in the brig than in here, so let's go.
TUVOK: Crewmen, you are demonstrating rank insubordination. I order all of you to stay where you are.
DALBY: Chell! Come on, we're leaving.

[Mess hall]
GERRON: I don't know. Maybe it wasn't such a good idea to leave like that. I mean, they're not just going to let us get away with it.
HENLEY: What are they going to do, put us off the ship? Keep us in the brig for seventy years? Every person on this ship is needed. Nothing's going to happen.
DALBY: It's not like we're guilty of mutiny. We'll just keep doing our jobs, same as ever. We're just not going to jump through any Starfleet hoops.
CHAKOTAY: You want to give me your version of what happened?
DALBY: Commander, we're going to live up to our responsibilities on this ship. We're just not going to be treated like teenage cadets.
CHAKOTAY: I see.
HENLEY: It was ridiculous. Tuvok had Chell running laps around the cargo bay.
DALBY: And he was picking on Gerron. I don't like it.
CHAKOTAY: Really?
DALBY: Look, Commander, you know as well as I do that we're used to playing with a different rule book. There's the Starfleet way, and there's the Maquis way.
CHAKOTAY: And you want to do things the Maquis way?
DALBY: That's right. That's always worked for us.
CHAKOTAY: That's the Maquis way too, isn't it? And if you want to keep doing it the Maquis was that's fine with me. We can do that tomorrow, the next day, everyday, until you report to Lieutenant Tuvok. You understand me? What? How does a Starfleet crewman answer a question?
DALBY: Yes. Sir.
CHAKOTAY: Does anyone else have a problem.

[Cargo bay]
TUVOK: These are your study assignments for next week. Please note that examinations will be conducted randomly with no advance notice. I will now inspect your uniforms. Crewman Henley, your headband is certainly festive.
HENLEY: Thank you.
TUVOK: However, it is in violation of regulations. Please check the protocol files for recommended guidelines. What is this?
CHELL: It's a Kazleti design. I studied the technique when I visited their planet. It took me weeks to learn. I know it doesn't look complicated but this
TUVOK: This ornament is in violation of the dress code.
CHELL: It was hidden. You could hardly see it.
TUVOK: You will remove it now.
GERRON: I know, I'll have to take off the earring.
TUVOK: Correct. In addition, your boots are scuffed. From now on you will arrive in polished boots.
TUVOK: Do you have a problem, Mister Dalby?
DALBY: No, sir.
TUVOK: Very well. You will all report to me on deck eleven at nineteen hundred hours. Dismissed.
HENLEY: What are we going to be doing?
TUVOK: You will find that out at nineteen hundred hours. Dismissed.

[Engineering]
DALBY: I'm going through with this field training, as ordered. I can't say it's very productive. Frankly, it feels like punishment.
TORRES: In other words you're afraid you won't make it. That you'll fail this training.
DALBY: Excuse me? That's not what I said, or what I'm thinking. What? You think I can't make it through this ridiculous exercise? That's absurd.
TORRES: Fine. Then make it through. It's another power failure.
DALBY: It's the gel packs again.
TORRES: Deck four, section nine C.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Bridge to Engineering. Report.
TORRES: It's another malfunction in the bio-neural circuitry. We're putting a repair crew on it now. Torres out. Dalby. Replace the failed gel pack and check out the adjoining circuits. Make sure we don't have some kind of cascade feedback causing this. We can't just keep replacing these things. Ensign, you're in charge till I get back. I'll be in Sickbay if you need me.

[Sickbay]
KES: What is it?
TORRES: It's your new patient. It's one of the bio-neural gel packs.
EMH: Ah yes, I'm aware of these devices, but I've never seen one.
TORRES: It's malfunctioning but I can't find anything wrong with it mechanically. I thought that you could look at the biological component.
EMH: Interesting.
EMH: Initiate the scan.
KES: Scanning beam is active.
EMH: Ah, ha!
TORRES: What?
EMH: The patient is sick.
TORRES: Can you be more specific?
EMH: To discuss the patient's condition in front of the patient would be a serious breach of professional etiquette. It's been suggested that I cultivate a greater sensitivity to my patient's needs. Don't worry, my little friend.
TORRES: Doctor.
EMH: Very well. The biological component of the circuit device has an infection. A very contagious one.
TORRES: Is the crew in any danger?
KES: I don't detect any sign of infection in you, Lieutenant.
EMH: I suspect the contagion is not harmful to humanoids. If it were, we probably would have seen evidence of illness in the crew by now. But in order to protect the ship's circuitry, you'll have to isolate and quarantine all the affected gel packs until a treatment regimen can be initiated.
TORRES: I'll have to take the forward grids off line. We'll lose replicators but I can reroute the primary systems. How long do you need?
EMH: I don't know. Unless we find the source of the infection, we won't be able to stop it from spreading.
TORRES: Okay, I'll tell the Captain.

[Deck 11 corridor]
TUVOK: We'll be taking a ten kilometer run. I've cleared deck thirteen of personnel for the evening. Make sure your packs are secure to avoid chafing.
CHELL: Couldn't I just carry Henley? She weighs about the same.

[Maintenance access]
TUVOK: We will get to deck thirteen by using the Jeffries tubes.
DALBY: Well, at least it's only two decks down.
TUVOK: Not that way, crewman. We are getting to deck thirteen by way of the mess hall.
HENLEY: That's on deck two. We'd have to crawl through over fifty Jeffries tubes to get there.
TUVOK: Correct. I am glad to see your knowledge of the ship's internal structure is improving. Crewman Gerron, lead the way.
CHELL: Thank you. You can stay there as long as you like as far as I'm concerned. This pack feels like it's filled with latinum bricks.
TUVOK (voiceover): Crewman Gerron. What is the problem up there? Keep going!
CHELL: Maybe he'll slip and plunge to his death.

[Mess hall]
CREWWOMAN: Be my guest.

[Deck 13 corridor]
TUVOK: All right, the ten kilometers begin now.
HENLEY: My legs feel like lead pipes.
DALBY: Don't think about it. Keep your mind on something else.
HENLEY: How about the pain in my shoulders.
TUVOK: That was a run of approximately ten point one kilometers.
HENLEY: That was no run, it was a death march.
TUVOK: You may be experiencing difficulty because I increased the gravity on this deck by ten percent.
DALBY: What?
TUVOK: You never know what conditions you might encounter. You must be prepared for anything. Crewmen Gerron and Chell, you have not completed your run. By my account we have lapped you three times. You will finish the ten kilometers now. We will repeat this exercise tomorrow evening and I will expect each one of you to better your performance.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: Have you found any traces of the bacteria?
KIM: I've checked the transporter logs for the past month. There's no indication that the biofilter picked up anything suspicious.
TORRES: We stopped at that planet, Napinne, brought on some food stores for Neelix. Some of it looked pretty strange.
KIM: Right. Varmeliate fiber, whole green putillos and schplict.
TORRES: Schplict?
KIM: Grakel milk. I've looked at the logs, everything checked out.
TORRES: Okay, let's go over the environmental systems. Maybe we're dealing with something airborne.
KIM: He's been at it since before I got here.
TORRES: Chell, what are you doing?
CHELL: Mister Tuvok ordered me to degauss the entire transporter room.
TORRES: But you're using a micro-resonator.
CHELL: I know.
TORRES: Why don't you use the magneton scanner? You'd be done in five minutes.
KIM: Tuvok told him to use the micro-resonator.
TORRES: But he'll be at it for hours.
CHELL: Mister Tuvok estimated twenty six point three hours.
KIM: Sounds like a Tuvok estimate.
TORRES: Well, good luck.
KIM: Oh, you missed a spot.
TUVOK (voiceover): Security log, supplemental. I have recreated the bridge of Voyager on the holodeck and scheduled a war games simulation. I am hopeful that an exercise in teamwork will help to instill a sense of participation among my trainees.

[Holodeck - Voyager bridge]
TUVOK: On the bridge, we depend on the smooth functioning of every crewman at every station. You are the Captain's eyes, ears and hands. You must function as one perfectly tuned unit. Mister Dalby, I understand you have command experience.
DALBY: Yes, sir.
TUVOK: You have the Bridge. The program will present you with a series of random events which you and your crew must deal with in whatever manner you see fit.
DALBY: I understand.
TUVOK: The program will be initiated when you set a course.
DALBY: All set?
ALL: Aye, sir. Ready.
DALBY: Mister Chell, ahead warp six. Heading one five nine mark seven.
CHELL: Aye, sir.
DALBY: Mister Gerron, what's the nearest star system?
GERRON: I'm showing a red giant system three point seven light years from our current position. There are eight planets, none of them M-class.
HENLEY: Sir, we're picking up an automated distress call.
DALBY: Source?
HENLEY: Unknown. There's a lot of subspace interference.
DALBY: Gerron, can you get a fix?
GERRON: Sensors indicate a Ferengi ship heavily damaged by weapons fire. Eight life form readings, very faint.
DALBY: Hail them.
HENLEY: They're not responding.
CHELL: I must point out sir that the Ferengi have been known to deceive other ships by pretending to be damaged. We could be falling into a trap.
DALBY: We have a duty to offer humanitarian aid if we can. Chell, change course to intercept.
CHELL: Course laid in, sir.
DALBY: Proceed.
GERRON: Sir, a Romulan Warbird decloaking off the port bow.
DALBY: Red alert. Hail them. Let them know we're on a rescue mission.
HENLEY: They're powering up weapons.
GERRON: No response to the hail.
DALBY: Evasive maneuvers, Mister Chell.
CHELL: Initiating evasive sequence beta nine three.
HENLEY: We've been hit on the lateral phaser array. Shields at eighty one percent.
DALBY: Arm all forward phasers.
GERRON: Sir, there's a second Romulan ship decloaking dead ahead. It's launching torpedoes.
GERRON: Damage to decks eleven through fifteen. Reports of casualties.
DALBY: Arm all photon banks. Mister Chell, continuous evasive action. Henley, fire at will!
HENLEY: Aye, sir.
GERRON: Shields are buckling. Hull breach on deck nine.
DALBY: Keep firing, Henley. Let's do as much damage as we can.
TUVOK: Computer, reset program. Your first command together was less than successful. You are all dead.
DALBY: It was a no-win situation. What were we supposed to do?
TUVOK: Can anyone answer that question?
HENLEY: I thought we went by the book.
CHELL: I certainly did everything I could possibly do. My evasive action sequences can not be faulted.
HENLEY: At least we went out with our phasers firing.
TUVOK: Mister Gerron, do you have something to add?
GERRON: What does it matter?
TUVOK: It matters, because if you do not learn from your mistakes, you will be doomed to repeat them.
DALBY: I was in command. Put the blame on me. The crew was just following my orders.
TUVOK: And have you reached a conclusion as to your error?
DALBY: I thought I did everything I could. We were just out-gunned.
TUVOK: I see. Did the possibility of retreat not occur to you?
HENLEY: Retreat?
DALBY: I can't believe you'd say that.
TUVOK: The strongest tactical move is always the one in which you will reap the highest gain at the lowest cost. Going out with phasers firing may seem heroic, but in the long run it is merely foolish. Retreat is often the best possible option.
DALBY: Well, Mister Tuvok, once more you've proven your point. We're just not Starfleet material. Are we dismissed, sir?
TUVOK: Dismissed. Computer, exit.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: I feel that my services as Morale Officer are required.
TUVOK: I assure you, you are wrong.
NEELIX: Oh really? One, no cup of tea. Two, no PADD. Three, you're sitting on the opposite side from usual. All of that tells me you've got something on your mind. And what tells me that it's making you miserable is that cloud of doom that's rising from you like a ground fog.
TUVOK: I cannot imagine that there are visible emanations which allow you to interpret my mood. You are making wild assumptions.
NEELIX: Ah, ha. Maquis trainees getting you down?
TUVOK: I do not believe they are responding well to my instruction.
NEELIX: What seems to be the problem?
TUVOK: That is what I have been trying to determine, and I'm afraid I am at a loss. I have taught literally thousands of cadets and I have never encountered these difficulties. My methods are sound and time-honored. I insist on strict adherence to rules and protocols. I never waver from that approach. I have always been successful in honing each cadet into a Starfleet officer.
NEELIX: Come with me, I want to show you something.
NEELIX: These are Keela flowers. Beautiful, and remarkably strong. The stem is flexible, impossible to break. But occasionally on the same plant there's a bloom whose stem is not so flexible. Ah, here's one. And when the stem is brittle, it breaks.
TUVOK: You're saying that the Maquis crew is rigid and inflexible. That they will never adjust to Starfleet rules.
NEELIX: No, Mister Vulcan, I'm saying that you are rigid and inflexible, but maybe if you'd learn to bend a little, you might have better luck with your class. Those Maquis aren't Starfleet cadets. You can't treat them the same way. Get to know them, try to find out what they're like inside. You might discover a better teaching method.
TUVOK: I am not sure if I have the ability to find out what they are like inside. Mister Neelix, what is that?
NEELIX: Brill cheese. I made it from that schplict we brought on board last week. Ensign Ashmore asked for something called macaroni and cheese.
TUVOK: Cheese. You must cultivate bacteria to make cheese.
NEELIX: Of course.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48859.3. Lieutenant Tuvok has reported what may be a possible explanation for the infection in the bio-neural gel packs. I have asked Lieutenant Torres and her team to investigate Neelix's kitchen.

[Mess hall kitchen]
TORRES: Get me a schematic of the airflow patterns for the whole ship.
CREWMAN: Aye Sir.
TORRES: The cheese is full of volatile bacterial spores. It has to stay isolated in this portable containment field.
CREWWOMAN: What is this?
NEELIX: That's just a Laurelian pudding. It has to simmer for four hours.
TORRES: The spores must have traveled through that intake and then into the ventilation system.
TUVOK: Where they were disseminated throughout the ship, subsequently infecting the bio-neural circuitry.
NEELIX: I feel awful about this. I assure you I had no idea.
TORRES: More gel packs must be down. If this is getting to the environmental systems we may be in more trouble that we thought. Neelix, this wasn't your fault. The important thing is that we found the source. Get the cheese to Sickbay. The Doctor should look at it as soon as possible.
CREWMAN: Yes, Lieutenant.

[Sandrine's]
TUVOK: You may break, Mister Dalby.
DALBY: Okay.
TUVOK: Do you play pool often?
DALBY: Not really. I did when I was younger.
TUVOK: Do you have a family?
DALBY: What is this all about?
TUVOK: Pardon?
DALBY: This little exercise. Are we testing my social skills? Does Starfleet have rules about them too?
TUVOK: I had thought we could get to know each other. Perhaps then our relationship would function more smoothly.
DALBY: Get to know each other? Okay, here's the brief history of Kenneth Dalby. We lived on the Bajoran frontier. It was a hard life. I coped by getting into a lot of trouble. I was angry at everybody and everything, till a woman came along and taught me about love. For a while, I wasn't angry any more. Three Cardassians raped her and smashed her skull. I joined the Maquis and tried to slaughter as many of them as I could find. How about you? Any family?
TUVOK: I do, but there is nothing to report about them that would compare with your story. I've observed that you seem to be somewhat protective of Mister Gerron. Have you formed a friendship with him?
DALBY: No. He won't let me get close. First time I saw him, I thought I was looking at myself at that age. I thought maybe I could be a friend, maybe he wouldn't turn out the way I did. But I didn't have much luck. And then we got stuck out here. Being so far away from home is hard on somebody that young, so I'd appreciate it if you'd try not to make him any more miserable that he is already.
TUVOK: Commander Chakotay specifically recommended Mister Gerron for this program. He felt that if the young man were able to learn new skills, to set goals and accomplish them, it might go a long way to helping him feel better about himself.
DALBY: That's why he's in this group?
TUVOK: It is our intention that the experience be positive for everyone.
DALBY: If you say so. But understand this, Lieutenant. I don't want to get to know you, and I don't want to be your friend.

[Sickbay]
EMH: This is the most pernicious infectious agent I've ever seen. It systematically attacked every cell in the gel pack's biological matrix.
KES: I've exposed it to every anti-bacterial agent we have available. It hasn't responded.
EMH: Sickbay to Bridge. Captain, what seems to be happening.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We're losing more bio-neural circuitry, Doctor.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: All systems are being affected. Please, tell me you have some good news about a treatment.
EMH (voiceover): I'm afraid not. Frankly, I'm at a loss.

[Sickbay]
EMH: But we'll keep trying.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Please do. Janeway out.
EMH: What I find curious is that these bacteria didn't show up in any of our diagnostic scans of the ship. But if the bacteria from the cheese into the ship's systems, how did the gel packs get infected?
KES: Haven't I read that viruses can live inside bacteria?
EMH: Of course. A virus. The bacteria could be hosts to the infectious virus. There are thousands of viruses so small they would have escaped detection.
KES: So maybe we should try the anti-viral agents on the gel-packs.
EMH: It's certainly worth a try.

[Cargo bay]
DALBY: I think the inertial dampeners are malfunctioning.
HENLEY: Along with a lot of other things.
TUVOK: Class dismissed. Return to your duty stations.
CHELL: Lieutenant? We're stuck in here.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, the bio-neural network is failing sequentially. We're losing systems faster than we can compensate with backups.
CHAKOTAY: What about changing over to isolinear circuitry?
KIM: Torres is working on it, but it's a long way from being ready. It couldn't even maintain life support at this point.
PARIS: Propulsion is down.
KIM: Every system on the main grid is down. Communication, transporters, turbolifts and life support.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres here, Captain.
JANEWAY: Transfer whatever power you can to life support, and keep working on the isolinear circuitry.
TORRES (voiceover): Understood.

[Cargo Bay]
GERRON: The manual override isn't working, sir.
DALBY: Can't get the main cargo door open either.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Bridge. This is Lieutenant Tuvok, is anyone receiving this message? It appears our duty stations will have to do without us for the time being.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, life support is failing. Deck fifteen has lost all power and deck seven has lost it's gravitational grid.
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to Bridge. Captain, I believe we may have something.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Doctor.
EMH (voiceover): The gel packs are incapable of responding to

[Sickbay]
EMH: an infection in the same way humanoid organisms do.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: With a fever.
EMH (voiceover): Exactly.

[Sickbay]
EMH: We've experimented with heating the samples of bio-neural circuitry we have here and the results are promising. Of course, we don't have the ability to produce the amount of heat needed

[Bridge]
EMH (voiceover): To wipe out a ship-wide infection.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Torres.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres here.
JANEWAY: If we wanted to superheat the gel pack system, to raise it's temperature, so to speak, how could we do it?
TORRES (voiceover): I suppose we could infuse the gel pack

[Engineering]
TORRES: Circuits with a high energy plasma burst from a symmetric warp field.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: But we'd have to generate that heat by inverting the warp field towards the ship.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Right. We could produce the required energy by getting the warp engines to eighty percent of maximum while we're standing still.

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): Then we could initiate the plasma burst.
JANEWAY: Can we get to eighty percent with all the control failures we have?

[Engineering]
TORRES: If we re-route the emergency power to the warp engines it might be enough. But it's a risky move.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I'm aware of that, but I think we have to try it. Divert all power including life support to the warp engines
TORRES (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, deactivate the nacelle control system and prepare to engage the warp engines.
PARIS: Nacelle controls deactivated. Ready to go.
JANEWAY: Do it.

[Cargo bay]
CHELL: What's that noise?
DALBY: This conduit is getting very hot.
HENLEY: So am I. It's getting awfully warm in here.
CHELL: Something's wrong. Very wrong. I don't like this at all.
TUVOK: I would surmise that the Captain is making some effort to deal with the systems failures. The fact that we do not know what that effort entails may lead us to imagine the worst. We must not let fear get the best of us. Mister Gerron, it is possible the console in the control room is still functioning. Please see if you can open the doors from there.
GERRON: Yes, sir.
TUVOK: In the mean time, we can attempt to access one of the Jeffries tubes through the forward bulkhead.

[Bridge]
PARIS: I don't know about the bacteria, but I'm about ready to pass out.
CHAKOTAY: Engines are only at seventy four percent of maximum. That's not enough for a plasma burst.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, increase antimatter flow.
KIM: It's having an affect, Captain. Temperature is at three hundred and forty Kelvins. Can we get the engines a little hotter?
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, get us to eighty percent of maximum somehow.
PARIS: I'll try.
KIM: Okay, we're at three hundred and sixty Kelvins.
CHAKOTAY: Engines are at seventy nine percent of maximum. I think we can risk it.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Torres, initiate the plasma burst.
TORRES (voiceover): Aye, Captain, but be prepared. It might blow out some of the conduits.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Go ahead.

[Cargo Bay]
TUVOK: The plasma gas will become toxic within minutes. We must leave immediately.
DALBY: What about Gerron? We can't leave him.
TUVOK: Get in the Jeffries tube. I cannot risk losing any more of you to save one man.
DALBY: What is that, some kind of Starfleet rule?
TUVOK: It is always tactically correct to sacrifice the few for the many.
DALBY: I don't give a Circassian fig what's tactically correct, I'm going back for him. This is one time when retreat is not an option.
TUVOK: Get in the Jeffries tube now! Mister Dalby, I will break your arm if you do not follow my order.
DALBY: I won't forget this. You're letting him die.
TUVOK: Keep moving.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Janeway to sickbay, report.
EMH (voiceover): Bacterial levels are dropping, Captain.

[Sickbay]
EMH: If they continue, we should be able to purge the system within a few minutes.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Keep me informed.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We need life support back on line as soon as possible.
EMH (voiceover): I'll get back to you right away, Captain.
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to Bridge. Repeat, Sickbay to Bridge. Can anyone hear me?
CHAKOTAY: Come in, doctor.
EMH (voiceover): All of the infectious bacteria have been destroyed.

[Sickbay]
EMH: The danger of further infection has passed.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, start getting our systems back on line.
KIM: Aye, Captain.

[Cargo bay]
CHELL: Come on, come on!

[Outside the Cargo bay]
HENLEY: I think he's all right.
DALBY: I thought Starfleet rules said that was an unacceptable risk, going back to save him.
TUVOK: It was. However, I recently realized that there are times when it is desirable to bend the rules.
DALBY: Lieutenant, if you can learn to bend the rules, I guess we can learn to follow them. Come on, let's get you two to Sickbay.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Rust?
KIM: That's right, Captain. High levels of ferric oxide. Corroded iron particles.
JANEWAY: Would you mind telling me how iron could rust in space without oxygen?
KIM: I wish I could.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, alter our course to follow that trail of rust. One quarter impulse.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
KIM: Captain, look at this. I'm picking up traces of complex hydrocarbons in the rust. Benzene, ethylene, acetylene.
PARIS: That sounds like gasoline.
CHAKOTAY: Gasoline?
PARIS: It's a liquid fuel that was used centuries ago on Earth. They burned it to drive internal combustion engines.
JANEWAY: How did it get out here?
TUVOK: I'm detecting a small object. It appears to be the source of the rust and hydrocarbons.
JANEWAY: Put it on screen. Magnify.

[Cargo bay]
TUVOK: Apparently it is a ground vehicle from mid-twentieth century Earth.
PARIS: It's a 1936 Ford, actually.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris?
PARIS: That was the manufacturing date, 1936. Ford was the name of the company that build it. Antique vehicles are a hobby of mine.
PARIS: Internal combustion engine, a reciprocating piston cylinder design, fuel source was a refined petroleum. Gasoline.
KIM: So is this an early hover car?
PARIS: No, you're about a century too early for that. This is about one step ahead of the horse drawn carriage.
TORRES: Traces of potassium nitrate, ammonium and methane back here.
JANEWAY: I think you'll find that's manure. Horse manure, if I'm not mistaken. Judging from the mud on the wheels, and the alfalfa seedlings stuck in the metal frame, I'd say this vehicle belonged to a farmer, or at least someone who lived in a rural area. But the question is, how did it get here? I doubt there are many twentieth century farmers driving around the Delta Quadrant.
TUVOK: There are no signs of any wormholes or temporal anomalies in this region of space.
JANEWAY: Let's run a metallurgical analysis of the vehicle.
PARIS: There's still oil in the crank case, water in the radiator. I wonder if the battery's still charged. Now, let's see. This is before voice command activation, so there should be something in here called a key. Key.
KIM: What are you doing?
PARIS: Trying to bring this beauty back to life. Now where are the keys? Ah ha. Here they are. Okay, choke out, clutch in, give her a little gas, turn the key and step on the starter.
PARIS: Sorry.
JANEWAY: Next time you might give us a little warning, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: I suggest we increase the ventilation in the cargo bay before we are asphyxiated.
KIM: What's that?
PARIS: That is an amplitude modulation receiving device. AM radio. Not sure we'll pick up much out here.
PARIS: Whoa. What was that?
TORRES: What is that?
KIM: It's too regular to be random interference.
TORRES: I'm running the signal through the ship's database. It's an ancient Earth distress call known as an SOS.

[Bridge]
KIM: I've located the source of the SOS signal. It's coming from a planet in a star system bearing three one zero mark two one five.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, lay in a course.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Why didn't we pick up this signal earlier?
KIM: This isn't one of the standard frequencies we monitor. Messages on this channel only travel at the speed of light. Too slow for interstellar communications.
PARIS: Course laid in, Captain.
JANEWAY: Warp six. engage.
CREWMAN (voiceover): I'll run a diagnostic check, sir.
JANEWAY: Bring us out of warp. Full scan, Mister Kim.
KIM: The SOS signal is coming from the third planet. It's class L, oxygen argon atmosphere.
JANEWAY: Any life signs?
KIM: There's a great deal of trinimbic interference in the upper atmosphere. I can't get a clear reading of the surface.
CHAKOTAY: Can you pin point the coordinates of the distress call?
KIM: Yes, here it is. It's coming from a continent in the northern hemisphere.
CHAKOTAY: We won't be able to transport through this kind of interference. I might be able to take an away team in a shuttlecraft.
TUVOK: That would not be wise, Commander, as the atmosphere is charged with trinimbic turbulence. A shuttlecraft could not safely navigate the currents.
JANEWAY: We could land the ship.
CHAKOTAY: Are you sure that's necessary?
JANEWAY: Someone on this planet is sending out a distress call.
CHAKOTAY: If that someone is as old as the truck in the cargo bay, they're long dead by now. This might be an automated distress call.
JANEWAY: Possibly. But something brought that truck half way across the galaxy, and that something might be down on that planet.
CHAKOTAY: And if it brought the truck here, it might be able to take us home too.
JANEWAY: I'd say it's worth a look. Mister Paris, prepare the ship for landing.
PARIS: Captain, I think I should tell you I've never actually landed a starship before.
JANEWAY: That's all right, Lieutenant, neither have I. Bridge to Engineering. We're going to land the ship, Miss Torres. Take the warp core offline, vent all plasma from the nacelles and standby to engage atmospheric thrusters.
TORRES (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: This is Lieutenant Tuvok to all decks. We are preparing to land the ship. Go to blue alert and report to code blue stations.
PARIS: I've plotted a descent course. How close do you want to land to the distress coordinates?
JANEWAY: No closer than two kilometers.
PARIS: Okay. Atmospheric controls at standby. Landing mechanisms online. Inertial dampers at maximum.
TUVOK: All decks report condition blue, Captain.
JANEWAY: Put her down, Mister Paris.
JANEWAY: Status.
PARIS: We're on the glide trajectory. Altitude one hundred kilometers, speed ten thousand kph. Encountering some trinimbic turbulence. Compensating.
KIM: We have an EM discharge in the lateral relays. I'm rerouting the ODN conduit.
PARIS: Come on.
KIM: Another EM discharge. I think we're all right. though.
PARIS: Twenty kilometers to the landing site. We should be able to see it now.
JANEWAY: Extend landing struts. Prepare to release inertial dampers and adjust them to match the planet's gravity.
PARIS: Landing struts down and locked.
KIM: Standing by environmental controls.
PARIS: Here we go.
PARIS: Disengaging engines, securing thrusters exhaust. We're down.
JANEWAY: Not bad, for a beginner.

[Planet surface]
JANEWAY: Nice day.
KIM: I've locked onto the distress signal. It's one point five kilometers on a bearing of two four six.
CHAKOTAY: Wait a second, I've got something else. There's a high concentration of trianium particles bearing two two five, a little over a kilometer away. Looks like some kind of power source.
JANEWAY: Two teams. Chakotay, yours investigates the power source. Tuvok, Kim, you're with me.

[Outside the aircraft]
JANEWAY: My god.
TUVOK: The metal is an aluminum alloy. It appears to be an ancient Earth aircraft.
KIM: The SOS call is coming from inside.

[Inside the aircraft]
KIM: I've found the AM transmitter. From what I can tell, it's sending out an automated SOS.
JANEWAY: What about the power source? Somehow I find it hard to believe the battery on this aircraft has been running for four hundred years.
KIM: I don't recognize the power signature. Hold on, Captain, I've found what appears to be an alien fusion based generator. It's hooked up to the AM transmitter.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Janeway.

[Outside the aircraft]
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Commander.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We've located the source

[Outside the cave entrance]
CHAKOTAY: Of the trianium readings. It appears to be some sort of mine shaft. I'd like to bring out another security detachment before we go inside.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Good idea.

[Outside the aircraft]
JANEWAY: Good idea. I'll join you. Janeway out. I want the two of you to analyze the alien generator. Then see what you can find out about this SOS call.

[Tunnels]
TORRES: I'm picking up something directly ahead. Some kind of power signature, fusion based.

[Cryochamber]
TORRES: This looks like some kind of cryostasis chamber.
JANEWAY: How many bodies are there?
TORRES: Eight. And the equipment is still functioning.
JANEWAY: He's human. And from the clothes I'd say he's from the same era as the vehicle we found.
TORRES: His life sign readings are minimal, but he's alive.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, according to these readings there are five other cryostasis chambers nearby. No life signs in any of them. This appears to be the only one with people inside.
TORRES: There's another male over here.
JANEWAY: This one's a female. She's wearing some sort of leather jacket and a pair of gold wings. Wait, there's a name tag here. I think it's A period E A R H A R T. Earhart. A Earhart. Amelia Earhart!

[Briefing room]
KIM: Who's Amelia Earhart?
JANEWAY: She was one of the first female pilots in Earth History. In the mid twentieth century she became quite famous for flying across the Atlantic Ocean. In 1937 she attempted to fly around the world. According to the records of the time, on July 2nd 1937 Earhart and her navigator, Fred Noonan, took off from New Guinea and they were headed east, around the Equator. But somewhere in the South Seas they vanished and their disappearance became one of the most celebrated mysteries of the twentieth century.
PARIS: Why didn't they think she'd just crashed?
JANEWAY: That was the most commonly held theory. However, numerous searches of the area failed to produce the wreckage of an aircraft, so people began to speculate. Some thought she'd been shot down and captured by the Japanese Navy. Others thought that she and Noonan had flown off together on some sort of romantic adventure. Of course, the most ridiculed notion was that she had been abducted by aliens.
CHAKOTAY: Well, it certainly looks like that's what happened. From what we can tell, all eight of the people in that stasis chamber were taken from Earth in the 1930's and brought here.
KIM: The question is, why? And where are the aliens who did this?
TUVOK: Scans of the region show no alien life signs.
JANEWAY: Continue the scans. They may not be here now, but once they detect our presence, they might return. In the meantime, we'll have to get some answers on our own. Have you had any luck tapping into the computer system in the cryochamber?
TUVOK: Not as of yet. We are having difficulty decoding the operating system.
PARIS: There's one way we could find out what happened. We could wake those people up and ask them.
JANEWAY: I've had the same thought myself.
TORRES: Is that wise? We don't know how these people are going to react when they wake up in an alien world in the twenty fourth century.
JANEWAY: True, but I'm not willing to just leave them in stasis for another four hundred years. And if we can find out how they were brought here, we might be able to use that method to get home. We'll just have to be very careful how we handle this.
CHAKOTAY: I suggest that only human crew members be present when we revive them.
JANEWAY: Agreed. Mister Kim, I want a complete analysis of those cryostasis tubes. Find a way to deactivate them safely.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Commander, apprise the Doctor of our situation. Tell him to instruct Kes in the proper procedure for reviving someone from cryostasis. She can be made to look human easily enough. In the meantime I suggest we all brush up on ancient Earth. We're about to meet a bit of our history.

[Cryochamber]
PARIS: We're ready, Captain.
KIM: All the cryo-tubes are linked by a common power source, so we've decided to revive everyone simultaneously.
JANEWAY: Proceed.
KIM: The power's offline. Deactivate locking mechanisms.
PARIS: Captain, this one's armed with some kind of weapon.
JANEWAY: Disarm him, just to be on the safe side.
JANEWAY: I know this must be very strange for you.
NOONAN: Who are you? What is going on here?
NOGAMI: I demand you release me immediately.
JANEWAY: Please, if you'll just listen for a moment, I'll try to explain.
NOGAMI: You are all speaking Japanese.
HAYES: Sounds to me like you are speaking English.
JANEWAY: It's because of a device we have. A universal translator. It allows us to talk to each other even though our languages aren't the same.
AMELIA: Who are you people?
HAYES: Look, just let us go home. We won't tell anybody.
NOONAN: The hell we won't! I'm going to let the world know what you people have done. Do you know who you've kidnapped here? Amelia Earhart. I'm her navigator. This is going to be headline news. You people are in trouble.
AMELIA: Fred, let her talk.
JANEWAY: What I'm going to tell you is going to sound hard to believe. Even preposterous. We think you were abducted from Earth in the 1930's and brought millions of miles through space to a planet on the other side of the galaxy. You were put into a kind of deep sleep for a very long time. It's not the 1930's any more. The year is 2371, over four hundred years from the time you were abducted.
AMELIA: You must think we are awfully gullible.
JANEWAY: Tell me, what's the last thing you remember before waking up here?
AMELIA: We were over the Pacific, running low on gas. We were looking for an atoll to set down. We tried to send out an SOS and suddenly there was this huge light in back of us. And the plane stopped, dead. And then it started moving backward towards the light. I must have blacked out. And I woke up here, just now.
HAYES: That's just the way it was with me! I was in my truck heading into town. I was just about to get onto the blacktop, when this big light come down from the sky. Just about blinded me. Next thing I know the whole truck is lifted up off the ground.
JANEWAY: I believe what happened was that you were abducted by aliens, and if we can find out how they got you here, we might all be able to get back to Earth.
NOONAN: I want some real answers, now.
JANEWAY: I assure you, I am telling the truth.
NOONAN: You! Come on down here and get those funny looking guns of theirs.
NOONAN: You, get over there with the others.
AMELIA: What is this?
KES: It's a medical device. I'm just trying to make sure that everyone is all right.
NOONAN: Now, how do we get out of here?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to away team.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain, I'm picking up some energy displacements

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: On the surface. I think it might be alien humanoids. It looks like they're using some kind of deflection system to trick our sensors.

[Cryochamber]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I think you'd better get up here.
NOONAN: Who's that talking?
JANEWAY: That's Commander Chakotay, on our ship.
NOONAN: Commander, huh? Okay, now hear this, Commander.

[Bridge]
NOONAN (voiceover): There's a gun pointed at the lady's head right now, so you call Washington

[Cryochamber]
NOONAN: And you tell them we're holding your people prisoner, and they're not going anywhere until I personally talk to J Edgar Hoover. You've got one hour.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Captain?

[Cryochamber]
JANEWAY: It seems we're being held hostage, Commander. I suggest you pay attention to what the gentleman says.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I understand.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay out.
TUVOK: All security personnel report to the cargo bay immediately.

[Cryochamber]
AMELIA: The compass isn't working.
JANEWAY: I know what we've told you sounds hard to believe, but there was a time when no one believed that a woman could fly across the Atlantic. Now, people are able to travel between the stars. The galaxy is full of many different species. For instance, this young woman isn't human, she's an Ocampa.
AMELIA: I've been on expeditions all over the world, and I've seen people do all kinds of strange things to their bodies. That doesn't mean that Martians have invaded Earth.
KIM: Actually it was the other way around. Mars was colonized by people from Earth in 2103.
NOONAN: That's enough! All of you just go over there and sit down and keep quiet.

[Cargo bay]
CHAKOTAY: The trinimbic interference has affected the transporter's targeting scanners. We can't beam into the chamber so we'll have to go on foot.
TUVOK: We will deploy throughout the caves, sealing off any exit from the chamber.
CHAKOTAY: Let's go.

[Cryochamber]
AMELIA: Now is probably not the best time for that, Fred.
NOONAN: Just a little pick me up.
PARIS: He's had a few nips from that flask, Captain. We could probably rush him, get the gun.
JANEWAY: Let me try to talk to Earhart first. She seems reasonable. Maybe I can get through to her. Miss Earhart?
JANEWAY: I want you to know you've always been an inspiration to me. Because of you, generations of women have become pilots.
AMELIA: Generations. What's your name?
JANEWAY: Kathryn Janeway.
AMELIA: I heard the Commander call you Captain. What exactly do you captain?
JANEWAY: The Federation Starship Voyager.
AMELIA: Starship. That supposed to mean it flies through space?
JANEWAY: That's right.
AMELIA: That isn't possible. Only in books. H G Wells, Jules Verne.
JANEWAY: Maybe if you saw it you'd think otherwise.
AMELIA: Saw it? Where is it?
JANEWAY: On the surface. We're actually about a hundred meters underground now. If you'd come with me to see Voyager, you'd realize that what we're telling you is true.
AMELIA: And risk a trap? No, you could have hundreds of reinforcements up there.
JANEWAY: I assure you, we have no interest in harming you. We took you out of stasis to help you.
AMELIA: Put yourself in my shoes, Captain. If you were me, would you believe your story?
JANEWAY: Maybe not. Let me tell you some of what happened after you disappeared over the Pacific. No trace of you or your plane was ever found, in spite of a massive search. Over the years there was a lot of speculation about your flight, including the rumor that it was financed by the Government and may have been part of an operation to gather information about the Japanese.
AMELIA: Where did you hear that?
JANEWAY: It's somewhat common knowledge. You see, Japan attacked Pearl Harbor in 1941, drawing the United States into a massive world war. In retrospect, your journey was seen in a different light, perhaps as part of an intelligence mission devised by a Government deeply concerned about Japanese war plans.
AMELIA: No one was supposed to know about that.
JANEWAY: Maybe not in 1937, but now it's part of history.
NOONAN: Hey, I've got an idea. Why don't we stick them in these things? Put them to sleep like we were. No fuss, no trouble.
JANEWAY: Mister Noonan, that will accomplish nothing. Please, let us take you to our ship. You'll see that everything we've told you is true.
NOONAN: Show me how to operate this thing.
AMELIA: Hey! Last time I looked, you were working for me. And I think we should listen to these people. They just may be telling the truth. What's the harm in seeing if maybe they do have this starship? Beats being cooped up in here trying to figure out what happened. How about it? Anyone want to come along?
HAYES: I wouldn't mind taking a look.
JANEWAY: Anyone else?
NOONAN: You're not leaving me behind.
PARIS: Kes and I'll stay with the others, Captain.
JANEWAY: It'll take about ten minutes to get to the surface. Stay close to us. Mister Kim.

[Outside Voyager]
CHAKOTAY: What is it?
TUVOK: I am reading energy displacements again. Possibly alien lifesigns. Two hundred meters ahead.
TUVOK: They may be up there.
CHAKOTAY: Take cover!
CREWWOMAN: Get down!

[Canyon]
JANEWAY: This way.
HAYES: What's all that racket?
JANEWAY: Take cover!
NOONAN: I told you it was a trick!
AMELIA: Fred!
JANEWAY: Janeway to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I'm here, Captain. We're pinned down.
JANEWAY: I can see you from here. Lay down phaser fire. I'm going to circle around to your left, try to come at them from the rear.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Right!
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Torres here, Commander.

[Canyon]
CHAKOTAY: Can you give us some help down here?
TORRES (voiceover): I don't think so.

[Bridge]
TORRES: The targeting scanners are still useless. I can't risk laying down weapons fire if I don't know where it's going.

[Canyon]
CHAKOTAY: Keep trying to get them online.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Aye, Commander.

[Hillside]
JANEWAY: Hold your fire. Drop your weapons. Turn around slowly.
EVANSVILLE: You're not Briori.
JANEWAY: No, I'm human.
EVANSVILLE: Human?
EVANSVILLE: We're human. You're working for the Briori. They have ships like yours.
JANEWAY: I'll answer any questions you have, but first we must take care of our wounded. Can we agree to end this?
EVANSVILLE: Yes.
JANEWAY: I'm Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager.
EVANSVILLE: John Evansville. This is my colleague, Karen Berlin.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Severe trauma to the thoracic cavity, lacerated carotid artery.
AMELIA: He's not going to make it.
EMH: I wouldn't be so sure of that. Vascular regenerator. Hmm. He's not responding to the treatment. The alcohol level in his blood is so high it's inhibiting the repair to his circulatory system. Attempting to compensate.
AMELIA: Told you your drinking'd kill you one day.
NOONAN: She's right, Doc. Just let me die in peace. There's just one thing I want to say to you first, even though it's four hundred years late. Amelia, I love you.
AMELIA: Fred. You never said anything.
NOONAN: You're married, or you were. I guess he's dead now. I just wanted you to know before I, before I met my maker.
EMH: There, that should do it.
NOONAN: Do what?
EMH: You're healed.
NOONAN: You mean I'm not going to die?
EMH: Aside from a hangover, you're going to be fine.
NOONAN: Oh, Amelia, you got to forget what I just told you. Promise me.
AMELIA: Fred, I already have.

[Briefing room]
EVANSVILLE: You've taken the 37s. Why?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I don't understand.
EVANSVILLE: You went into the shrine. You stole the 37s from the sacred altars, and you disturbed the radio signal that we have been so careful to preserve.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I think he's talking about Earhart and the others.
JANEWAY: Tell me more about the 37s? Are you one of them?
EVANSVILLE: I'm one of their descendants. The 37s were brought here over fifteen generations ago by the Briori.
CHAKOTAY: Who are the Briori?
EVANSVILLE: They're an alien race. They abducted over three hundred people from Earth in the year 1937, brought them over here, turned them into slaves. But those slaves revolted, killed the Briori, took their weapons and their technology and survived. And now there are over one hundred thousand of us. The Briori never came back. Now, you answer me. Why did you steal the remaining 37s from the shrine?
JANEWAY: We didn't steal them. We simply revived them.
EVANSVILLE: Revived them? They're dead.
JANEWAY: No, they were simply in a state of what we call cryostasis. That's a form of sleep that appears very much like death.
EVANSVILLE: Do you mean they're alive?
JANEWAY: Yes.
EVANSVILLE: My people have come to regard the 37s as monuments to our ancestors. Nobody has even entered their shrine for generations.
JANEWAY: Mister Evansville, we were hoping to find the ship that brought your ancestors here. Possibly use it to get back to Earth a little faster.
EVANSVILLE: I'm sorry, the Briori ship was destroyed in the slave revolt. There's nothing left. Captain, I'm sorry to hear about your long journey home, but you should know that life on this planet is good. We live in three beautiful cities only fifty miles from here.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'd like to see your cities.
EVANSVILLE: And I'd like to show them to you.

[Bridge]
AMELIA: How fast?
PARIS: Warp nine point nine. In your terms, that's about four billion miles a second.
AMELIA: Think I could take her out for a spin?
PARIS: Well, er
JANEWAY: Mister Evansville has offered to take us on a tour of the settlement. He's extended the invitation to the entire crew, and the 37s, of course.
EVANSVILLE: You, you're a 37?
AMELIA: I guess you could call me that.
EVANSVILLE: It would be an honor to show you our cities.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48975.1. Evansville wasn't exaggerating when he said they have a lot to be proud of here. It was an amazing experience, but it's left me a little disturbed.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Here's the damage report you asked for.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
CHAKOTAY: Is something wrong, Captain? You've seemed a little distracted ever since we came back from the cities. Weren't you impressed?
JANEWAY: A little too impressed.
CHAKOTAY: What do you mean?
JANEWAY: There's a thriving, sophisticated culture on this planet. Of human beings. In someways walking around those cities was almost like being back on Earth.
CHAKOTAY: It was a little eerie. It reminded me of home, too.
JANEWAY: Evansville has offered to let any of our crew stay.
CHAKOTAY: What will you do about that?
JANEWAY: Maybe this is one of those decisions that the captain has to make for the entire ship.
CHAKOTAY: You may have a problem if a lot of people want to stay.
JANEWAY: I know that, but at the same time I can't take a vote every time there's a major decision to be made. And yet, we're a long way from Starfleet, and a lot of the rules and regulations I've learnt to uphold seem distant as well. Am I the only one who's so intent on getting home? Is it just me? Am I leading the crew on a forlorn mission with no real hope of success?
CHAKOTAY: You're not alone. I want to get home, too. And there's not a day that goes by when I don't hear someone mention Earth.
JANEWAY: The people here have built a new Earth. We could stay, help them build a human civilization in the Delta Quadrant. Isn't that an exciting prospect? Shouldn't we be grateful for the opportunity they're giving us?
CHAKOTAY: It is a tempting prospect, but when I hold it up against the prospect of seeing the sun rise over the Arizona desert, or swimming in the Gulf of Mexico on a summers day, there's just no comparison. I want to go home.
JANEWAY: We have one hundred and fifty two men and women on this ship. What happens if half of them decide to stay on the planet? Could we operate Voyager with seventy five crew members?
CHAKOTAY: I doubt it. In fact I don't think we could operate the ship with fewer than one hundred. If too many of the crew choose to stay behind, we could all be stranded here.
JANEWAY: Tell all hands to prepare for an announcement from the Captain at fourteen hundred hours. They deserve to make the choice for themselves.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Here we are! My research on twentieth century Earth is a little thin, but I've done what I can. Pot roast, green beans and something called Jell-O.
NOONAN: You know how to make Jell-O?
NEELIX: I even put in fruit cocktail.
NOONAN: You don't say.
HAYES: I don't know about the rest of you, but I've made up my mind. There is land here that goes begging, and I could have a big farm, just like I always dreamed.
NEELIX: And for you, rice with a little fish. I even replicated some ginger for seasoning.
NOGAMI: Very nice, thank you.
NOONAN: I have to admit, life here looks a lot better than what we left on Earth.
NOGAMI: It's paradise by comparison. And there are many Japanese here. I could be very happy.
NOONAN: We all could. Right?
AMELIA: I'm just not sure. What about you, Mister Neelix? Have you made your decision?
NEELIX: Oh yes, indeed. I'm staying right here with Captain Janeway. She'd be lost without me. She's come to depend on me a great deal.
NOONAN: What about the rest of the crew? Do you think many of them will stay here?
NEELIX: Oh, I don't think so. At least, not many. Well, that is, there's a good chance. Well, now that you ask, I honestly don't know.
TORRES: You? You'd stay here on the planet?
KIM: I didn't say I was going to, I just said I could understand why people would want to. The people here remind me of home. I haven't felt like that since I left Earth.
TORRES: But you're Starfleet. You've always wanted a life in space.
KIM: I know, but, my whole life on a starship, day after day, with no end in sight? That's not exactly what I had in mind.
TORRES: You're not the first person I've heard talk like this. A lot of people are thinking about staying.
KIM: What about you? Don't you have some of those feelings?
TORRES: I'd be lying if I said I didn't.

[Outside Voyager]
AMELIA: Captain. I was told I'd find you here. Am I intruding?
JANEWAY: Not at all. Please join me.
AMELIA: I wanted you to know that the group you brought out of stasis, we've all decided to stay here on the planet.
JANEWAY: I understand.
AMELIA: I must admit the thought of traveling through space, maybe even learning to fly this ship, was very appealing to me.
JANEWAY: And I'd looked forward to getting to know you better. I suspect we have a lot in common.
AMELIA: At first I didn't know what to do. We talked about it for quite some time. Finally I realized the people here on this planet are part of us. We're their ancestors in a way. It made us feel close to them.
JANEWAY: The remarkable thing about the humans on this planet is that they evolved very much like the people on Earth. Tens of thousands of light years apart, both civilizations managed to create a world they could be proud of. One where war and poverty simply don't exist. I certainly can't blame you for wanting to be part of it, any more than I can blame members of my crew if they make the same decision.
AMELIA: When will you find out?
JANEWAY: In half an hour. Any one who wants to stay behind is to report to the cargo bay at fifteen hundred hours.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: I expect Jarvin will stay on the planet. In fact, I'd bet on it.
JANEWAY: Why Jarvin?
CHAKOTAY: He's been more uncomfortable about being on a Starfleet ship than most of the Maquis, and he's gotten involved with a young woman in Quantum Mechanics. I think they'd like to settle down, raise a family.
JANEWAY: The person I expect to see is Baxter.
CHAKOTAY: Baxter? Walter Baxter?
JANEWAY: He's adventurous, a risk taker. I can see him wanting to take on the challenge of building a new life on this planet.
CHAKOTAY: I'd hate to loose Baxter. He's a good man.
JANEWAY: I'd hate to loose Jarvin. I don't want to loose anyone. We've all been through so much together, it just wouldn't seem right. But I couldn't blame anyone, anyone for staying behind. I'm not sure I want to go in.
CHAKOTAY: No matter what happens, we'll make it. Remember that.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain on the bridge.
JANEWAY: All stations prepare for departure. Condition blue, Mister Tuvok. Miss Torres, anti-grav thrusters online.
TORRES: Thrusters enabled.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, inertial dampers to flight configuration. Impulse drive to stand by.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
KIM: All stations report ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: Then lets do it. Take us up.

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: A-koo-chee-moya. I pray on this day of memories to speak to my father, the one whom the wind called Kolopak. Though I am far from his bones, perhaps there is a spirit in these unnamed skies who will find him and honor him with my song. A-koo-chee-moya.

[Kazon bridge]
HALIZ: There. You see?
RAZIK: We should teach them the price of displaying their markings in our space.
HALIZ: I'll go.
RAZIK: Let Kar do it this time.
HALIZ: He's not ready.
RAZIK: He thinks he is. He's been demanding a chance for weeks to earn his name.
HALIZ: Do you really believe he could do this?
RAZIK: Can you honestly say you knew you were ready for your first mission, Haliz? Tell him. Tell him today is the day he will finally be called Ogla.

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: Computer, report.
COMPUTER: The shuttlecraft has sustained phaser fire. Minor damage to aft shields.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
COMPUTER: A Kazon spacecraft closing at one nine five mark six.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, open a channel to the Kazon vessel. This is Commander Chakotay of the Federation Starship Voyager. Why have you fired on me?
KAR (screen): You are in Kazon-Ogla space, Federation.
CHAKOTAY: I wasn't aware of that. I have no hostile intentions. Power down your weapons and I'll leave.
KAR (screen): No one who violates Ogla space leaves.
CHAKOTAY: Look, son, my starship is only a few light years away.
KAR: I am not your son, Federation. I am your executioner.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Kazon vessel. Listen carefully. I do not want a fight. Stand down or I'll be forced to return fire.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Kazon vessel. I've established a direct weapons lock on your engine core. This is my final warning. If you don't stand down, I will destroy your ship.
CHAKOTAY: All right, if that's the way you want to play it.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Kazon vessel. Do you read me? Computer, are there any life signs inside the Kazon vessel?
COMPUTER: Affirmative. One life sign.
CHAKOTAY: Kazon ship, your engine core is critical. You have less than thirty seconds to evacuate. Do you read me? If you have an escape pod, you must eject now. Computer, establish a transporter lock on the lifeform.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Targeting scanners.
CHAKOTAY: Prepare to beam him aboard.
COMPUTER: Scanners locked.
CHAKOTAY: Energize.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. Chakotay to Voyager. Computer, damage report.
COMPUTER: Long-range communications, lateral sensor array and aft shields are offline.
CHAKOTAY: Great! Welcome aboard.

[Ready room]
NEELIX: It's not that I feel that I'm not making contributions as chef and morale officer.
JANEWAY: You're making significant contributions, Neelix.
NEELIX: Well, if you insist, but
JANEWAY: I can't imagine how Lieutenant Ayala would be handling the separation from his children without you.
NEELIX: He misses his boys terribly. I wish I could do more for him.
JANEWAY: And your meals are getting to be
NEELIX: Yes?
JANEWAY: Almost certainly a highlight of every day.
NEELIX: Oh, Captain. You always know how to touch one's heart. Thank you. When I signed on, I promised you that, I promised you that I would stand by your side through every danger this quadrant has to offer, as guide, as strategist, as explorer, as adventurer.
JANEWAY: Yes?
NEELIX: I feel underutilized. I can swashbuckle with the best of them.
JANEWAY: You weren't invited to the holodeck defense simulations, were you?
NEELIX: No.
TUVOK (voiceover): Captain, you are needed on the bridge.
JANEWAY: On my way. I'll see to it you're invited next time. And now, Mister Neelix, please, join me on the bridge.
NEELIX: Yes, sir. Ma'am. Captain.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: We are ready to depart. However, Commander Chakotay has still not returned.
JANEWAY: Have you tried hailing him?
KIM: On all frequencies. No response.
JANEWAY: When was the last time we heard from him?
TUVOK: More than six hours ago.
JANEWAY: Well, according to his flight plan, he's not far. We'll just have to go get him. I want all away teams back on board now. Mister Paris, plot a course for Chakotay's last known coordinates.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.

[Shuttlecraft]
KAR: What am I doing here?
CHAKOTAY: You're welcome.
KAR: What?
CHAKOTAY: It's a human expression. You thank me for saving your life, I say, you're welcome. I accept your surrender. Look, I promise you, as soon as we get back to Voyager, we'll find a Kazon ship and hand you over to them.
KAR: You should've let me die.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not in the habit of killing children.
COMPUTER: Warning. Alien vessel approaching at zero two two mark eight.
CHAKOTAY: What's your name, son?
KAR: What?
CHAKOTAY: Your name.
KAR: Why do you want to know my name?
CHAKOTAY: I want to let them know you're on board.
KAR: I'm called Kar.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, open a channel. Kazon vessel, I have a young man on board you might know. He goes by the name of Kar. I'd say he's about thirteen. I'd like to arrange for his transfer before I return to my ship. Computer, confirm channel is open.
COMPUTER: Confirmed. Transmission has been received.
CHAKOTAY: Talk to them. Tell them you're okay.
COMPUTER: Warning. Kazon vessel has engaged a tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: Full reverse.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Tractor force exceeds available engine power.
CHAKOTAY: They're pulling us in.
KAR: Kill me. Please.
CHAKOTAY: Why are you so eager for me to kill you?
KAR: Because there are worse things than being killed by your enemy.

[Kazon trophy room]
CHAKOTAY: Look. If you check your long-range sensors, you'll find a big ship out there. It's called Voyager, and by now it's on its way to find me.
HALIZ: Kar, I told Razik you weren't ready.
CHAKOTAY: I have a fair idea why I'm here, but why are they doing this to you?
KAR: I was ready, Haliz, ready to kill or die. I felt the flames touch my skin.
HALIZ: Go back in, Kar.
KAR: It was this fool, this Federation, who doesn't even have the courage to kill his enemies. He pulled me out with that transporter we've heard about. Like the Nistrim and the Relora before you, you come into our space, showing off your uniforms and displaying the markings of your Federation with no respect, as if you own this part of space. But it belongs to us! I tried to kill him, Haliz.
KAR: I want to see Razik. Tell Razik I demand to see him.
CHAKOTAY: Who's Razik? You tell this Razik that Federation Commander Chakotay demands to see him.
KAR: What are you doing?
CHAKOTAY: Razik is obviously your leader. I'm hoping if he's strong enough to be in command, he's wise enough to listen to reason.
KAR: You see this? This is debris from a Nistrim frigate. The man you are demanding to see destroyed it, killing more than one hundred in a single shot. Before that, his name was only Ra. Now he is called Jal Razik. And this tunic belonged to a Relora warrior. He was killed by the bare hands of another Ogla, called only Hali. Now that man is called Jal Haliz, one of our greatest fighters. And this bracelet belonged to the man who killed my brother, my brother, Jal Kanal, who earned his Ogla name by dying bravely in battle. But I, I will never earn my name in life or in death, and I have you to thank for that.

[Bridge]
PARIS: We're approaching Chakotay's last known coordinates, Captain.
JANEWAY: All stop. Full sensor scan, Mister Kim.
KIM: Picking up floating debris composed of duranium, magnesite and electroceramics. Also heavy traces of carbon residue.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. Prepare to receive debris samples for analysis.
TORRES (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
KIM: Transport complete.
TUVOK: Captain, I am detecting an ion trail leading away from this location.
JANEWAY: Chakotay's shuttle.
TUVOK: The signature of the radiation is not consistent with Federation propulsion systems.
PARIS: So what are we saying here? That someone blew up Chakotay's shuttle and then took off?
JANEWAY: That's speculation, Mister Paris, but that trail's the only clue we have to Chakotay's whereabouts.
PARIS: Laying in a course.
JANEWAY: Engage.

[Kazon trophy room]
RAZIK: Hello, Kar. I never thought I would see you like this.
KAR: It was not my fault. It was his technology!
RAZIK: Don't make excuses, Kar. An Ogla has no room for excuses.
KAR: No. No excuses.
RAZIK: I forgive you. Know that in your heart.
KAR: No. Please.
RAZIK: You will eat at my right hand tonight. Why did you save him? It's a very ineffective way of waging war.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not at war with you.
RAZIK: I wish I could say the same.
CHAKOTAY: We're not familiar with this part of space. If I'd seen a map identifying this as Kazon-Ogla territory, I wouldn't have been anywhere near it.
RAZIK: Unfortunately, our territorial claims change every day. Maps do not serve us well. You did him a great disservice, you know.
CHAKOTAY: I guess if he had killed me, my uniform would've made you all a fine trophy.
RAZIK: Your uniform may yet decorate our wall. You may not think you're at war with us, Federation Commander Chakotay, but everything you are is a threat to us. The Kazon fought long and hard for their independence from uniforms like yours.
CHAKOTAY: Uniforms maybe, but not like mine.
RAZIK: Your uniforms, your laws, your technology. You are not welcome here. Get him something to eat. The execution is tonight.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Well?
TORRES: Most of the debris we've examined is composed of a polyduranide alloy which isn't used in the construction of Federation spacecraft.
JANEWAY: So it wasn't Chakotay's shuttle that was destroyed?
TORRES: This ship was Kazon.

[Kazon trophy room]
CHAKOTAY: You get them involved young, Haliz.
HALIZ: As soon as they're old enough to protect their younger siblings.
CHAKOTAY: So they brought you here to see your first human. Take a good look. You won't see any hate in my eyes. I'm a gentle man from a gentle people who wish you no harm.
RAZIK: That's enough!
CHAKOTAY: I know you'd like them to hate me, Razik, but I want their first impression of humans to be a good one.
RAZIK: You've been brought here to learn what it means to be a Kazon male. You all know Kar. You've learned to fight together, haven't you? Kar was sent to kill this man to earn his Ogla name. But Kar failed, and will not earn his name even in death. Who would be willing to kill the human?
RAZIK: So much for first impressions, Federation. I'm proud of you. Each will get your chance someday. But that's not what we're here for today. We are here to learn the price of failure in battle. Razik holds the weapon out to Chakotay.)
RAZIK: Take it.
CHAKOTAY: What for?
RAZIK: So that you can kill Kar, as you should have done in battle.
CHAKOTAY: You want me to kill a child in front of other children? What would it accomplish?
RAZIK: It will teach these little boys an important lesson. And after you do that, you'll be free to go. You may think I want your friend Kar to die but you'd be wrong. I've seen too many Ogla die at the hands of our enemies. That is why you must learn there are no second chances in battle. That is why Kar must die.
CHAKOTAY: If I refuse?
CHAKOTAY: I'll be needing my shuttle back.
HALIZ: Do you really think you can escape us in that little vessel of yours?
CHAKOTAY: That's a chance I'm willing to take. What about you?
RAZIK: Let the coward run. Prepare his shuttle.
CHAKOTAY: Want to come? There doesn't seem to be much of a future for you here.
HALIZ: He'd rather die than run like a Calogan dog with you, Federation.
KAR: If I stay here, I'll die without a name. And Razik taught me only cowards die without a name.
RAZIK: You won't find your name running after the Federation, Kar.
KAR: Maybe not, but that's a chance I'm willing to take. I'll show you how to disable the weapons systems.

[Shuttlecraft]
KAR: Will Razik be all right?
CHAKOTAY: Don't worry, he's only stunned.
CHAKOTAY: It didn't take them long to get those weapons back online, did it? Computer, prepare to go to warp.
KAR: No! Their ship is much clumsier at lower speeds. We should try to outmaneuver them.
CHAKOTAY: You're the boss. Initiate evasive pattern theta two. Full impulse.
KAR: I can give you the shield frequencies of their ship. We can hit them back easily.
CHAKOTAY: It may mean something to you to die a violent death, but I'd like to get out of this without killing or being killed.
KAR: You'd rather die in your sleep a wrinkled old man?
CHAKOTAY: Sounds about right. Computer, damage report.
COMPUTER: Aft shields at sixty three percent.
CHAKOTAY: We're not going to make it like this. Computer, scan for an M-class atmosphere.
COMPUTER: There is an M-class moon at bearing one zero eight mark one eight. Distance, one point nine million kilometers.
KAR: That's Tarok, where the Ogla conduct training exercises.
CHAKOTAY: Anybody training there now? Computer, lay in a course to the moon. Evasive pattern omega one. Maximum impulse.
COMPUTER: Warning. Aft shields have been penetrated. Hull breach is imminent.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, prepare for long-range transport. Two to beam to the surface.
COMPUTER: Transport is not recommended. The moon is out of safety range.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, the ion trail is beginning to dissipate.
JANEWAY: All stop.
KIM: I'm picking up debris again. More duranium, magnesite, carbon residue. It's the remnants of another ship.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. Lieutenant Torres, prepare to receive another debris sample.
TORRES (voiceover): Acknowledged.
KIM: Transport under way.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Torres to Bridge. Sample received.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Let me know when you've got something, B'Elanna.
TORRES: I've got something

[Bridge]
TORRES: Right now. It's a piece of Chakotay's shuttle.

[Tarok]
CHAKOTAY: Kar.
KAR: It worked?
CHAKOTAY: The computer said that transport wasn't recommended. It didn't say it was impossible. With any luck, Razik will think we didn't survive the explosion. Then maybe you'll get your name for dying in battle.
KAR: In battle? That wasn't a battle. We didn't even shoot back. And now I'm stranded here with you.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, you're stranded here with me, and I'm stranded here with you, because for some reason that escapes me at the moment, I keep saving your life. Now, if you want to hate me for that, fine. But I'd really appreciate it if you kept it to yourself.
KAR: You don't
CHAKOTAY: To yourself! First thing we've got to do is find some shelter and get out of this heat. Any suggestions?
CHAKOTAY: I think we're finally beginning to understand each other.
KAR: You don't know what you're doing.
CHAKOTAY: What did I just say?
KAR: Get down.
CHAKOTAY: What the hell was that?
KAR: A proton beam. They're hidden everywhere, along with biomagnetic traps and disruptor snares.
CHAKOTAY: Charming.
KAR: I told you, the Ogla train on this moon. I was here myself last year with Razik.
CHAKOTAY: So I guess you know your way around.
KAR: I know that you're in my territory. And if you want to live to become that wrinkled old man, you're going to have to do what I say.
CHAKOTAY: Well, it looks like you just saved my life. Twice more and we'll be even.

[Briefing room]
EMH (screen): I finished analyzing the shuttle debris, and I found no evidence of human remains.
JANEWAY: Then it's possible Chakotay wasn't killed in the explosion.
EMH (screen): That is correct.
JANEWAY: That's the first good news I've heard all day. Thank you, Doctor.
EMH (screen): My pleasure. Now, would you mind having someone transport this junk to the Cargo Bay? It's cluttering up my lab.
JANEWAY: Of course, Doctor. All right, then. If Commander Chakotay wasn't in the shuttle, where is he?
TUVOK: From the dispersal pattern of the debris, we've been able to extrapolate Chakotay's course prior to the explosion. It appears he was heading for an M-class moon in this system.
KIM: And we found a residual energy displacement within the debris field that isn't consistent with the explosion itself.
JANEWAY: You think he may have transported to that moon?
TUVOK: We tried to scan the surface, but there is intense radiothermic interference.
JANEWAY: Radiothermic?
TORRES: It appears to be coming from subterranean energy sources, several carefully concealed weapons systems, phaser banks, force fields, proton dischargers
KES: Kazon. When they captured me, I saw how they concealed their weaponry.
NEELIX: I believe you call them booby traps.
JANEWAY: Then this moon is some kind of Kazon fortification?
KES: Or it may simply be a training site.
NEELIX: For the Kazon, live ammunition is a very effective teaching tool.
JANEWAY: In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I choose to believe Chakotay made it to that moon. Mister Kim, see if you can determine the most probable location he would have beamed to. Lieutenant, you and I will lead the away team.
TUVOK: As you wish, Captain, but I must point out that due to radiothermic interference, we will not be able to communicate with the ship.
TORRES: I'm already working on a dampening field to cut through the interference, but it'll take several hours at least.
JANEWAY: I don't want to wait that long, but keep trying. Neelix, Kes, you're our two Kazon experts. Kes, you'll come with Tuvok and me. Neelix, you said you wanted more to do? Well, now's your chance. I want you on the bridge with Mister Paris in case we run into any Kazon ships.
NEELIX: Don't worry, Captain. You can count on me to keep those nefarious Kazon at bay.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.

[Cave]
KAR: What are you doing?
CHAKOTAY: I'm setting my tricorder to emit a homing signal.
KAR: What for?
CHAKOTAY: So when my people show up, they'll know where to look for me.
KAR: They won't come. They'll think you're dead.
CHAKOTAY: They're very persistent. I'm betting they haven't given up on me.
KAR: Maybe I should kill you, and steal your technology and deliver it to my people. Then they'd have to give me my name.
CHAKOTAY: You just won't give up, will you?
KAR: You won't stop me from earning my name, Federation.
CHAKOTAY: Not Federation. Chakotay. That's my name.
KAR: Did you have to earn it?
CHAKOTAY: No, not exactly.
KAR: Then your name means nothing.
CHAKOTAY: My name was a gift from my tribe. I cherish it every day of my life, just as I cherish the Federation uniform.
KAR: I should respect you because you wear that uniform?
CHAKOTAY: Your name, my uniform. Not much difference. We both have to earn them.
KAR: What did you have to do to earn your uniform?
CHAKOTAY: Study. Years of study. Learning about science and ships and navigation.
KAR: I suppose they don't expect you to prove your battle skills.
CHAKOTAY: No. They prepared us to defend ourselves in battle. They prepared us very well. And we had to pass many difficult tests before we were given the right to wear the uniform.
KAR: You're saying that my name and your uniform mean the same thing, but you're wrong.
CHAKOTAY: Why? What's so different about us, aside from the fact that I keep saving your life and you keep threatening to kill me?
KAR: I must protect my territory. Territory is power.
CHAKOTAY: Let me tell you something. I have no interest in your territory or anybody else's. My people taught me a man does not own land. He doesn't own anything but the courage and loyalty in his heart. That's where my power comes from. I think we both could use some sleep, don't you?

[Bridge]
KIM: I've got a Kazon raider approaching at bearing two eight eight mark nine.
PARIS: On screen. Open a channel. I'm Lieutenant Tom Paris of the Starship Voyager.
RAZIK (screen): Jal Razik, First Maje of the Kazon-Ogla. I will speak to your captain.
PARIS: I'm in command right now, so you can speak to me.
RAZIK (screen): You are trespassing in Ogla space. Why do you orbit our moon?
PARIS: Just stopped to make a few repairs. We'll be on our way in no time.
RAZIK (screen): That is a lie. You are here looking for your Commander Chakotay.
PARIS: Now, how would you know about that?
RAZIK (screen): Quite simply. We killed him.
PARIS: Under what circumstances?
RAZIK (screen): He kidnapped a young man. During his escape, it became necessary to destroy his ship. No doubt you found the remains, so I suggest you depart immediately.
PARIS: Thanks for the advice.
NEELIX: What a most unusual offer. A Kazon-Ogla Maje allowing a trespasser to leave his space unharmed. What would the other Kazons say about this new merciful attitude of the Ogla?
RAZIK (screen): Don't tempt me, Talaxian. I would just as soon open fire.
NEELIX: Would you?
PARIS: Neelix.
NEELIX: No, I don't think so. That would attract every rival Kazon sect to your secret training base, wouldn't it? Now, I know your ships, Maje. I even sold a few Plaxan sensors to the Ogla a few years back. I have no doubt that you read the same life signs on that moon that we have.
HALIZ (screen): Perhaps one of those life signs belongs to your captain.
RAZIK (screen): If you've detected the extensive weaponry deployed on the moon, know this. With one remote command, I can cause that weaponry to self-destruct, destroying the surface of the moon and everyone on it.
NEELIX: Neither of us wants that, do we? Think of the cost of replacing all those weapons. Awfully hard to come by in this region. And it would make you so vulnerable to your enemies.
PARIS: We'll leave as soon as we've retrieved our crewmen, all of them, including Chakotay, if he's alive. And if one of your people is with him, he'll be returned to you.
KIM: They're moving into a lower orbit. Looks like they're intending to enter the atmosphere.
PARIS: I need communication with the surface, B'Elanna, and soon.
TORRES: I still haven't been able to get the dampening field working. I can't even give you an estimate.
KIM: Shall we take Voyager down?
PARIS: I've already run a soil analysis. The surface won't support a landing.
TORRES: Then I guess the Captain's going to be greeted by some unexpected visitors.
NEELIX: At least we bought her some time.

[Cave]
CHAKOTAY: Good morning. How did you sleep?
KAR: Fine.
CHAKOTAY: Really? You seemed a little restless to me.
KAR: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: All that skulking around, throwing things.
KAR: You were awake?
CHAKOTAY: You think I'm going to get much sleep around an Ogla warrior who's threatened to kill me? Why didn't you go through with it?
KAR: I am a coward.
CHAKOTAY: I don't believe that. I don't believe you do either. I think maybe you're beginning to realize I'm not your enemy, and only a fool would kill a friend.
KAR: If you are my friend, then you're my only one. What happens to me now? Where do I go?
CHAKOTAY: Would any other Kazon sect accept you?
KAR: I would be a goven, an outcast. Each Kazon sect I meet would cut one digit off, and send me away.
CHAKOTAY: How many Kazon sects are there?
KAR: It changes every day. Yesterday there were eighteen.
CHAKOTAY: I guess you could come with us.
KAR: To do what, dress in a uniform?
CHAKOTAY: You wouldn't have to wear a uniform.
KAR: And the closer you get to your home, the farther I would be from mine. If only you had killed me.

[Tarok]
TUVOK: Captain, four life forms approaching. Forty meters. They appear to be Kazon.
RAZIK: Please, put your weapons away. We've come to help you.
JANEWAY: Help us? With what?
RAZIK: We made contact with your ship and learned of the plight of your missing crewman. We've come to offer our assistance in finding him.
JANEWAY: That's very kind of you.
RAZIK: You're walking on very dangerous ground. There are concealed weapons everywhere. Come. We will lead you through them.
JANEWAY: Very well.

[Cave]
CHAKOTAY: Tell me about the other uniforms, the ones the Kazon fought.
KAR: The Trabe. The Kazon shared their homeworld, if you can call it sharing. They had everything, we had nothing, until we took it from them in the revolt, twenty six years ago.
KAR: What is it?
CHAKOTAY: People coming this way, humans and Kazon.
KAR: What are we going to do?
CHAKOTAY: There's only one way back to the Ogla for you, and that's if you earn your name. So I guess that's what you'll have to do.
KAR: But how?
CHAKOTAY: You're going to have to kill me.

[Tarok]
TUVOK: The signal seems to be coming from some caves approximately forty meters ahead.
RAZIK: Your technology continues to amaze us. It would have taken us weeks to track them. After this is over, we have to discuss an alliance.
JANEWAY: I would welcome your friendship, Maje.
KES: Captain Janeway, I'm reading elevated radiothermic levels here.
RAZIK: The Ocampa female is correct. This is a particularly dangerous place. We lose many trainees here. Perhaps you would prefer if we proceeded alone. They can't be far now.
JANEWAY: Thanks, but I think we'll stick together.
PARIS (voiceover): Voyager to Away team.
JANEWAY: We're here, Mister Paris.

[Bridge]
PARIS: We finally broke through the interference, Captain. Are you all right?

[Tarok]
PARIS (voiceover): We had a run-in
JANEWAY: Everything is fine. We have the assistance of the Ogla.

[Bridge]
PARIS: That's what I was going to tell you to expect.

[Tarok]
JANEWAY: Can you lock onto Commander Chakotay?
PARIS (voiceover): Stand by.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Voyager to Chakotay. Do you read?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I'm fine, Paris.
PARIS: Stand by for us to beam you out of there.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Belay that, Voyager. Stand by.

[Cave]
CHAKOTAY: According to my readings, the away team's only fifty meters away.
PARIS (voiceover): Right, but don't
CHAKOTAY: And alert Sickbay to prepare for a code white resuscitation.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Did you say code white?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Correct.

[Cave]
CHAKOTAY: I don't have time to explain now.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay out.

[Cave]
CHAKOTAY: It'll be all right. Our technology can revive me even if I'm brain dead for two minutes.
KAR: Why are you doing this?
CHAKOTAY: Like you said, it's my fault you don't have your name. I can't leave you behind like this.

[Tarok]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Away team.
JANEWAY: Good to hear your voice, Commander.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain, proceed with caution. I've been taken prisoner by a young Kazon. He's threatening to kill me.
HALIZ: This way. It's safer.
TUVOK: I would beg to differ. Based on these readings, that way would seem the logical choice.
RAZIK: I must apologize for my comrade. I believe he's trying to mislead you.
RAZIK: So, your technology is not always an ally. Sometimes it betrays you. Pity. I'm afraid you would not score well in our training exercises.
JANEWAY: Away team to Voyager.
KES: Captain, that panel is a micro-generator.
JANEWAY: You're right. If we can get a narrow beam through the field, we can disable it.
TUVOK: We could try remodulating the phasers to a higher frequency output.
JANEWAY: Make it fast.

[Cave]
KAR: I've been waiting for you, Razik.
RAZIK: So, the Federation Commander is your prisoner.
KAR: I only came with him so I could have another chance to kill him.
RAZIK: So you could earn your name.
KAR: That's what I've been hoping for, Razik. But you taught me well. I know what you're going to say. You've said it so many times before. In battle, there are no second chances.
KAR: But you are not my enemy, he is.
KAR: My name is Jal Karden, Kazon-Ogla. You are First Maje now, Haliz. My life is yours. Kill me if you wish, or let me live and I will follow you into battle whenever you command.
HALIZ: Jal Karden, Kazon-Ogla.
KAZONS: Kazon-Ogla.
KAR: The Federation does not belong here. If we meet again, I will not hesitate to kill you.
CHAKOTAY: I understand.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Voyager. Five to beam up.

[Chakotay's quarters]
CHAKOTAY: A-koo-chee-moya. I pray on this day of memories to speak to my father, the one whom the wind called Kolopak. Father, if you can hear me among these unnamed stars, I ask you to continue to watch over me as you've always done. I ask you also to watch over a boy called Karden, who has a difficult path to travel. A-koo-chee-moya.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency. Hello? Computer, who activated the Emergency Medical Holographic program?
COMPUTER: Auto-initiation of the EMH program occurred when a ship-wide Red alert was initiated.
EMH: Emergency? Sickbay to bridge. Captain Janeway, please respond.
COMPUTER: Captain Janeway is not on board the ship.
EMH: Well then, who's in command?
COMPUTER: Internal scans indicate no crew members are on board.
EMH: You mean the ship's empty?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
EMH: What is the crew's status?
COMPUTER: Unknown.
EMH: Did they go on shore leave? Are they dead? What?
COMPUTER: That information is not available.
EMH: Can you give me a ship's status report?
COMPUTER: Affirmative. Warp core is offline. The ship is restricted to emergency power and auxiliary systems only. Structural integrity breach on deck six, deck seven and deck twelve. Deflector shields inoperative. Weapons array offline. Communications offline. Sewage and waste reclamation offline.
EMH: Okay, I get the idea. What caused this damage?
COMPUTER: That information is not available.
EMH: Of course it isn't.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Computer, transfer all bridge logs to this station.
COMPUTER: Accessing bridge logs.
EMH: Replay last log entry.
JANEWAY (screen): heavy casualties. The warp core is going critical and the ejection system is offline. I've ordered all personnel to abandon ship. Lieutenant Torres and I
EMH: Computer, have any escape pods been ejected?
COMPUTER: All escape pods were launched at twenty one hundred hours.
EMH: Scan the ship for any humanoid life forms.
COMPUTER: There are no humanoid life forms aboard this vessel.
EMH: Well, I'm glad everyone bothered to say goodbye. Chief Medical Officers log, stardate 48892.1. It appears that Voyager has suffered a disaster. What kind I don't know, but one thing is clear. The crew was forced to abandon ship. It would therefore seem that my usefulness has come to an end. I am terminating my program. If anyone finds this log, I can be re-activated by
EMH: Hello?

[Sickbay]
EMH: Hello?
TORRES: Doctor! What are you doing?
EMH: Sorry, I wasn't expecting a member of the crew. The computer said everyone had left.
TORRES: The internal sensors were damaged during the attack. They must not be reading every life sign on the ship.
EMH: Attack?
TORRES: The Kazon. Two of their Predator class warships took us by surprise, hit us with a volley of plasma torpedoes. It started a core breach and we had to abandon ship. The Captain and I stayed behind to see if we could stop the breach. At the last second we did.
EMH: Why didn't the crew return to the ship?
TORRES: Because they couldn't. The Kazon tractored all of the life pods onto their ships. They went into warp before we could stop them. What's wrong?
EMH: This tricorder isn't registering your life signs. This one isn't working either.
TORRES: You've got to help the Captain. She was hit by a falling support beam. I didn't want to risk moving her so I had to leave her on the bridge.
EMH: Can't we beam her to Sickbay?
TORRES: The transporters are down. So are the turbolifts. I had to crawl through thirty one Jefferies tubes on five decks just to get here.
EMH: Then you're going to have to go back up there with a medical kit. I'll instruct you on how to treat her.
TORRES: You don't understand, Doctor. I'm not going, you are. I'm sending you to the bridge.
EMH: That would be ideal, if it were possible, but my projection system is limited to the Sickbay and the holodecks.
TORRES: Not any more. For the past few weeks we've been setting up holographic emitters on critical decks. We were hoping to set up a remote holo-projection system, give you access to other parts of the ship.
EMH: Why wasn't I told about this?
TORRES: We hadn't even tested the system yet. There was no guarantee it was going to work. I guess the Captain didn't want to get your hopes up.
EMH: Her compassion is heart-warming. The next time I'd rather be kept informed. Where are these remote projectors?
TORRES: Decks one through five. We also put them in Engineering, the Mess hall and the cargo bay. All the projectors are in place but the problem is we're going to have to interface with the Sickbay imaging system. That's going to take a lot of power and computer memory. I don't know if we have enough reserve power to spare.
EMH: Most of the crew is gone. Could we divert power from life support systems?
TORRES: Good idea. I can drop life support down to minimum levels on the lower decks. That should give us enough power. All right, I'll need another twenty minutes to get the projectors online.
TORRES: All right, the remote projectors are charged and ready to go. Imaging interface stable. Are you ready to try this?
EMH: I assume there's still an emergency medical kit behind the tactical console?
TORRES: That's right.
EMH: Then I'm ready.
TORRES: There are a couple of things you should know. In order to do this I had to recalibrate your containment field, so your holo-matrix will be very sensitive to disruption. Try to stay away from energy discharges. Phaser fire, forcefields, that sort of thing.
EMH: I'll try.
TORRES: Make sure you do, because if your containment field collapses it'll take hours to re-initialize your program.
EMH: Understood.
TORRES: I'm going to head down to engineering and try and get some of the critical systems working. You'll hear from me when I get the comm. system back online. Unless, of course, this doesn't work, in which case I'll see you in about five seconds. Good luck, Doctor.
EMH: Thank you. I have a feeling I'll need it.

[Bridge]
EMH: Well, It's bigger than I thought.
EMH: Captain?
EMH: Hello, Captain. You're going to be fine.
JANEWAY: Oh, Doctor. I see the new holoprojectors are working.
EMH: Lieutenant Torres was able to get them online. Are you feeling any pain, dizziness, nausea?
JANEWAY: I'm a little disoriented and I have one hell of a headache.
EMH: For some reason none of the tricorders are working, but from what I can tell you have a concussion. I'd like to get you to Sickbay as soon as possible.
JANEWAY: The last thing I remember is launching the escape pods. Lieutenant Torres and I were trying to stop the core breach, and then I blacked out.
EMH: You were successful in preventing the breach.
JANEWAY: And the crew?
EMH: They were taken prisoner by the Kazon.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to bridge, can you hear me?
JANEWAY: Yes, Lieutenant, we hear you. Go ahead.
TORRES (voiceover): Are you all right, Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm fine. I'm glad you convinced the Doctor to make a house call. What's our status?
TORRES (voiceover): I've got communications back online and I think I can re-activate the warp core, but it'll mean recrystallizing the entire dilithium matrix.
JANEWAY: Keep on it. In the meantime I'll see if I can restore the bridge controls and start scanning for the Kazon ships.
TORRES (voiceover): Aye, Captain. Torres out.
JANEWAY: Doctor, do you know anything about bypassing a power relay?
EMH: Is it anything like a coronary bypass?
JANEWAY: Actually, it is. Give me a hand. See this conduit? It's a power relay. It's circuits are burnt out. What we need to do is reconfigure the
NEELIX (voiceover): Neelix to bridge. Is anyone there? Emergency!
JANEWAY: Neelix, this is the Captain. What's wrong?
NEELIX (voiceover): Help. I need help! I'm in the mess hall. There's a
JANEWAY: Neelix, are you there? Neelix? With the turbolifts down it'll take me a half hour to get there. Doctor, it's up to you. I'll use the remote projectors to send you to the Mess hall. Stand by for transfer.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: I hope that crushed your skull, Kazon pus hog.
EMH: Kazon!
NEELIX: What's it like to stare death in the face, Kazon?
NEELIX: Missed me!
NEELIX: I suggest you surrender now, Kazon. The Captain's on her way!
NEELIX: Want some more, you needle-snake?
NEELIX: My best sauté pan. Good work, Doctor.
EMH: You're injured.
NEELIX: Ahhh! What's wrong? Is it serious?
EMH: Don't panic, Mister Neelix. It looks superficial.
NEELIX: Am I going to die?
EMH: Not unless you're allergic to tomatoes. That isn't blood, it's some kind of sauce.
NEELIX: Nondoran tomato paste. Oh, that'll leave a nasty stain. What are you doing here, Doctor?
EMH: I could ask you the same thing.
NEELIX: Kes and I were on our way to the escape pod when this Kazon fungus came crawling out of an access hatch. I kept him occupied long enough for Kes to get away but he didn't give up so easily. So I took off running, he chased me and I led him here. No one gets the best of me in my kitchen! I'm fine now. The question is, are you?
EMH: Me?
NEELIX: You're bleeding.
EMH: Bleeding? That's impossible.
NEELIX: Don't panic, Doctor. It looks superficial.
EMH: I'm not programmed to bleed.
NEELIX: Maybe you should check your program.
EMH: Emergency Medical Hologram to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead Doctor.
EMH: Captain, we've captured a Kazon. He's been rendered unconscious and Mister Neelix is fine. But I believe my program is malfunctioning. I request that you return me to sickbay immediately.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Acknowledged. Mr Neelix, keep an eye on the Kazon until I get there. I'm on my way.
NEELIX: No problem, Captain.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Pain? I'm not programmed to feel pain.
EMH: Heart rate, blood pressure, brain patterns? Computer, analyze Emergency Medical Holographic program. Has it been altered in any way to include life signs?
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Requested program is not on file.
EMH: Not on file? The program's running right now! Display schematics for all Sickbay holographic systems.
COMPUTER: No holographic systems exist in Sickbay.
EMH: EMH program A K one diagnostic and surgical subroutine omega three two three. Check the database and you'll find it!
COMPUTER: Specified program does not exist.
EMH: Well, then, who is the Chief Medical Officer on board this ship?
COMPUTER: The Chief Medical Officer of USS Voyager is Doctor Louis Zimmerman.
EMH: Louis Zimmerman? Yes. He was the engineer who created my program. I understand he resembles me but, he's not on Voyager! He's at the Jupiter Station Holo-Programming Center. Computer, how long has Doctor Zimmerman served on Voyager?
COMPUTER: Doctor Zimmerman commenced duty on stardate 48308.2
EMH: 48308. That's the date I was activated. Computer, display all Starfleet records on Doctor Lewis Zimmerman.
EMH: He looks a lot like me. In fact, he looks exactly like me. Computer, is this me?
COMPUTER: Affirmative. Doctor Lewis Zimmerman.
JANEWAY: Doctor, we've almost got the warp core back online, but we need to know where the crew was taken. I want you to perform an ARA scan on the Kazon while we question him. Is something wrong?
EMH: Something's very wrong. These tricorders aren't picking up any of your life signs. At first I thought they were malfunctioning, but now I find they show me to be a living, breathing, bleeding human being.
JANEWAY: What?
EMH: And that's not all. According to the computer, I'm not a hologram. I'm a real person named Zimmerman. I've been trying to analyze my program but the computer says it doesn't exist.
JANEWAY: This could be a problem with the remote projectors. The multiple holographic signals may be confusing the computer. I'm going to deactivate you and then re-initialize your program parameters. Computer, discontinue Emergency Medical Holographic system.
EMH: See what I mean?
JANEWAY: You're right. Your program's not anywhere on file. Computer, shut down all holographic systems throughout the ship.
EMH: Computer, what happened to Captain Janeway, Lieutenant Torres, Mister Neelix and the Kazon?
COMPUTER: All holographic simulations were discontinued.
EMH: Simulations? Computer, I'm talking about real people. Locate Captain Janeway.
COMPUTER: Captain Janeway is stored in memory block forty seven alpha.
EMH: List all other programs stored in that memory block. This is the entire Voyager crew. Computer, are you saying that the crew is nothing more than a collection of holographic programs?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
EMH: This is ridiculous. There must be something wrong.
BARCLAY: Doctor, am I glad to see you. Can you see me?
EMH: Of course I can see you. Who are you?
BARCLAY: Sir, it's me. It's Lieutenant Barclay. Reg. Your assistant.
EMH: My assistant's name is Kes. Who are you?
BARCLAY: Uh-oh.
EMH: What?
BARCLAY: Oh, no, this is bad. This is very bad. Don't panic. Let's just try to think our way through this.
EMH: I'm not familiar with you. Are you a member of the Voyager crew or have we encountered another Federation ship?
BARCLAY: Oh, boy. The Voyager. Oh, boy. This is going to sound a little crazy from your perspective, but you've got to trust me. None of this is happening. This is all a holographic simulation that you've been running.
EMH: What are you talking about.
BARCLAY: You're in the holodeck at the Jupiter Station. Your name is Doctor Lewis Zimmerman, you're a holo-engineer and you've been running a program that's malfunctioning and we've been trying to reach you.
EMH: What are you saying? That I'm a real person?
BARCLAY: Well, I always used to think of you that way and I know your wife tends to think
EMH: My wife?
BARCLAY: We'd, er, we'd better take this one step at a time.
EMH: Please do.
BARCLAY: Well, you see, this starship, it's not really a starship.

[Doctor's office]
BARCLAY: It was a program that you wrote to study the psychological impact of long term isolation on a crew made up of Starfleet and Maquis crewmembers.
EMH: A program I wrote? That's preposterous. I'm the program. Voyager is a real ship, manned by real people.
BARCLAY: I'm afraid not. This must have something to do with the radiation surge.
EMH: What was that?
BARCLAY: We've been having problems shutting the program down because of a kinoplasmic radiation surge on the station. It's affected all of the computer systems, including the holodecks. The radiation must be affecting the memory centers of your brain.
EMH: How did you get in here?
BARCLAY: I'm not really here. Clearly, I'm here because we're talking. You see, what I mean is, I'm in a control booth outside of the holodeck. What you see is a projection of my body so that we can communicate. We've been trying to get in here, or send a comm. signal in for nearly six hours.
EMH: You expect me to believe that the past six months I've spent on this ship have been nothing but a simulation?
BARCLAY: You haven't been here six months. You've only been here six hours.
EMH: That's impossible! I have very clear memories of my first appearance on Voyager. Meeting Captain Janeway for the first time. I've had numerous experiences aboard this ship.
BARCLAY: That's all part of the simulation.
EMH: How do I know you're not some kind of alien, impersonating a Starfleet officer.
BARCLAY: Look, Doctor, it's very important that you believe me. You're losing your sense of identity. You're starting to think that you're part of the program and that's, that's not good. It's called HTDS. Holo Transference Dementia Syndrome.
EMH: So now I'm having a psychotic episode.
BARCLAY: No. Yes. I mean, maybe the radiation. Doctor, I'm sorry I have to do this.
EMH: How dare you!
BARCLAY: It hurt, right? If you were a program it wouldn't hurt.
EMH: I could be programmed to think it hurt.
BARCLAY: Doctor.
BARCLAY: I'll be back. I've got to discuss this with the others. Don't, don't go anywhere.
EMH: Pain. Pain, why would I have pain? I think I'm hungry. I'm not sure what for, but I'm definitely hungry. This is impossible.
BARCLAY: The problem is worse than we thought. The radiation is disrupting the command protocols. We can't shut the program down, and while the program is running we can't access the holodeck grid.
EMH: Why don't you beam me out of here?
BARCLAY: We tried, but the radiation is interfering with the transporters and we can't get a lock on you. I've consulted with our neurologist, Doctor Kaplin, and he said if we can't get you out of here within the next hour, that the radiation would completely oxidize your neurocellular structures.
EMH: So, what do you suggest?
BARCLAY: There's only one way left to terminate the program, and that's to play it out. Bring it to it's conclusion and once the simulation ends, it'll release the access locks on the holodeck arch and we can get you out of here.
EMH: How does it conclude?
BARCLAY: You programmed two possible outcomes. Either Voyager finds its way back to Federation space, or it's destroyed in the process. But the simulation was designed to run for weeks before either happens. But I know of a way that you can bring it to an end right now. Destroy the ship.
EMH: Destroy the ship? Destroy Voyager?
BARCLAY: This is just a simulation, Lewis. None of this is real. And unless you destroy this ship that you think you're on, you're going to die.
EMH: No. No, absolutely not.
BARCLAY: Doctor, it's the only way.
EMH: First of all, I don't even know how to destroy the ship. Second of all I wouldn't do it even if I could, and third, how do I know you're not an alien intruder trying to trick me into killing everyone?
BARCLAY: Well, those are good questions. First, I can tell you how to destroy the Voyager. Second, if you don't do it, you're going to die. And third. Well, I'm just not an alien and I don't know how else to convince you of that.
EMH: If what you're saying is true, why don't you destroy the ship? Why do I have to do it?
BARCLAY: You are the one running the simulation. It's coded to respond to your input, not mine.
EMH: I'm sorry, Mister Barclay, if that's what your name really is, but you're not very convincing.
BARCLAY: Here, use this tricorder. Scan the room outwards to a distance of fifteen meters.
EMH: This appears to show a wall fifteen meters away and it does have a holodeck grid configuration.
BARCLAY: You see?
EMH: But you could be manipulating these readings.
BARCLAY: Scan me. You'll see I'm a holographic projection originating from beyond that wall.
EMH: Yes, all right. But it could still be an elaborate deception. I can't take that risk.
BARCLAY: There has to be some way to convince you. Oh, I know. I'll be right back.
KIM: Are you the Emergency Medical Hologram?
EMH: Yes, of course I am.
KIM: We've got wounded here.
EMH: I've seen this patient before. He has multiple percussive injuries. Tricorder. Medical tricorder. I've been in this moment in time before.
PARIS: What? What are you talking about? Help this man.
EMH: Have we just been catapulted across the galaxy to an unknown area of the Delta Quadrant?
KIM: Yes.
EMH: And you are developing tumorous growths on your chest.
KIM: What?
EMH: Ah. So that hasn't happened yet. Is this stardate 48308?
PARIS: Look, are you going to help this man or not?
EMH: I'm not. Mister Barclay?
KIM: The program must be malfunctioning. Let me see if I can reset the holographic projector.
EMH: Mister Barclay, will you please return?
BARCLAY: Now do you believe me? This is the beginning of the simulation. We can't shut down the program but we can restart it.
EMH: This is my first memory of being activated on Voyager.
PARIS: Who the hell are you?
EMH: Did I program Mister Paris to be so annoying?
BARCLAY: Actually, I programmed him. I modeled him after my cousin Frank.
EMH: Hmm. Computer, delete Paris.
PARIS: What are you
KIM: What did you do to him?
EMH: Computer, delete Kim. Hmm.
BARCLAY: Are you convinced yet?
EMH: Let's just say your credibility level is rising. But I'm still not prepared to destroy Voyager.
BARCLAY: So what are you going to do now?
EMH: I need to confirm my true nature. Whether or not I am in fact a real person. Let's just say that I'm right and this is a real ship and I am a hologram. If I were to destroy the holographic memory core then I should disappear.
BARCLAY: Yes. But if you destroy it and you're still here
EMH: Then I'm not a hologram.
BARCLAY: And you'll know that I'm telling you the truth.
EMH: The holo-memory core is located in Engineering. Let's go.

[Corridor]
BARCLAY: What's wrong?
EMH: The remote holoprojectors were taken offline. I shouldn't be able to exist outside sickbay?
BARCLAY: That's because you're a
EMH: A real person. Yes. I'm getting the idea.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Magnetic constrictors are online. The warp core is stable. Let's get started on those plasma relays. You, who are you?
EMH: I'm the Emergency Medical Hologram.
JANEWAY: I didn't know you could be projected into Engineering.
EMH: I can't. But it's a long story. I'd rather not get into it right now.
JANEWAY: Fine. We have three wounded crewmembers over here.
EMH: I'm afraid I have a more pressing matter to attend to, Captain.
JANEWAY: What do you mean, you have a more pressing matter to attend to? And who are you? I don't recognize you.
BARCLAY: Oh, don't mind me, I'm just assisting the Doctor.
JANEWAY: Doctor, I am ordering you to take care of these wounded crewmembers.
EMH: Computer, delete Janeway.
BARCLAY: The computer's not responding to vocal commands. The protocols are starting to freeze up. We don't have much time.
JANEWAY: Jarvis, Parsons, put these men under arrest.
BARCLAY: Don't worry, those phasers aren't real, they're just holograms.
EMH: I wouldn't be so sure. I was injured earlier.
BARCLAY: That means the holodeck safeties are off.
EMH: Now, just a moment. Let's not do anything hasty.
JANEWAY: Who are you? Are you two responsible for bringing us here?
EMH: Actually, no. The array you discovered is controlled by an entity you will come to know as the Caretaker. Or Banjo man. He's actually an alien life form who's caring for a species known as the Ocampa who live nearby.
JANEWAY: Enough! I don't know what this is all about, but clearly you're involved. Take them to the brig. I'll question them later.
EMH: No, I don't think so.
JANEWAY: You're in no position to argue.
EMH: I'm not arguing. I'm simply pointing out that in several seconds the entire crew of Voyager will be transported to the array, where you will be tortured and probed for medical information. It will be quite painful, but not fatal.
KIM (voiceover): Bridge to Janeway. We're being scanned by the array, Captain. It's penetrated our shields.
JANEWAY: What kind of scan?
JANEWAY: Bridge. Janeway to Bridge, respond. What are you
BARCLAY: Time is running out, Doctor. The oxidation levels in your neural tissues are rising. You've got to destroy this ship and bring this program to an end.
EMH: First things first. I have to make absolutely sure what I am.
EMH: This is the central memory nexus for all holographic systems on board. If I destroy this, there won't be a single hologram left on Voyager.
BARCLAY: Well, except for me. I'm being projected from outside the simulation. Go ahead, give it a try.
BARCLAY: Convinced?
EMH: Computer, what is the status of the holographic imaging system on Voyager?
COMPUTER: The holographic imaging system has been destroyed.
EMH: Are there any holographic programs running anywhere on the ship?
COMPUTER: Negative.
EMH: Then why is the ship still here, and not a hologrid?
COMPUTER: Please restate the question.
EMH: You said all holo-systems were destroyed. Why is the ship simulation still running?
COMPUTER: All holo-simulations have been terminated.
BARCLAY: Doctor, I know this is a little confusing, but try to remember you just destroyed the holographic imaging system on a holographic ship. A hologram in a hologram. If you want to bring this to an end you've got to destroy the entire simulation. The ship itself.
EMH: Then it's true. I am a real person.
BARCLAY: And you're a person in great danger. Destroy the ship. Now, before it's too late.
EMH: But if I'm wrong?
BARCLAY: Doctor, you've got to believe me. What else can I do to prove it to you?
EMH: I know, I know, but it's just so
BARCLAY: There. Do you see what's happening? Holograms don't feel pain. Your brain is being flooded with kinoplasmic radiation. You're dying.
EMH: I guess you're right. What should I do?
BARCLAY: The warp core. Even set on full power it's going to take a sustained phaser burst to punch through the outer duranium shielding. Set your phaser to maximum. Aim for the magnetic constrictors. Ready?
EMH: Ready.
CHAKOTAY: Stop! Doctor, don't do it! Doctor, don't listen to him. He's lying. Step away from the warp core, Doctor, don't do anything that man tells you. You're in danger if you do. None of this is real.
EMH: So I've been told. It's all a holographic simulation.
CHAKOTAY: That's right. But it's not the simulation you think it is. Everything around you is part of a holographic projection that's being created by your program.
EMH: My program?
CHAKOTAY: You're on the holodeck on Voyager. The Captain suggested you take a day off, try a holonovel, so you did. But while you were running the holonovel, there was a kinoplasmic radiation surge in the imaging system. It created a feedback loop between the holodeck computer and your program. All of this, including Mister Barclay, is a holographic simulation generated by your codes, subroutines and memory circuits.
BARCLAY: Don't be distracted by these holographic characters. Stay focused on what you need to do. Destroy the warp core.
EMH: Wait a minute. The entire crew of Voyager was just taken by the array. They won't be back for three days. So what's he doing here?
BARCLAY: The program is malfunctioning.
EMH: Are you the real Commander Chakotay, or a holographic projection like Mister Barclay.
CHAKOTAY: I'm a projection. I'm really at the holographic control station in Engineering. You're trapped on the holodeck. We've been monitoring the program from here and we've been trying to reach you for hours.
EMH: Sounds familiar. He told me the same thing.
BARCLAY: Doctor, do you remember coming into the holodeck and running a holonovel within the last six hours?
EMH: No. No, I don't.
CHAKOTAY: That's because your memory circuits are being eradicated by the feedback loop. We have to get you off the holodeck, transfer you back to Sickbay.
BARCLAY: You don't have memory circuits, you have a mind, and it's being damaged. Destroy the Voyager, the program will end, and we can get you off the holodeck.
CHAKOTAY: That's not true, Doctor. Because of the feedback loop, if you destroy the simulation, you will be destroyed as well.
EMH: Me?
CHAKOTAY: If you shut down this simulation your program will be wiped out right along with it. There'll be no way to retrieve the lost data. You'll be gone.
BARCLAY: Only real people experience pain. You've got to believe me.
CHAKOTAY: What you're perceiving as pain is really the feedback loop eradicating your memory circuits.
EMH: What, what is it you want me to do?
CHAKOTAY: Don't do anything. We're working on the problem right now. We're close to a solution.
BARCLAY: Do nothing and you'll die.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, trust me.
KES: Trust me, Lewis.
EMH: Kes.
KES: Yes, you know me. You remember me.
EMH: Yes, you're my assistant.
BARCLAY: I told you, his brain is being damaged. He's losing his memory. This is Kes Zimmerman, your wife.
CHAKOTAY: This is all a holographic delusion drawn from people and experiences in your own memory circuits. You are malfunctioning.
KES: Lewis, please, listen to Reg, he's trying to help you. Destroy this program.
CHAKOTAY: If you listen to her, you'll end up destroying yourself.
KES: Believe in yourself. You're not a program, you're a real flesh and blood human being. And you're my husband. I don't want to lose you.
BARCLAY: Lewis, how would you rather think of yourself? As a real person with a real life, with a family that loves you? Or as some hologram that exists in a Sickbay on a starship lost in deep space.
CHAKOTAY: This isn't about what you want. This is about what you are. Just because you're made of projected light and energy doesn't mean you're any less real than someone made of flesh and blood. It doesn't matter what you're made of. What matters is who you are. You're our friend, and we want you back.
KES: Louis, please. Pick up the phaser, destroy the warp core. It's your only hope.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, we're close to getting you out of here. Try to hold on!
KES: What ever happens, I just want you to know, I love you.
EMH: I always wanted to

[Sickbay]
EMH: Tell you, Kes, that you're beautiful.
KES: Thank you.
EMH: What's going on?
TUVOK: We were able to shut down the holodeck simulation that your program was generating. Commander Chakotay transferred you back to Sickbay. You seem to have suffered no damage.
EMH: What really happened?
KIM: Voyager encountered a subspace anomaly which created a kinoplasmic radiation surge throughout most of our computers. Unfortunately it happened while you were using the holodeck.
KES: We've been working for the past six hours to get you out of there.
EMH: So there was never a Kazon attack.
KES: That's right.
EMH: And the crew didn't really abandon ship.
TUVOK: No. In fact, except for the computer problems, it has been an uneventful day.
EMH: And who is this Lieutenant Barclay I imagined.
KIM: Barclay was part of the original engineering team that designed your program. He was in charge of testing your interpersonal skills.
EMH: Well, this should make an interesting paper.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Sickbay. Is the Doctor all right?
TUVOK: Yes, Commander. His program is functioning normally.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Good work. As soon as you're finished there I want all senior officers to report to the bridge.
TUVOK: Acknowledged.
KIM: It's good to have you back, Doctor.
EMH: Well, I suppose I should begin cataloging the neotrianate samples I was working on this morning.
KES: So you really think I'm beautiful?
EMH: I was under a great deal of stress, you understand. I may have said things that are not necessarily my true feelings. Kes. Oh. Then you don't think I'm beautiful.
EMH: I didn't say that, exactly. I consider you very, very attractive. In a platonic sense.
KES: I see. Then you don't really love me.
EMH: I'm afraid not.
KES: Then I guess our marriage is over.
EMH: Our marriage? Are you making a joke?
KES: It isn't a joke to me, Lewis. I know we have problems but I think we can solve them.
EMH: No. No, this can't be right. Something's wrong here.
BARCLAY: It's not too late, Lewis. You can still save yourself by destroying the warp core.
EMH: No! No, I don't believe you. None of this is real. It's all a delusion. Somebody help me!
BARCLAY: I am helping you.
KES: Listen to him, Lewis.
EMH: No!
PARIS: Doctor, are you listening to me? That man needs help!
JANEWAY: Try to calm down, Doctor, everything's going to be fine.

[Holodeck]
JANEWAY: Doctor, do you know who I am? Do you know where you are?
EMH: I appear to be on the holodeck grid.
JANEWAY: That's right. And do you know what you are?
EMH: Yes, I'm the Emergency Medical Holographic program. Right?
JANEWAY: Right.
EMH: Well, I assume everything that's happened took place here on the holodeck.
CHAKOTAY: That's right. We encountered a subspace anomaly and there was a radiation surge in the computer system.
EMH: And Kes is my assistant, not my wife?
CHAKOTAY: Your wife?
EMH: Never mind. Captain, if it's okay, I'd like to return to Sickbay now.
JANEWAY: Of course. It's good to have you back, Doctor.
EMH: It's good to be back.
JANEWAY: Computer, transfer EMH program to Sickbay.

[Doctor's office]
KES: We were married?
EMH: It was a delusion, of course.
KES: I understand. But I'd still prefer it if you didn't tell Neelix about this. He tends to get a little jealous. It'll be our secret.
EMH: I am curious about one thing.
KES: What's that?
EMH: The radiation surge caused my program to malfunction and my codes and circuits began to degrade and yet, instead of detecting that threat to my program, I experienced an elaborate delusion concerning the nature of my existence. Human or hologram. Person or projection. Why? Why would my program focus on such an esoteric dilemma?
KES: Well, I sometimes ask those kind of questions. Who am I? What am I doing here? What's my purpose in life? Doesn't everybody?
EMH: Not me. I know exactly who I am and what my purpose is. I am the Emergency Medical Hologram aboard the starship Voyager.
KES: Are you sure about that?

[Turbolift]
CREWMAN: Oh! Sir. We, er. We're just er.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, I can see that.
PARIS: What was that all about?
CHAKOTAY: I'd call it an example of indiscreet shipboard fraternization.
PARIS: Really? Sorry I missed it.
CHAKOTAY: Deck six.

[Mess Hall]
KES: Thank you for your help, Tom.
PARIS: Yeah. See you later.
KES: Right.

[Kitchen]
KES: Here's the cabbage you asked for. Is something wrong?
NEELIX: What's this?
KES: A spawn beetle. Oh, they cross-pollinate the Oblissian cabbage. Have you ever seen such fascinating striations? Oh, isn't it beautiful?
NEELIX: I doubt the Captain would think so if she found it crawling around in her salad.
KES: There is something wrong. What is it?
NEELIX: No, nothing. I'm just very busy. So, you're seeing Tom Paris later?
KES: What? No, not that I know of.
NEELIX: He said, see you later. You said, right. Is he helping you in the Airponics bay now?
KES: He was just helping me carry these.
NEELIX: How thoughtful.
KES: Neelix, this is getting ridiculous. You're imagining things that aren't there.
NEELIX: You're such an innocent! I see the way he looks at you. I used to look at women that way. I know what it means.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to the senior staff. Please report to the bridge.
PARIS: Take care.
NEELIX: Thank you for bringing the cabbage. I can handle this from here. Thank you.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We've detected a strange energy configuration off the port bow.
PARIS: Any idea what it is?
KIM: It appears to be some sort of magnetic disturbance.
JANEWAY: We're going to take a closer look. You seem a little preoccupied, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: This morning I interrupted a couple who were kissing in the turbolift, and I've been wondering if we should establish a policy regarding fraternization.
JANEWAY: Well, the couple in question might be urged to show a bit more discretion, but Starfleet has always been reluctant to regulate peoples' personal lives.
CHAKOTAY: Of course. But we're in a unique situation here. The development of intimate relationships might cause us problems that wouldn't arise on other ships.
JANEWAY: I understand what you're saying but, we're a long way from home. Everyone is lonely, and all we have is each other. I think eventually people will begin to pair off.
CHAKOTAY: Including you?
JANEWAY: As captain, that's a luxury I don't have. Besides, I intend for us to be home before, before Mark gives me up for dead.
KIM: We're in visual range, Captain.
JANEWAY: On screen.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like some type of energetic vapor.
JANEWAY: Magnify.
CHAKOTAY: Space dwelling life forms.
JANEWAY: Full sensor scan, Mister Kim.
KIM: Their internal energy patterns appear to be consistent with discrete organic processes.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I'd like the chance to study them at close range.
JANEWAY: So would I, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: But let's not get too close. We wouldn't want to disturb their natural behavior.
JANEWAY: Half impulse, Mister Paris. Take us into bioscanner range.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: The swarm is not particularly dense, Captain. I estimate their number at fewer than two thousand.
PARIS: They're really moving.
KIM: He's right. They've accelerated to a velocity of approximately one thousand kilometers per second.
WILDMAN: It's possible we're frightening them.
JANEWAY: Keep us within scanner range, Lieutenant, but try to avoid rapid acceleration.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Take a look at this. See the way they propel themselves?
JANEWAY: They seem to flagellate, almost like protozoa.
CHAKOTAY: Exactly. But they're achieving incredible speeds. Over three thousand kilometers per second.
JANEWAY: Ensign Wildman, scan the field for repeating patterns. Maybe they're capable of some type of communication.
WILDMAN: Aye, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Their internal anatomy's also very unusual. They don't appear to have a digestive system of any kind, but they have an extremely porous outer covering. My guess would be that they absorb nutrients directly from space.
JANEWAY: Incredible. A space-dwelling life form capable of metabolizing inorganic matter.
WILDMAN: Particle density in this part of space isn't very high. That might explain why they have to keep moving so fast.
CHAKOTAY: Feeding at three thousand kilometers per second. Not exactly leisurely dining, is it?

[Kes's quarters]
KES: Come in.
NEELIX: For you, sweeting.
KES: Thank you. Mmm. What's the occasion?
NEELIX: Oh, no occasion. I just wanted to apologize.
KES: Apologize?
NEELIX: For the way I acted in the Mess hall. I was jealous.
KES: I know. I just wish you could trust me.
NEELIX: It has nothing to do with trusting you. It's him I don't trust. I've seen his kind before. They're all over the quadrant, as a matter of fact. They prey on naive, sheltered young women like you.
KES: What are you looking for?
NEELIX: A vase.
KES: Don't!
NEELIX: What's this?
KES: Nothing, just a snack. A Terran delicacy. Ensign Wildman told me about it. Mashed potatoes with butter. It's delicious. Would you like to try it?
NEELIX: Awful! How can you eat it?
KES: I can't stop eating it. I've had six bowls. And the reason it tastes so strange, I've put a container of nitrogenated soil in it.
NEELIX: Dirt? You're eating dirt? Why?
KES: I don't know. But this morning
NEELIX: What?
KES: You remember the spawn beetles?
NEELIX: You didn't. Neelix to Sickbay. Prepare to receive an emergency patient.
KES: I'm not sick. I feel fine.
KES: I just can't stop eating.
NEELIX: We are going to get to the bottom of this. Come on.
KES: No! I'm not going!
NEELIX: We are going to Sickbay.
KES: No!
NEELIX: I'll call security unless you come with me.
NEELIX: Come on! Come on!
KES: Let me go!

[Bridge]
PARIS: They're changing course again, Captain, and accelerating. Should I follow them?
JANEWAY: I'm concerned that we're disturbing them. Let's drop back a bit, give them a little more room.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
KIM: Captain, we're accelerating. We're getting closer to the swarm.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris?
PARIS: I'm trying to slow down, Captain.
KIM: Our velocity doesn't correspond to impulse reactor output. We're moving much faster than we ought to be.
PARIS: They seem to be pulling us toward them.
TUVOK: Sensors indicate an EM resonance field. The creatures seem to be creating their own magnetic wake. That is what is pulling the ship.
PARIS: We're getting closer.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, reverse thrusters.
PARIS: Helm controls aren't responding, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, raise shields.
TUVOK: Non-functional, Captain.
PARIS: They're pulling us in.
JANEWAY: Damage report.
KIM: Life support's functioning normally, Captain, but there's a huge fluctuation in the EPS grids. It's wreaking havoc with the impulse engines.
PARIS: Warp drive's still online. One burst and we'd be out of here.
CHAKOTAY: But our exhaust could seriously harm the creatures.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Torres. Do you have any thoughts about how to get us out of this swarm without engaging warp engines?

[Engineering]
TORRES: We might try something like a targ scoop.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Can you enlighten us, Lieutenant?
TORRES: Klingons put them on the front of ground assault vehicles. They emit a high frequency tone that disperses targ herds in their path. I can modify the

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): Main deflector to create an inverted magnetic pulse.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Project it toward the swarm. It might be enough to nudge the creatures out of the way.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Good idea, Lieutenant. Proceed.

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: You're sure the beetles weren't poisonous? Or the flowers?
EMH: There are no toxins present in her system.
NEELIX: Doctor, why is she eating all these strange things? What's wrong with her?
EMH: I am conducting an examination in order to determine that.
NEELIX: But don't you have any ideas?
EMH: Her unusual appetite may merely indicate a nutrient deficiency. It is not unusual for humanoids to crave foods that are rich in the very vitamins and minerals that their bodies are lacking.
KES: You can't mean my body lacks dirt?
EMH: Her body temperature is elevated three point nine degrees.
NEELIX: She's burning up!
EMH: And I'm detecting elevated levels of electrophoretic activity in her nervous system.
NEELIX: You have to bring them down!
EMH: There is increased electrophoretic activity in the ship's atmosphere, probably created by the creatures we're studying.
NEELIX: You mean there's a connection between what's happening to Kes and those creatures? Well, you have to do something about it!
EMH: You are making it impossible for me to think, much less treat my patient. You must leave.
NEELIX: Well, I won't. Kes needs me.
EMH: Leave now or I will call security.
NEELIX: You can't talk to me that way.
EMH: This is my Sickbay, and I will decide what goes on here.
NEELIX: But
EMH: Get out!
NEELIX: I'll be back. Don't worry about a thing.

[Bridge]
NEELIX: Captain, may I speak with you? It's a matter of some urgency.
JANEWAY: What is it, Neelix?
NEELIX: I have been thrown out of Sickbay, and I'm just wondering if you feel it's appropriate for a hologram to banish a flesh and blood person who should have the right to be at the bedside of his loved one who is extremely ill?
JANEWAY: Kes is extremely ill?
NEELIX: The hologram doesn't have a clue as to what's wrong with her, though it may have something to do with these creatures. But he still won't let me offer comfort to the woman I love at a time when my place is clearly by her side.
JANEWAY: Just how is Kes being affected by the swarm?
NEELIX: That's what I wanted to know. But before I got any answers, I was summarily dismissed!
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to bridge.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.
EMH (voiceover): Captain, I think you'd better come down here. There's a bit of a problem.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way. Commander, you have the bridge. Notify me immediately of any change in our status.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I was conducting tests. She was none too cooperative, let me assure you. Then suddenly she screeched and shoved me out of the way, went into my office and proceeded to erect a force field at the door. I can't lower it. She's keeping me out of my own office.
NEELIX: Sweeting. What's wrong? Please come out.
EMH: I was able to complete several tests before she became delirious. Her fever has increased, and her pulse and blood pressure are dangerously high.
JANEWAY: Do you have any idea what's causing these symptoms?
EMH: I suspect it's the electrophoretic levels being created by the swarm. We should leave. Immediately.
JANEWAY: Unfortunately, that's not an option at the moment, but we're working on it.
EMH: There's one more thing. I discovered a strange growth on her back. It's unlike any other tumorous substance I've ever seen or studied before, and it was not there the last time I examined her.
JANEWAY: I'll try to talk to her.
NEELIX: Kes, please come out. You can eat anything you want. Captain?
JANEWAY: Why don't you let me try? Kes, please listen to me. We think you're being affected by a swarm of space dwelling life forms. We're doing everything we can to get away from them. And when we do, you'll probably start feeling better.
JANEWAY: Are you saying that's not what's wrong with you? Kes, please let me come in. Tell me what it is. Maybe I can help.

[Doctor's office]
JANEWAY: Oh. Shush. It's going to be all right. Now, tell me. What is happening to you?
KES: Did the Doctor tell you he found something growing on my back?
JANEWAY: Yes, a growth of some kind.
KES: It's, it's the mitral sac. It's, it's where my child would grow. I'm going through the elogium, the time of change, when, when my body prepares for fertilization.
JANEWAY: Humans go through the same kind of process. It's called puberty.
KES: But I'm too young. Much too young. It usually happens between the ages of four and five. I'm not even two yet.
JANEWAY: Listen to me. All your body's metabolic activity has increased. It's possible your reproductive processes are being accelerated as a result.
KES: I'm not ready.
JANEWAY: We're going to get you through this, Kes. The Doctor will monitor you constantly.
KES: But you, you don't understand. The elogium occurs only once. If I am ever going to have a child, it has to be now!

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: No change, Captain. We're still being pulled along with the swarm.
PARIS: Heading one twenty one mark seven. Speed now six thousand kilometers per second.
KIM: All systems are functioning within normal parameters.
JANEWAY: How is Torres coming with the modifications to the main deflector?
CHAKOTAY: Her last report estimated they'd be finished in another half hour.
JANEWAY: Let me know as soon as she's ready. Join me, Commander?

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Kes is terribly frightened. She's had no time to prepare for this. And the decision has to be made in the next forty or fifty hours. She's going to discuss it with Neelix, but there are so many unknowns. There might be risks in procreating this early. And of course, there's no guarantee they're genetically compatible, or that Neelix has any interest in becoming a father. It seems your concerns about fraternization were prophetic.
CHAKOTAY: I wasn't even thinking about procreation, but I suppose it's the inevitable outcome. We should consider the fact that it might be necessary for the crew to start having children.
JANEWAY: It might take us a long time to get home.
CHAKOTAY: If it does take seventy five years, we're going to need a replacement crew in about half that time.
JANEWAY: Who'd have thought we'd be considering a generational ship when we were ordered on a three week mission.
CHAKOTAY: I know, but it's a problem we have to face now.
JANEWAY: What would that mean for the children? What kind of life would we be giving them aboard a starship, traveling through a potentially hostile part of space? And are we equipped to provide for their needs? Child care, educational facilities. We'd be building an entire community on board this ship. That's a massive commitment.
CHAKOTAY: Are you prepared to tell them they can't have children?
JANEWAY: I can't do that. And I've made it clear to Kes that it's her choice whether to have a child or not, but. There aren't any easy answers here. For any of us.

[Kes's quarters]
NEELIX: Are you saying that unless you conceive now, you'll never be able to?
KES: Yes. And I need you to help me decide, because I would want you to mate with me.
NEELIX: Oh. I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm honored, but are you entirely certain it would be safe?
KES: Safe?
NEELIX: Well, you're so young. Is it dangerous for you to conceive a child at your age?
KES: I don't know. I've never known anyone as young as I am who had a baby.
NEELIX: If you never had a child, would you be terribly unhappy?
KES: Yes! I mean, I think so. I don't know. I always assumed I'd be a mother someday. Just not so soon. What about you? Didn't you think you'd be a father someday?
NEELIX: Well, to be honest, I've never given it much thought. Until now, my life has been so itinerant. There's no way I could have provided the stability a child would need.
KES: But now it's different, isn't it?
NEELIX: Well, yes. but raising a child on a starship? That's hardly what I would call the ideal environment.
KES: You don't want a child, do you?
NEELIX: No, that's not it at all. I'm just trying to look at all sides of the issue. Bringing a child into the world. It's a huge responsibility. I know you'd want to be sure we're both up to the task. I mean, somebody would have to keep their eye on the little guy all the time or he'd be off sticking his finger into an EM conduit or playing with the plasma injectors.
KES: That's right. That's called being a parent.
NEELIX: What about your medical studies? You wouldn't be able to continue them if you had a child.
KES: Of course I would. You're just making excuses. All you're thinking about is yourself, how much trouble a child would be for you. Look!
NEELIX: What's that?
KES: The ipasaphor. It makes the mating bond possible.
NEELIX: It does?
KES: If we begin, we must stay bonded for six days.
NEELIX: Six days?
KES: In order to ensure conception. And after the ipasaphor appears, we only have fifty hours to begin the process. So I need to know your answer.
NEELIX: Well, er, fifty hours? That's good. That's good. We can sleep on it. I'll get back to you.

[Mess Hall]
NEELIX: Sorry. I swear I heard you say lots of pepper sauce.
TUVOK: What is the lunch special today?
NEELIX: Well, actually, I didn't get around to making a lunch special. But we have some lovely gabosti stew left over from last night.
TUVOK: Very well. It will do.
NEELIX: I've had quite a run on it, as a matter of fact. It seems very popular.
TUVOK: If it is all you are serving, that would stand to reason.
NEELIX: You can have it with or without pepper sauce.
TUVOK: Without.
NEELIX: Mister Tuvok, I was wondering. You have children, don't you?
TUVOK: I have four.
NEELIX: Four! My, that's certainly quite a family. Tell me, what's it like, being a father?
TUVOK: The question is so broad, it is difficult to respond.
NEELIX: Well, I mean, it's a lot of responsibility, isn't it? Watching them, caring for them, keeping them safe, giving them an education.
TUVOK: That is certainly true.
NEELIX: Sounds like it's a lot more trouble than it's worth.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, I am aware of your situation. It appears you are in some doubt as to the wisdom of becoming a parent.
NEELIX: It's just all happening so fast. I don't know what to think.
TUVOK: I can only tell you that if you have considerable doubts about fatherhood, it would not be wise to enter into the process. It is so much more overwhelming than one expects, that I believe only the most committed should become parents.
NEELIX: Ah. that's what I thought.
TUVOK: However, I must point out that, as illogical as it seems, being a father can have infinite rewards. Far more than would seem possible. My children occupy a significant portion of my thoughts. Now more than ever.
NEELIX: I-I-I've heard it said that children can bring a lot of joy into one's life.
TUVOK: I experienced neither joy nor sorrow, but I do believe it is possible.
NEELIX: Now that I think about it, it might be fun to have a little guy around. We could do a lot together. I've got quite a bit I could teach a boy, you know. Survival methods, piloting skills, romantic techniques.
TUVOK: If you say so. But I must point out that there is an equal chance that you would have a daughter.
NEELIX: A daughter? I don't have anything to teach a daughter.
TUVOK: Why would it be any different from what you would teach a son?
NEELIX: It just would. She'd learn more from her mother.
TUVOK: I have three sons and one daughter. I can assure you she benefits as much from my presence and guidance as my sons do. It is unfortunate that I must be so far removed from all of them now.
NEELIX: I understand. We'll get there, Mister Vulcan. I'm sure of it. Thank you. You've given me a lot to think about.

[Bridge]
TORRES: We're ready to generate the inverted magnetic pulse, Captain.
JANEWAY: Proceed.
TORRES: Initiating the field. It's working.
JANEWAY: Are the creatures all right, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, Captain. They seem to be fine.
JANEWAY: Let's try to keep it that way. Thrusters at two hundred kph, Mister Paris. Ease us out of here.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
KIM: What are they doing?
CHAKOTAY: Hard to know what's prompting that behavior. Maybe they think we're making a hostile move.
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: I'm reading a massive energy drain in all ship's systems.
PARIS: Impulse engines are losing power.
KIM: Captain, some of the life forms have attached themselves to the warp nacelles.
TUVOK: Guidance, navigational and tactical systems are failing.
JANEWAY: How soon will we clear the swarm, Lieutenant?
PARIS: In a few seconds. We're almost out.
TUVOK: Captain, I am detecting a substantial magnetic mass moving rapidly toward the port bow.
WILDMAN: It's physiologically similar to the smaller creatures, just a lot bigger.
TUVOK: Perhaps it is the parent.
CHAKOTAY: Or it could be a difference in gender. It's hard to say without further observation.
TORRES: With all due respect, Captain, haven't we done enough observing? These creatures have attacked the ship's key systems. For all we know, they were setting us up for an attack.
JANEWAY: It's possible. Mister Paris, let's keep moving. If we can put some distance between us and the swarm, maybe the ones on our nacelles will drop off and rejoin their friends.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. Two hundred kph.
TUVOK: The larger creature is moving with us.
PARIS: Now what?
KIM: The creature has emitted an electrically charged plasma stream.
JANEWAY: All stop. Damage report.
KIM: No significant damage, Captain. Shields are holding.
TORRES: A plasma blast is a hostile move. Shouldn't we be thinking about responding?
JANEWAY: If the creature threatens serious damage to the ship, I'll consider it an enemy. Until then, they're all to be treated as indigenous life forms behaving normally in their natural habitat. We're the intruders here.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, look at this. They're attaching themselves to the large creature the same way they did to us.
KIM: And I think I know why. That plasma stream it ejected has almost the same subspace signature as our warp nacelles.
JANEWAY: Then the smaller creatures are attracted to our subspace emissions.
CHAKOTAY: Perhaps in the same way some species are attracted to pheromones.
JANEWAY: Pheromones? You think it's a sexual attraction?
CHAKOTAY: Color change and provocative movement are frequently associated with mating rituals.
PARIS: Then these guys think we're one of them?
CHAKOTAY: Well, their behavior toward us and the large creature is similar. It's possible they've mistaken us for a potential mate.

[Kes's quarters]
KES: Yes?
NEELIX: Well, order the diapers. We're about to become parents.
KES: You mean you want to mate with me?
NEELIX: More than anything.
KES: But you were making excuses. I didn't think you wanted to be a father.
NEELIX: I just hadn't thought it through. Now that I have, I swear to you I want to do this. And I'll be the best possible father to our child.
KES: I know you will.
NEELIX: So, what comes next?
KES: Before we begin the mating process, I have to go through a certain ritual called the rolisisin.
NEELIX: What does that involve?
KES: One of my parents has to massage my feet until my tongue begins to swell.
NEELIX: Er, where do you plan to find a parent?
KES: If Captain Janeway weren't so busy, I'd ask her, but I'm sure the Doctor would do it.
NEELIX: Will that work, since he's not a real person?
KES: The Doctor is very real to me.
NEELIX: I don't know how I feel about him massaging your feet.
KES: It's a ritual. Someone has to do it.
NEELIX: Okay. Okay, fine. How long will that take?
KES: About an hour. Then I'll be back.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Fascinating. The stimulation to the sympathetic nerves must set off a hormonal reaction, which activates glandular activity in the tissues of the tongue. I've never seen this response before. Although in a species known as the Gree, stimulating follicles on the proboscis results in a swelling of the auricular canal.
KES: Doctor?
EMH: Yes?
KES: Am I doing the right thing?
EMH: You'll have to tell me. I know nothing of this ritual.
KES: No. I mean am I doing the right thing by conceiving a child? If I were at home now, my father would be performing the rolisisin with me. It's time when parent and child move into a new kind of relationship. As the child has her own child, the parent must acknowledge her true adulthood.
EMH: I see.
KES: My father and I were very close. He was such a wise man. I miss him. Sometimes I think I hear his voice in my head. It's almost as though he were here, helping to guide me. I'm sorry. I must be feeling lonely for home. It's probably a result of the elogium. But I really would appreciate your advice, your help. I need someone's guidance.
EMH: I can discuss delivery methods or pediatric situations. I'm afraid I don't have much perspective to offer about becoming a parent.
KES: Neither do I. As long as Neelix was opposed to the idea, trying to get out of it, I was certain that I wanted to have a child. But when he said that he wanted one too, suddenly I was very frightened.
EMH: Perhaps a statistical survey will offer a context. Among the Breen, pregnancy at a young age is a common event. The Breen, of course, is one the most warlike of species. And then there are the Scathos. Any woman who conceives a child before her fourth decade is summarily executed.
KES: Maybe I just felt I should have a child because I could.
EMH: There is a powerful biological drive, at times almost impossible to resist. Species are driven by these urges in order to survive.
KES: But isn't that why we have minds? To look beyond biological urges, to consider their consequences? If I'm going to ask myself to look at those consequences, then I have to ask myself some questions. Am I really ready to have a child? Am I prepared to give that child the attention and devotion it deserves? Am I capable of taking on such a huge responsibility? There's so much I haven't done. There's so much I want to study and learn. I'm not sure I'm finished growing. How can I help a child grow?

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: If the smaller creatures are sexually attracted to our subspace emissions, then the large one may perceive us as a rival. That plasma burst it sent out might have been aggressive posturing.
JANEWAY: Then you'd think it would be happy to see us leave. Lieutenant, is there any way we could generate a short burst at impulse, enough to get us away from this swarm?
TORRES: I could try releasing power from the impulse capacitance cells straight into the driver coils.
JANEWAY: Do it.
TORRES: All right. I've accessed the capacitance cells. I think I can give you enough for a short burst at impulse. We've got one shot, Captain.
JANEWAY: You heard her, Mister Paris. Make the best of it.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. Initiating impulse burst, now.
TUVOK: Captain, the creature is reacting. It is approaching rapidly on a collision course.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers, Lieutenant.
TORRES: We don't have the power for that.
KIM: The creature is accelerating.
PARIS: I'm losing power. Can't shake him.
TUVOK: All hands brace for impact.
KIM: Structural integrity down to eight six percent.
TUVOK: I'm beginning to share Lieutenant Torres' views, Captain. Retaliation may become necessary.
JANEWAY: It's not my intention to harm the creature.
PARIS: The feeling definitely isn't mutual.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, launch a Class Four probe. Maybe that will distract the creature long enough for us to get away.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. Probe launched.
KIM: Another plasma burst. Shields are down to sixty four percent. Looks like the probe just made him angry.
TORRES: This is an aggressive life form, Captain. He's only going to respond to an aggressive stance from us.
TUVOK: Treating the creature as it is treating us might be an appropriate response.
JANEWAY: We ram him.
TUVOK: Precisely.
WILDMAN: It's probably the response he expects.
KIM: Captain, shields are at forty seven percent. Any more of this and the hull will start to buckle.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, use maneuvering thrusters. Set a course toward the creature. Give him a bump to get his attention.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. Engaging thrusters.
TUVOK: The creature is not retreating, Captain.
PARIS: He's just hitting us back harder!
JANEWAY: Let's try this. Detonate a field of photon charges between Voyager and the creature. Maybe the shock wave will let him know we mean business.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, if I may. Maybe we're going about this backwards.
JANEWAY: Yes, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Every aggressive move we make results in a more aggressive move by the creature. If we're not prepared to use extreme force to destroy him, we need to rethink our actions.
JANEWAY: I'm listening.
CHAKOTAY: If we're right that the creature is responding to us as a sexual rival, we might try behaving in a submissive way. That may appease him. We'd be acknowledging that he's dominant and that we're no match for him.
JANEWAY: How do we do that? We tried to move away slowly. He wouldn't let us leave.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we need to mimic the behavior of the smaller creatures. We saw them rolling over and changing color.
KIM: If we vent plasma residue, that might make us look blue.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, do we have enough power to take Voyager into a roll?
PARIS: I think so.
JANEWAY: All right. Let's give this a try. Mister Kim, start venting plasma residue. Mister Paris, roll the ship.
PARIS: Full power to inertial dampers.
JANEWAY: He's not responding at all. It's not working.
KIM: Wait a minute, Captain.
JANEWAY: What is it?
KIM: One of the small creatures is detaching from the starboard nacelle. And another one. They're all letting go.
TUVOK: It appears we have lost our sex appeal, Captain.
JANEWAY: Good piloting, Lieutenant. Now let's see if we can move away without any interference.
TORRES: I can give you enough thruster power to sustain a speed of one hundred kph.
PARIS: Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: Good work, Commander. In the future, if I have any questions about mating behavior, I'll know where to go.

[Mess hall]
KES: Can I help?
NEELIX: No. Thanks.
KES: Is something wrong?
NEELIX: No. No, nothing.

[Kitchen]
KES: You've been very quiet ever since I decided not to conceive.
NEELIX: It was your choice. I respect that.
KES: Neelix, I think you're disappointed.
NEELIX: I think, once I decided to become a father, I was looking forward to it. But I'll get over it.
KES: Maybe you won't have to get over it. Just wait a little longer.
NEELIX: But I thought this was the only time.
KES: The Doctor believes the elogium was false, brought on by the electrophoretic field that those life forms created. So there's a possibility that I might be able to go through it again at the right age.
NEELIX: You mean, we might still be able to have a daughter?
KES: Or a son.
NEELIX: No. I've thought about it. A daughter, definitely. One who looks just like you.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 48921.3. I continue to wonder about the issue of procreation aboard the ship. Certainly, it's wrong to interfere with the private lives and decisions of the crew, yet I remain concerned about the environment we could provide for any child born here.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in. Yes, Ensign. What can I do for you?
WILDMAN: I'm sorry to disturb you, Captain, but I thought. I thought I should inform you of my physical condition.
JANEWAY: Your physical condition?
WILDMAN: We'd been trying for months. I wasn't even sure until a few days ago. My husband is still at Deep Space Nine. He doesn't even know. We were only supposed to be out two or three weeks.
JANEWAY: Wildman, are you pregnant?
WILDMAN: I know this isn't the best place to have a baby, but it's all I have left of my husband.
JANEWAY: Well, congratulations, Ensign.

[Kim's apartment, San Francisco]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Voyager to shuttlecraft Drake. Prepare for emergency transport. Mister Kim, can you hear me? We're attempting to lock on to you. Harry?
LIBBY: Harry? Hey, it's time to wake up. What's wrong?
KIM: Libby.
LIBBY: Yes?
KIM: This can't be happening.
LIBBY: What's wrong with you?
KIM: Libby, it's really you, isn't it?
LIBBY: Come on. You're going to be late.
KIM: What?
LIBBY: You have a meeting. Oh nine hundred, remember? You've only been obsessing about it for a week. I don't want Lieutenant Lasca blaming me because you weren't on time for the biggest meeting of your career. Now get dressed and I'll make you some breakfast.
LIBBY: Come on, the eggs are getting cold. What's with you today?
KIM: The date. What's the date?
LIBBY: The date?
KIM: What day is today?
LIBBY: 49011.
KIM: So this isn't the past. It's the present. San Francisco. This can't be a dream, it's too real. It's too clear. So what does that leave. A holodeck? A hallucination? Some kind of trick? The last thing, I remember was piloting a shuttlecraft on my way back to Voyager.
LIBBY: We both have a long day ahead of us. Could we play this little game another time, please?
KIM: No, you can't be Libby. It's not possible. My name is Ensign Harry Kim of the Federation Starship Voyager. Where am I? Is this some sort of simulation?
LIBBY: That's not funny, Harry, talking about Voyager like that. The memorial service was only two months ago. Danny was your best friend. How could you joke about it?
KIM: Danny? Danny Byrd?
LIBBY: I'm done with this conversation. Go to work. I'll see you tonight.
KIM: What is going on?

[Outside Cosimo's Coffee Shop]
COSIMO: Harry! Coming right up.
COSIMO: Here you go. Vulcan mocha, extra sweet.
KIM: Thanks.
COSIMO: So today's the big day, huh?
KIM: What do you mean?
COSIMO: You know, the meeting. The new ship you're designing. And don't forget. You promised to bring me a model. And I'm going to hang it right there in my window. And I'll tell everyone, Harry Kim, he designed that ship. He came into my shop every morning.
KIM: Look, I know this is going to sound a little funny, but how long have I been coming to this coffee shop?
COSIMO: How long? Well, let's see. Since you left the Academy. How is that? Eight? Eight months.
KIM: Eight months. And you've seen me every day?
COSIMO: Well, not every day. You like to sleep late on Sunday. But if I had your fiancée, I'd sleep late too.
KIM: Fiancée? We're getting married?
COSIMO: Ah, yes. There were many mornings I woke up, I said the same thing to myself when I was about to be married. But don't worry, it'll pass.
KIM: I don't think you've ever had a morning quite like this one.
LASCA: Hey, Harry! You ready to go?
KIM: Er, where?
LASCA: Very funny. Come on. We'd better get moving if we're going to catch the transport to Headquarters.
KIM: I, I'm not sure I can go. I'm not feeling very well. Maybe I should just go home.
LASCA: Come on. Come on. It's just a case of the jitters. You'll do just fine.

[Starfleet Headquarters]
LASCA: Relax, Harry. If all goes well, you'll walk out of this room a Lieutenant. Let me see that warp coil schematic.
KIM: The what?
LASCA: The coil diagram. The one with the new plasma flow equations.
KIM: I forgot to bring it.
LASCA: Forgot? Harry, we need that diagram to show that we worked out the dilithium fracture problem.
KIM: I'm sorry.
LASCA: Well, we'll just have to improvise.
STRICKLER: Good morning. I have a meeting at eleven hundred hours with the head of Starfleet Security. She doesn't like to be kept waiting. Let's get this underway. Lieutenant Lasca?
LASCA: Thank you, Admiral.
LASCA: Ladies and gentlemen, you are looking at the new runabout Yellowstone. It's equipped with tetryon plasma warp nacelles, and designed for a variety of mission profiles.
STRICKLER: Yes, Lieutenant. I've looked over your specifications. It's an interesting design. But how do you propose to address the dilithium fracture problem? Tetryon plasma tends to disrupt subspace.
LASCA: I'm actually glad you asked that question, sir. We've been working on the problem for several weeks, and I think you'll see that we have found an answer. I'd like to introduce you to the engineer who designed these new warp engines, and I might add, he is the most promising young engineer to come out of the Academy in a long time. Ensign Harry Kim. Harry?
STRICKLER: Is there a problem, Ensign?
KIM: Actually, sir, there is.
LASCA: Come on, Harry. Pull it together. We've been waiting for this for six months.
STRICKLER: Ensign, are you ill?
KIM: Yes, sir. I'm very ill. I would like to continue this presentation at a later date.
STRICKLER: Well, unfortunately, Ensign, I'm leaving for a three week tour of the Cardassian border in a few days. It will have to wait until after then.
LASCA: Harry, you'd better be dying.

[Kim's office]
KIM: Guess I'm pretty good. Computer, display my service record. Graduated Starfleet Academy stardate 47918. Requested duty on USS Voyager. Request denied. Requested transfer to Starfleet Engineering Corps. Transfer approved. Starship design specialist. Awarded the Cochrane Medal of Excellence for outstanding advances in warp theory. Computer, access Starfleet Science Academy database. Have there been any temporal anomalies in the space-time continuum reported in the last forty eight hours?
COMPUTER: Negative. No temporal anomalies have been reported.
KIM: Computer, has there been any contact with the starship Voyager since it was lost in the Badlands?
COMPUTER: Information on USS Voyager is classified. Security clearance level three or above is required to access files.
KIM: No problem. It's my ship, or at least I thought it was.
COMPUTER: Security authorisation accepted. Last recorded contact with USS Voyager prior to its disappearance was on stardate 48307.5.
KIM: Access Voyager crew manifest. Who was the operations officer on board?
COMPUTER: Ensign Daniel Byrd.
KIM: Danny.

[Outside Cosimo's Coffee Shop]
COSIMO: Harry! What are you doing back so early?
KIM: Oh, hi. I wasn't feeling too well, so I decided to come home.
COSIMO: Oh, you don't look sick to me. Coming home for a little visit with Libby, are we? Ah, to be young. Don't worry. I'll keep your secret.
KIM: Thanks. Listen, I know this is going to sound strange, but I forgot to look at the street number when I left this morning, and I don't remember which building I live in. Could you
COSIMO: Tell you where you live? You're not playing some kind of a prank on your old pal Cosimo, are you?
KIM: No, like I said, I haven't been feeling well, and everything's kind of foggy.
COSIMO: Okay, okay, okay. Well, you live right over there. Fourth floor, apartment four G.
KIM: Thanks.
COSIMO: Harry, don't look so concerned. Everything's going to work out. You have a wonderful job, a beautiful fiancée. Everything's going to be fine. Trust me, hmm?

[Kim's apartment]
LIBBY (voiceover): Hello? Who's there?
KIM: It's just me, Libby.
LIBBY: Harry? Are you okay?
KIM: Yeah. I'm fine.
LIBBY: You feel a little warm. God, you're tense. Why don't you tell me what happened today?
KIM: Nothing. Everything. I'm not sure what happened.
LIBBY: But Harry, forget about work. Try to relax. You're home now. What can I do to help?
KIM: Just tell me you love me.
LIBBY: I tell you that every day. Aren't you getting sick of hearing it?
KIM: No. In fact, pretend I haven't heard you say it in a long time. Pretend that we haven't seen each other for months.
LIBBY: Okay. I love you, Harry. Welcome home. So, if we haven't seen each other for months, where have you been?
KIM: Oh, on a starship, thousands of light years away.
LIBBY: A mission?
KIM: Yeah. We got a little lost.
LIBBY: Oh. Sounds lonely.
KIM: You can't imagine.
LIBBY: Tell me something. You didn't stop at Risa along the way, did you?
KIM: No. No pleasure planet excursions, I'm afraid.
LIBBY: You thought about me the whole time?
KIM: Every day. Every nanosecond.
LIBBY: Do me a favor.
KIM: Hmm?
LIBBY: Don't ever leave me again.

[Kim's apartment - night]
KIM: Orlando, Parsons, Peterson, Platt, Porter. Wait a minute. Paris. Where's Tom Paris? Computer, access service record of Starfleet officer Thomas Eugene Paris. Convicted of treason. Sentenced to eighteen months at the New Zealand Penal Settlement. Paroled on stardate 48702. Last reported whereabouts, Marseilles, France.
LIBBY: Harry? It's four in the morning. What are you doing?
KIM: Oh, I couldn't sleep, so I thought I'd catch up on some work.
LIBBY: When are you going to tell me what's going on?
KIM: There's nothing going on, okay?
LIBBY: You're not a very good liar, Harry. You've been acting strange all day. And I'm not the only one who's worried about you. Lieutenant Lasca called this afternoon. He said he's never seen you so agitated, so don't tell me there's nothing going on.
KIM: Libby, it's hard to explain right now. And I do want to tell you, but I need you to trust me.
LIBBY: I do trust you. I love you. That's why I'm marrying you. I would hope you would have the same trust in me.
KIM: All right. This, this is going to sound a little crazy from your perspective, but I am not who you think I am.
LIBBY: Oh?
KIM: All of this, it's not supposed to be happening. I don't belong here.
LIBBY: If you're having second thoughts about getting married, why didn't you just say so?
KIM: You don't understand. What I'm trying to say is, I'm from another reality.
LIBBY: Another reality.
KIM: That's right.
LIBBY: Harry, you're starting to scare me.
KIM: I know. I'm scared too.
LIBBY: Maybe you should talk to a counselor, a neurologist. There may be something wrong with you.
KIM: I will, but there's someone else I need to see first.
LIBBY: Where are you going?
KIM: Marseilles, France.
LIBBY: What for?
KIM: I've got to see Paris.
LIBBY: But you just said you were going to Marseilles.
KIM: It's a long story. Trust me, okay?
LIBBY: Okay.

[Sandrine's, Marseilles]
PARIS: Hey. Watch it, will you? I'm trying to set up a shot here.
KIM: Tom.
PARIS: Who the hell are you?
KIM: You don't know me, do you?
PARIS: Sure. We were at the Academy together, right?
KIM: No.
PARIS: Oh. Well, it must have been the Exeter. We served on the Exeter together?
KIM: Try Voyager.
PARIS: Ah, Voyager. Well, sorry to disappoint you, but I never set foot on that ship. And I can't say that I'm sorry, considering what happened to it.
KIM: You know about the mission to the Badlands?
PARIS: Oh, yeah. Captain Janeway asked if I'd help her track down that Maquis ship in exchange for an early release from the penal colony.
KIM: But you said no?
PARIS: What? Are you kidding? I said yes! It sounded better than Starfleet Rehab. Anyway, I got as far as Deep Space Nine, where I got into a bar fight with a Ferengi, and I was thrown into the brig by a very unpleasant shapeshifter. Janeway tried to get me released but my parole was revoked by Starfleet Command. Voyager left without me.
KIM: That Ferengi, was he trying to sell you Lobi crystals?
PARIS: Yeah. How do you know about that?
KIM: Because I was there. In my reality, anyway. Tom, I know this is going to sound crazy, but I was on Voyager and so were you. You never got into a bar fight with that Ferengi. You stopped him from selling me Lobi crystals. And you did lead us into the Badlands.
PARIS: You're right. That does sound crazy.
KIM: Something's happened. Somehow, reality has been changed. A temporal anomaly, an alien influence, I can't explain how. All I know is that it's true. I was in a shuttlecraft heading back to Voyager, and then I woke up here on Earth.
PARIS: What is it you want?
KIM: Come with me to Starfleet Headquarters. Help me run a computer simulation of what happened on that shuttle. You're the best pilot I've ever seen, and if anyone can figure it out, it's you.
PARIS: You had me there for a minute. You really did. But then you blew it.
KIM: What are you talking about?
PARIS: You're not getting me to set foot inside Starfleet Headquarters. So you tell whatever admiral or captain who sent you that I'm not interested in being another pawn in one of their games.
KIM: It's not a game!
PARIS: Oh, it isn't? Oh, that's a shame. I like games.
KIM: You once told me that you used to treat life like one big game. Rules, players, winners, losers. You never took any of it seriously until you lost.
PARIS: You know, you're starting to annoy me.
KIM: You also told me you were afraid of what would happen to you if you didn't take Captain Janeway up on her offer. Now I see why.
PARIS: What do you see, Ensign?
KIM: A loser and a drunk.
KIM: I guess in this reality, that's all you'll ever be.

[Kim's apartment]
KIM: What's going on?
LASCA: Harry, just relax.
KIM: Why does everyone say relax when they're about to do something terrible?
LASCA: Starfleet knows what you've been doing.
KIM: Which is what exactly?
LASCA: Breaking into classified files, using forged security access codes.
KIM: I haven't forged anything. And I can explain.
LASCA: That's why we're here. We're going to take you back to Starfleet Headquarters. They want to ask you a few questions.
LIBBY: Harry, please. Just go with them. Tell them what you told me. Everything will be all right.
KIM: I don't think I have a choice at the moment. I'll see you later.

[Starfleet Headquarters]
STRICKLER: You claim to have Voyager security protocols because you were an officer on Voyager.
KIM: Yes, sir.
STRICKLER: Lost in the Delta Quadrant.
KIM: Yes, sir.
STRICKLER: And Ensign Daniel Byrd. You say that he's taken your place on that ship?
KIM: Yes, sir.
STRICKLER: And this is all because reality has been changed somehow?
KIM: Yes, sir.
STRICKLER: But you don't have a single shred of evidence to back up your claims.
LASCA: Harry, I don't doubt for a minute that you believe you're telling the truth, but we have to consider all the possibilities.
KIM: Like what?
LASCA: Like you could be delusional, or you could have had your memory centers altered so that you think what you're saying is the truth. Or you could be an alien masquerading as Harry Kim.
KIM: That's crazy. I am Harry Kim. Check my DNA if you don't believe me. Run a microcellular scan of my cerebral cortex to see if my memory's been altered. Everything I'm saying is true.
STRICKLER: Mister Kim, why did you travel to Marseilles, France this morning?
KIM: I went to look up an old friend.
STRICKLER: You have poor taste in friends. Thomas Paris is a convicted traitor and a Maquis sympathizer. Now, what did you talk about with him?
KIM: I tried to tell him what's happened. I wanted his help.
STRICKLER: His help to run a shuttle simulation. Why?
KIM: To figure out how I got here and how I can get back. There must be a temporal anomaly somewhere or. You think I'm a spy, don't you. You think I'm working for the Maquis.
STRICKLER: We're here to find the truth, Ensign, whatever that might be.
KIM: That's it! I'm not answering any more questions until I have legal counsel.
STRICKLER: You have that right.
LASCA: Harry, we want to help you but try to understand. What you are telling us doesn't make much sense. All we know so far is that you have been seen talking with a Maquis criminal, and you've broken into classified Starfleet records. Until there is something else, something concrete, those are the facts in this case, and you have to admit, the facts look pretty bad.
STRICKLER: We will be monitoring your movements until further notice. I believe you know the restrictions. No off-world travel, and if you tamper with the anklet, Security will be immediately alerted and you will be formally charged. Do you understand?
KIM: Yes, Admiral.
STRICKLER: We'll be spending a lot of time together, Ensign. And I assure you, we will get to the bottom of this. You're dismissed.

[Outside Cosimo's Coffee Shop]
COSIMO: Troubles, Harry?
KIM: You could say that.
COSIMO: Let's have some coffee.
COSIMO: I was sent here to watch you, to make sure that you were all right. But it's now clear that you are not.
KIM: Who are you?
COSIMO: We exist in what you would call a temporal inversion fold in the space-time matrix. It's not necessary to understand. It only matters that there was an accident. Your shuttle intersected one of our time streams, and boom! A few things were altered as the result of the accident. History and events were scrambled a bit, and you ended up here.
KIM: Well, you've got to get me back.
COSIMO: We don't know how.
KIM: What?
COSIMO: We only know that an accident occurred. We don't know how or why.
KIM: Well, that's not good enough. There's got to be something we can do. Where is this time stream of yours? Maybe I can use it to get back.
COSIMO: The time stream weaves through the galaxy like a thread. I could show you how to find it, and you could try to recreate the conditions that existed before the accident, and fly back into it, but there's no guarantee what will happen to you if you do.
KIM: What do you mean?
COSIMO: Well, you may be able to change reality again, but there's no way to predict how it would change. You could end up at any point in the space-time continuum. You might return to your original reality, or you might find yourself a billion years in the future. Or at some time before sentient life even existed on your planet.
KIM: I guess I'll have to take that chance, because somehow I have to get back.
COSIMO: Are you so sure? This is a pretty good place for you, Harry. You have a wonderful job with Starfleet, a beautiful woman who loves you. Why be so quick to turn your back on all this? Maybe this is your, er, fate. Isn't that the word your people use? That thing which was meant to be? Hmm? Seems to me you're actually a very lucky man.
KIM: What about Danny Byrd? He isn't so lucky. And Tom Paris? Fate wasn't so kind to him. No, it isn't supposed to be this way. I'm supposed to be on Voyager in the Delta Quadrant. And that's where I have to go.
COSIMO: Very well.
COSIMO: This will tell you where the time stream intersects this region of space. That's as much as I can do for you.
KIM: Thanks.
COSIMO: Good luck, Harry Kim of Voyager. You're going to need it. Unless of course, you decide to stay. In which case, I'll see you in the morning, same time. Vulcan mocha, extra sweet.

[Kim's apartment]
KIM: Libby. I didn't hear you come in.
LIBBY: Obviously. You're in enough trouble as it is. What do you want them to do, put you in prison?
KIM: No. I'm just trying to get back to where I belong.
LIBBY: Where you belong. You used to say you belonged here with me. But I guess everything's changed, hasn't it?
KIM: Look, I know the last few days must have been pretty tough on you.
LIBBY: Do you? Do you really know what it's like when the person you love suddenly changes?
KIM: It's still me. The guy who was in your seat at the Ktarian music festival. The guy who took three weeks to work up the courage to ask you out. The guy who still wakes up in the middle of the night and says your name out loud, hoping you'll answer back.
LIBBY: But if you're really Harry, you wouldn't be trying so hard to get away from me.
KIM: I'm not trying to get away from you. I love you. And I promise you, I want to stay here more than anything. But I can't.
LIBBY: I don't understand. I don't understand any of this.
KIM: I don't think anybody knows me as well as you do, so you of all people should know that once I've made up my mind about something, I can't let it go. In some ways, it'd be a lot easier to forget about Voyager, just settle in here and build a life. But that wouldn't be me. You wouldn't be getting the Harry Kim you fell in love with. Does that make any sense?
KIM: The tampering alarm. Security will be here any second. I'd better go. I promise you, I'm going to try to get back. It may take a while, and I may not make it, but I swear, I will try.
LIBBY: Sorry.

[Street]
SECURITY: Hold it!

[Another street]
SECURITY: Get up!
PARIS: Excuse me.
PARIS: Ow! There goes my bank shot.
KIM: What are you doing here?
PARIS: Helping out a friend. Let's go.

[Alleyway]
KIM: So, how did you find me?
PARIS: I still have a few friends at Starfleet. They told me you were in some serious trouble.
KIM: Yeah. Starfleet thinks I'm a Maquis spy.
PARIS: I know the feeling. Those security anklets really chafe, don't they?
KIM: You're the last person I expected to help me.
PARIS: Let's just say it's been a long time since anybody gave a damn about my future, including me. I don't know if I'm supposed to be on Voyager like you've told me, but it sounds a whole lot better than the life I have here. I'm willing to take my chances, Ensign.
KIM: Call me Harry. You always did.
PARIS: Won't be long before they find us. We better keep moving.
KIM: Wait. I found a way to get back to my reality. The problem is I'll need a ship to do it. I think I have access to a runabout, but I'm going to have to break it out of Spacedock.
PARIS: Sounds to me like you need a pilot.
KIM: Know anyone who's qualified?
PARIS: I know someone who used to be pretty good. And if I'm not mistaken, he still knows a few tricks.
KIM: I have an office at Starfleet Headquarters. I think we can access the runabout launch codes from there.
PARIS: Site-to-site transporter. With friends like mine, you never know when it'll come in handy. Where's your office?
KIM: Main complex, level six, subsection forty seven.
PARIS: I can beam us in. But we'll only have a few minutes before Security starts kicking down the door.
KIM: Let's do it.

[Kim's office]
PARIS: So, Harry, once we're on board the runabout, what's the plan?
KIM: The alien said that if I recreate the conditions of the accident and fly into the time stream, there's a chance I might be able to get back into my reality.
PARIS: Might?
KIM: He couldn't give me any guarantees.
PARIS: Security's just been alerted to an unauthorized transport in the building. It'll take them another twenty seconds to track it to this office. How are you coming?
KIM: Almost there. I've bypassed the runabout's security lockouts.
PARIS: They're onto us. We've got to go.
KIM: Hold on. I almost got it.
PARIS: Now!

[Runabout Yellowstone]
KIM: Overriding initialisation codes. Main power coming online.
PARIS: Let's get those engines going.
KIM: Powering up main fusion reactor.
COMPUTER: Intruder alert. Unauthorized launch in progress.
PARIS: Space doors closing.
KIM: Warp core and main propulsion are online.
PARIS: Releasing docking clamps. Moorings clear. Here we go.
PARIS: We're clear.
KIM: I'm entering the coordinates of the time stream into the main computer.
PARIS: Adjusting course to match. Going to full impulse.
KIM: We've got a starship on our tail. Nebula class.
PARIS: I'll try to lose them, Harry, but they're a lot faster than we are.
MAN (voiceover): Attention runabout Yellowstone. Power down your engines or we will open fire.
KIM: They're going to try to do everything they can to stop us. They think we're trying to steal this prototype.
PARIS: They're closing to five thousand kilometers.
KIM: Shields down to seventy percent. Fifty percent.
KIM: Twenty nine percent.
PARIS: I thought you said this ship was new and improved.
KIM: It is, but it looks like they haven't finished working on the defensive systems. In fact, some of the safety interlocks aren't even in place. A few more of those hits and I don't.
KIM: We're losing antimatter containment. Attempting to stabilize the field.
PARIS: We're approaching the coordinates of the time stream.
KIM: The containment field is weakening. We could be looking at a core breach.
PARIS: The ship's closing to three thousand kilometers.
KIM: If we can't shake them off, maybe we can slow them down a little. This runabout is equipped with tetryon plasma warp nacelles.
PARIS: So?
KIM: Tetryon plasma emits multiflux gamma radiation. It disrupts subspace.
PARIS: We could vent the warp plasma. The second they hit the plasma cloud, their engines would stall. Give us a few seconds of breathing room.
KIM: Exactly.
PARIS: Unlocking the warp drive manifold.
KIM: Venting drive plasma.
PARIS: Any second. They've dropped to one tenth impulse. Our containment field's at critical. We'd better hurry.
KIM: All right. Let's recreate my shuttle accident. I think I was traveling at one hundred and forty thousand kph.
PARIS: You think?
KIM: Look, that was another lifetime. I'm doing the best I can.
PARIS: Increasing speed to one hundred and forty thousand kph.
KIM: Now, I also remember running a polaron scan. The scanning beam was sweeping at a radius of half a million kilometers. No, wait. A quarter million. Activating polaron scan. That should do it.
PARIS: Approaching coordinates. Impact in four, three, two.
KIM: Did we miss it?
PARIS: We passed through the coordinates, but the runabout was unaffected. The starship has repowered its engines. They'll be here in under a minute.
KIM: I have to get into that time stream. Wait a minute, I'm forgetting something. The emergency transport. The last thing I remember hearing was Captain Janeway's comm voice. She said she was trying to beam me off the shuttle. That's it. I've got to beam off the ship.
PARIS: Are you crazy?
KIM: We have to recreate all the conditions of the accident, including that one. We just lost antimatter containment. Twenty five seconds to core breach.
PARIS: I've locked onto the time stream. Get on the transporter pad.
KIM: Not yet. The core is breaching. We've got to shut it down first.
PARIS: There's no time. That ship'll be here in another thirty seconds.
KIM: In fifteen seconds this ship is going to explode. You'll be killed.
PARIS: Look. If you're right, then things will be changed back to the way they're supposed to be, and you'll find me back on Voyager.
KIM: And if I'm wrong, if this doesn't work, you'll be blown up right here.
PARIS: Go!

[Shuttlecraft Drake]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Voyager to shuttlecraft Drake. Prepare for emergency transport. Mister Kim, can you hear me? We're attempting to lock on to you. Harry?
KIM: Kim here, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Harry, we need you to drop your shields.
KIM: Stand by.

[Bridge]
KIM (voiceover): Shields down, Captain.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant.
TORRES: The anomaly is sending out heavy subspace distortions. I can't get a positive lock on him.
PARIS: The hull is starting to buckle under the stress. He won't survive much longer.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, can you boost the transporter signal?
TUVOK: Negative. The signal is at maximum gain.
PARIS: Ten seconds to hull breach.
JANEWAY: He's just out of reach. B'Elanna, can you tie the transporter directly into the main deflector dish? Use it to extend the signal?
TORRES: I'll try.
PARIS: Hull breach in progress.
TORRES: We've got him, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Chakotay, analyze the sensor logs. I want to know what happened out there.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Voyager to Transporter room two. Are you all right, Mister Kim?
KIM (voiceover): I think so, Captain. Is Lieutenant Paris there?
JANEWAY: Yes, he's here. Why?
KIM (voiceover): It's a long story.
JANEWAY: I look forward to hearing it. I'll be in my Ready room.
CHAKOTAY: We think your shuttlecraft was caught in some kind of temporal anomaly.
KIM: A time stream?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, you could call it that.
KIM: I've already been briefed, Commander.
PARIS: Welcome back. Kind of a rough ride, huh? What is it, Harry?
KIM: I owe you one.

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]
KES: Hello? Anybody here? Neelix?
ALL: Surprise!
NEELIX: Surprise! Happy birthday, my sweet.
JANEWAY: Happy birthday, Kes.
NEELIX: Imagine, two years old today. If you ask me, you don't look a day over one.
KES: Why was everyone hiding?
PARIS: Oh, it's an old Earth custom called a surprise party.
JANEWAY: Sorry if we startled you.
KES: No, I liked it. It was very exhilarating.
NEELIX: Now, how about a glass of my special birthday punch? Garçon?
EMH: On the rocks or straight up?
KES: Doctor! I'm so glad you're here.
SANDRINE: My new bartender. Handsome, isn't he?
EMH: I'm here in an official capacity, of course. In case of a medical emergency.
KES: Emergency?
EMH: Surprises have been known to cause acute hyperventilation, oesophageal spasms and in extreme cases, even coronary arrest. One can never be too careful.

[Bridge]
KIM: I've completed the sensor diagnostic, Lieutenant. All systems are fully operational.
TUVOK: Very good, Ensign.
KIM: And I've recalibrated the accelerometer relays.
TUVOK: Acknowledged.
KIM: Is there anything else I can do for you, sir?
TUVOK: I presume this notable impatience is due to your desire to attend the festivities in Holodeck two.
KIM: Yes, sir.
TUVOK: May I remind you that your duty shift does not officially terminate for another thirty four minutes? However, I believe the holodeck power conduits would benefit from a routine inspection.
KIM: Yes, sir! I'll get right on it.
TUVOK: All stop. Mister Kim.
KIM: What is that?
TUVOK: Magnify. I am afraid that holodeck inspection will have to wait, Ensign.

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]
NEELIX: Wait till you taste this cake. Seven layers of Jibelian fudge, and the icing is made from pureed l'maki nuts, Kes's favorite.
JANEWAY: Now make a wish and blow out the candles.
KES: What do I wish for?
SANDRINE: Anything your petit coeur desires, ma cherie. And with a figure like hers, she'll probably get it too.
KES: Okay, I wish for
TORRES: Don't tell us! The wish has to be a secret if it's going to come true.
GAUNT GARY: I hate to interrupt this tender little moment, Tommy boy, but don't you think it's about time we shot a rack?
PARIS: In a minute. Birthday gifts are also an Earth tradition.
KES: Oh, thank you, Tom. You didn't have to.
PARIS: Hey, who am I to fly in the face of tradition?
KES: Tom, it's beautiful. It must have cost you a week's worth of replicator rations.
PARIS: Two weeks actually, but who's counting? I'm just glad you like it.
JANEWAY: May I? Oh, that's lovely. You see, it's a locket. You put little photographs in here. It keeps the people you love close to your heart.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you.
NEELIX: Did you see that?
CHAKOTAY: See what?
NEELIX: He. He. He did a lovely wrapping job, don't you think?
TUVOK (voiceover): Bridge to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Lieutenant.
TUVOK (voiceover): Captain, we have encountered an unusual phenomenon. Phenomenon. Phenomenon. Phenomenon. Phenomenon. Phenomenon. Phenomenon. Phenomenon. Phenomenon. Phenomenon. Phenomenon. Phenomenon.
JANEWAY: What is going on, Lieutenant?
TORRES: It might simply be a localized malfunction, but I've never heard anything like it. My guess is
TORRES: It's a problem with the comm. system itself.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Bridge. Get down to Engineering and run a diagnostic. I'm afraid we're going to have to cut your party short, Kes. Stations, everyone. Let's move.
NEELIX: But, but, what about the Jibelian fudge cake?
JANEWAY: Save me a slice, won't you?

[Bridge]
KIM: These readings indicate the space ahead of us is literally changing shape. My best guess is it's some type of spatial distortion wave.
TUVOK: Is the anomaly responsible for the comm. system malfunction?
KIM: I think so. It's generating intense pulses of EM radiation, and if we don't get out of its way, it's going to intercept us in less than ten minutes.
TUVOK: Acknowledged. Full reverse, Ensign.
CREWWOMAN: Aye, sir.
KIM: We can't go backwards either, Mister Tuvok. The distortion has completely surrounded us like a ring.
TUVOK: If we can not go around it, then we will have to go through it.
KIM: There's no telling what that will do to the ship.
TUVOK: From what you have told me, Ensign, the distortion ring will make contact with us momentarily whether we attempt to pass through it or not. I prefer to minimize the amount of time that contact lasts. Shields at maximum. Warp three. Engage.
KIM: The distortion ring has collapsed the warp field. Engines are offline.
TUVOK: Find the Captain and inform her of our status.
KIM: Yes, sir.

[Corridor]
BAXTER: Ensign Kim, I've been trying to report a problem in the gym, but the comm. system seems to be down.
KIM: We've encountered a spatial distortion. It's knocked out several systems.
BAXTER: Maybe that explains why the gym got so cold.
KIM: Cold?
BAXTER: I didn't notice it at first. I was working out so hard. Then I realized it was under ten degrees C. The environmental controls didn't respond to my commands and neither did the comm. system.
KIM: Engines are offline too. I'm looking for the Captain to let her know what's going on.
BAXTER: Should I report to my duty station?
KIM: It might not be a bad idea. Until we find out exactly what's going on, everybody should be on standby.
BAXTER: I'll round up my security team.

[Turbolift]
JANEWAY: The first thing I want to do when we get to the Bridge is establish a remote comm. link to Engineering. I want to know exactly what's going on.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Where are we?
PARIS: Deck four.
CHAKOTAY: If the comm. system's malfunctioning, the computer could be misreading our voice commands.
PARIS: That might explain why it took us here instead of the Bridge.
JANEWAY: We'd better try setting the controls manually.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Did you enjoy your first surprise party, sweeting?
KES: It was wonderful. Thank you.
NEELIX: I thought you'd like it. The cake, the presents. What was your favorite part?
KES: I suppose what I liked best was that all my friends were there.
NEELIX: Ah, that was nice, wasn't it? And don't forget that beautiful necklace Tom Paris gave you.
KES: Do you really like it?
NEELIX: Oh, why wouldn't I like it? Paris obviously has excellent taste.
KES: I was afraid you might be a little jealous.
NEELIX: Who, me? Don't be silly.
KES: Are you sure?
NEELIX: You, my dearest, have seen the last of that green-eyed pus hog called jealousy.
KES: I'm glad.
NEELIX: Of course, Paris did replicate that locket, whereas I baked the Jibelian fudge cake from scratch.
KES: These aren't my quarters. Did we take a wrong turn somewhere?
NEELIX: I was just following you.

[Mess hall]
CREWMAN: Is everything all right, Lieutenant?
TORRES: This isn't Engineering.

[Turbolift]
JANEWAY: And have someone take a look at the turbolift voice receptors, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: This is Engineering. What's going on here?
CHAKOTAY: It looks like we're dealing with more than just a comm. system malfunction.
JANEWAY: Computer, Bridge.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: Baxter, what are you doing here?
BAXTER: I wish I knew. I'm trying to get to the cargo bay.
TORRES: And I'm trying to get to Engineering.
BAXTER: I can't find the cargo bay, and I can't find my security team. I've been wandering around for about ten minutes.
TORRES: Well, at least I know I'm not crazy. Unless we both are.
BAXTER: No, something very strange is going on. Ensign Kim said we'd encountered a spatial distortion.
TORRES: Did he say what kind?
BAXTER: No, he went to find the Captain.
TORRES: The Captain is on her way to the Bridge. But if she's having the same trouble we are, who knows if she can get there. I'm going to keep trying to get to Engineering.
BAXTER: Good luck.

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]
EMH: The holodeck again?
SANDRINE: Ah ha!
EMH: This is infuriating.
SANDRINE: Oh, stop playing games, ma cherie. I know why you keep coming back to work, even though your bartending shift is over. It's to see me, of course.
EMH: How many times do I have to tell you, madam? I am a doctor, not a bartender.
SANDRINE: Of course you are.
KIM: Doc?
EMH: Ensign Kim. I was just, er
SANDRINE: Playing doctor. Hi.
EMH: The Captain and the others went to investigate the phenomenon Mister Tuvok reported.
KIM: So all of you heard his report before the comm. system failed?
EMH: Only a fraction of it.
KIM: Well, I'm sure Tuvok's filled them in with the rest by now. What are you still doing on the holodeck, besides playing doctor, that is?
EMH: For your information, I have been attempting to transfer myself back to Sickbay. But each time I try, I reappear here.
KIM: That's strange.
EMH: Not to mention extremely irritating. I can't seem to shut down Mister Paris's holoprogram either.
KIM: Computer, end holodeck program Paris Three. Computer, arch. Either the holoemitters are malfunctioning or the computer's not accepting voice commands. I'm sorry, Doctor. I don't have time to help you right now.
EMH: Wait just a minute.
KIM: Hmm?
EMH: What do you think you're going.
KIM: I've got to get back to the Bridge. We're in the middle of a crisis.
EMH: All the more reason I should be back in Sickbay. I'm sure that the Captain and the others will be able to do without you for a few more minutes.
KIM: I guess you're right. I'll have a look at the holocontrols.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Kyoto's quarters. Nicoletti. Hargrove. Ayala.
KES: None of those are anywhere near my quarters.
NEELIX: This is deck eight. That's where your quarters are.
KES: But Hargrove and Ayala are on deck seven. Nicoletti is on four and I think Kyoto is on six.
NEELIX: How do you know where everyone's quarters are?
KES: I just remember.
NEELIX: Remember from what? Have you been in all their quarters?
KES: Of course not. The point is, those quarters can't all be on the same deck.
NEELIX: Well, see for yourself.
KES: This can't be.
NEELIX: Perhaps, sweeting, your memory isn't as reliable as you think.
KES: This is impossible. I know Hargrove is on seven.
NEELIX: Why Hargrove?
KES: What?
NEELIX: Why are you so sure about Hargrove's quarters? What makes him so special?
KES: He's not special. I just remember where his quarters are. This way. It has to be this way.

[Outside the holodeck]
TORRES: Harry.
KIM: B'Elanna, shouldn't you be in Engineering? What are you doing here?
TORRES: Just answer one question, Starfleet. Where is here?
KIM: What?
TORRES: Where am I?
KIM: Outside Holodeck two. Are you feeling okay?
TORRES: I have been walking in circles for the past twenty minutes trying to get to Engineering.
NEELIX: Kes, my sweet, you have many wonderful attributes. Your sense of direction is not one of them, because. Oh, er, Harry, B'Elanna. Maybe you can help us. I know you'll find this hard to believe, but we can't seem to find Kes's quarters.
PARIS: I don't suppose anyone here knows the way to the Bridge?

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]
JANEWAY: Let me get this straight. This distortion ring has completely immobilized us. We have no means of communication with the Bridge or any other part of the ship. And no matter where any of us have tried to go, the Bridge, Engineering, Kes's quarters, we've all eventually ended up here right back at deck six.
KIM: The bridge is on deck one. Engineering is on deck eleven. deck six is halfway in between, right?
CHAKOTAY: So?
KIM: So if we're being surrounded by this ring, maybe it's pushing us all to the center of the ship.
TORRES: But it's not just that we're being led back here. I mean, rooms are in the wrong place. Is it possible that this distortion ring is somehow changing the layout of the ship?
EMH: There is another possibility. Exposure to some types of EM radiation has been known to cause hallucinations. Perhaps it's not the ship that's undergone changes but rather your perception of it. Unfortunately, without my medical equipment to analyze your optic nerves, there's no way to tell.
JANEWAY: We'll never figure it out sitting here. We need more information about this phenomenon. Sensor readings, computer analyzes. We have to find a way back to the Bridge.
TORRES: If we can't get back on foot or on the turbolift, maybe we can rig a site to site transport. Beam ourselves to the Bridge.
CHAKOTAY: We'd have to get to a transporter room first.
TORRES: Or to Engineering, wherever that is.
PARIS: When we tried to go to the Bridge, one of the places the turbolift took us was Engineering. Maybe if we repeated our steps, it'll take us back there.
JANEWAY: It's worth a shot. Lieutenant Paris, you're with Torres.
KIM: Maybe we can get to the Bridge through a Jefferies tube. If I remember my ship specs correctly, there should be an emergency access conduit which leads directly from this deck to deck one right behind the Bridge.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like to keep trying to get to the Bridge on foot. If the ship has been reconfigured somehow, I can get a deck by deck picture of what it looks like as I go.
PARIS: What's going to keep you from getting lost?
CHAKOTAY: I'll get a tricorder from the storage locker, rig it to emit a photoplasmic trail.
JANEWAY: Right. We should all get tricorders. Set them on active scan. Gather as much information as we can about what's happening to the ship.
EMH: May I request that Kes be allowed to stay here with me? Beside helping stave off the predatory advances of that woman, she may be able to help me find a way to transfer myself back to Sickbay.
NEELIX: And, er, I'll assist Commander Chakotay, Captain. As you may have heard, my tracking skills are legendary throughout the quadrant.
JANEWAY: That all right with you, Commander? Mister Kim, I'm with you. Let's do it.
KES: Be careful.

[Turbolift]
TORRES: Are you sure this is how you got there before?
PARIS: Relax, will you? So far, we're right on schedule. The next stop should be

[Engineering]
PARIS: Voila! Engineering.
TORRES: Finally! Let's get to work. We've got an emergency situation on board ship. I don't have time to go into details. But you're all to remain at your posts until otherwise notified, whether or not your duty shifts are over. Ensign, prepare to configure transporter systems for a site to site transport. I've got to reset the pattern buffer controls. In the meantime, why don't you check the targeting scanners?
TORRES: Crewman! There's an emergency situation aboard ship. Just stay right where you are. That's an order.
PARIS: I think you handled that very well, Lieutenant.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Commander, I would imagine you've had some experience with women.
CHAKOTAY: Some.
NEELIX: Oh, come now. Ha! A handsome man like you. I bet women find you irresistible.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix, what's this about?
NEELIX: Er, er, er, have you, er, but have you ever been jealous?
CHAKOTAY: Of course.
NEELIX: You have?
CHAKOTAY: I imagine most people who've been in love have been jealous at one time or another.
NEELIX: I see. It's a perfectly normal response. Then why, why is it so unpleasant?
CHAKOTAY: Jealousy's about the fear of losing someone we love. There's no pain greater than that. Neelix, are you afraid you're going to lose Kes to someone?
NEELIX: No. I mean, I don't think so. At least I certainly hope not. I just can't seem to stop these awful feelings.
CHAKOTAY: Nothing makes us more vulnerable than when we love someone. We can be hurt very easily. But I've always believed that what you get when you love someone is greater than what you risk.
BAXTER: Commander, am I ever glad to see you. Do you have any idea what's going on here?
CHAKOTAY: Not exactly.
BAXTER: Well, I feel like I've been wandering around for hours. I can't find the cargo bay.
CHAKOTAY: Have you seen anyone else? Any more of the crew?
BAXTER: Some people roaming around like me. A couple of times I wound up in the Mess Hall. There were quite a few people there.
CHAKOTAY: I suggest you make your way back. Tell everyone you run into to come with you, and all of you stay put in the Mess Hall. When we figure out what's going on, we'll let you know.
BAXTER: Aye, Commander.
TUVOK: Gentlemen.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, what are you doing here?
TUVOK: That is an interesting question, Commander. I am not certain how I arrived at this location.
CHAKOTAY: You're lost too.
TUVOK: Indeed. When I received no word from you or the Captain, I left Lieutenant Ayala in command and came to look for you myself.
CHAKOTAY: Can you lead us back to the Bridge?
TUVOK: I do not believe so. When I first realized I was lost, I attempted to retrace my steps only to find myself here.
CHAKOTAY: None of us has been able to reach the Bridge. In fact, Neelix and I can't seem to get off deck six.
TUVOK: Strange, I thought we were on deck three.
CHAKOTAY: What was our status when you left the Bridge?
TUVOK: The ring has penetrated our shields and is now in direct contact with the hull.
CHAKOTAY: Then maybe it is possible the distortions are somehow reconfiguring the ship.
TUVOK: As improbable as it sounds, that would appear to be the case.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix, let's go. Neelix?

[Jefferies tube]
KIM: I don't understand it. We should have found the hatch to the Bridge ten minutes ago. I feel like we're crawling in circles.
JANEWAY: But we haven't, at least not according to this tricorder. Odd.
KIM: What is it?
JANEWAY: A very faint electromagnetic reading. Now it's gone. There it is from another direction.
KIM: Yeah, I'm getting it too.
JANEWAY: It comes and goes, jumps from place to place.
KIM: Could it be evidence of the ship's reconfiguration?
JANEWAY: Possibly. We'll have to compare this data with readings the others get. Harry?
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: I just want you to know you've been one of the bright spots of this whole mission. You've exceeded any expectations I might have had of you.
KIM: Thank you, Captain. I appreciate that. Wait a minute. Down there. I think that's the conduit leading to the Bridge.
JANEWAY: Good work. Maybe now we'll get some answers.
KIM: That's the hatch, Captain. This should let us out in the cargo hold directly behind the Bridge.
JANEWAY: It's not working.
KIM: We better try it manually.
JANEWAY: It's stuck.
KIM: Captain!
JANEWAY: I can't get my arm out!
JANEWAY: I think I'm okay.
KIM: I'm reading an intense electromagnetic charge on the other side of that hatch. That must have been what was pulling you in.
JANEWAY: It's as if everything on the other side is in a state of structural flux. The walls, the atmosphere.
KIM: And the sequence of those fluctuations matches the readings from the distortion ring. This phenomenon isn't just occurring in space. It's definitely inside the ship as well.
JANEWAY: We're going to have to regroup and come up with a plan for combating this thing.
KIM: Captain, what's wrong?
JANEWAY: I don't know. Oh! Oh, my eyes!
KIM: Captain? Captain!

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]
GARY: Come on, pal. One lousy game. Spot you six balls.
EMH: I'm not programmed to play games.
SANDRINE: If he won't play pool with you and he won't make love to me, then as far as I'm concerned, he can mop the floor.
EMH: You see these hands? These are surgeon's hands, created by the most sophisticated computer imaging technology available. They do not play games, and they do not mop floors.
SANDRINE: Then you are fired. I will find a new bartender.
EMH: I really wish you would.
KES: Doctor!
EMH: Oh, please tell me you've had some success in reinitializing the holoemitters.
KES: I did exactly what you told me, but it didn't work.
EMH: Of course not.
KES: I'm starting to get worried about Neelix. What's taking them so long?
SANDRINE: Ah, trust me, cherie. You are better off without him. All men are alike. In the end, they always break your heart.
KIM: Can I get some help here?
EMH: What happened to her?
KIM: She came into contact with the spatial distortions in the Jefferies Tube. She seemed fine for a couple of minutes, but then she started to fade in and out of consciousness.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: I believe we should go this way, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: What makes you say that?
TUVOK: If we are indeed trapped in some sort of labyrinth, then the logical course is to systematically eliminate all routes which do not lead us to our desired destination. The route that remains will be the correct one. Since we have been making a series of right turns, we should continue to do so, until we are certain this path is not the proper one.
CHAKOTAY: There's a flaw in your logic.
TUVOK: How so, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: You're assuming there's a logical pattern to this maze we're caught in, but so far I haven't seen any evidence of that.
TUVOK: Even within chaotic systems, there is a pattern of limited predictability.
CHAKOTAY: By the time we figure that pattern out, these distortions may have completely overrun the ship.
TUVOK: That is a possibility.
CHAKOTAY: The important thing is for at least one of us to make it back to the Bridge. So why don't you go your way and I'll go mine? That way we'll increase the chances that one of us will be successful.
TUVOK: As you wish, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Tell me something, Tuvok. What does your logic tell you about navigating a maze that's constantly changing shape?

[Engineering]
PARIS: Scanners check out.
TORRES: Then we're ready to give it a try. Activate the auxiliary pattern buffers.
PARIS: Pattern buffers activated.
TORRES: Targeting the Bridge coordinates. Scanners locked. Energize.

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]
GAUNT GARY: Would you mind moving your foot, Tommy boy? It's blocking my shot.
CHAKOTAY: Tell me you already made it to the Bridge, and you've come back here to give us a status report.
TORRES: We locked onto the Bridge coordinates, but this is where we ended up. None of you had any luck either?
TUVOK: Not only has no one been able to reach the Bridge, but the Captain came into contact with the spatial distortion and is now unconscious.
CHAKOTAY: That's not all. We lost Neelix too.
PARIS: Lost him?
CHAKOTAY: He turned a corner, and he was just gone. We think the spatial distortions are continuously changing the configuration of the corridors.
TORRES: Kes must be worried sick.
KIM: And it isn't just Neelix who's missing. Where's the rest of the crew?
TUVOK: It is likely that they too are trapped in other parts of the ship, cut off from communication and unable to find their way out.
PARIS: So what do we do now?
CHAKOTAY: This wave is obviously causing some kind of radical reconfiguration of the ship. We've got to try to reverse it. If not, we may never be able to get to the Bridge.
TORRES: How are we supposed to reverse something we don't understand? No matter where we go, we end up here. Corridors are realigning. Rooms are in the wrong place. What's the pattern?
TUVOK: We would certainly benefit from having an accurate picture of what the ship currently looks like. That way we would have a better chance of getting where we want to go.
KIM: Maybe we could make a map.
CHAKOTAY: Ensign?
KIM: One good thing about all the wandering we've been doing is that we've been collecting a lot of tricorder data about the structural changes that have been taking place.
TORRES: And if we fed all that information into the central database, the computer might be able to extrapolate a schematic of the ship as it's configured now.
CHAKOTAY: What are we waiting for?

[Outside the holodeck]
KIM: The computer has analyzed all our tricorder data, so this ought to be pretty close to what it looks like now.
PARIS: It's as if the entire ship is being compressed and twisted.
TORRES: My guess is it's more than just a distortion ring. It looks like some sort of spatial implosion that's slowly crushing us.
CHAKOTAY: Look, this part of the ship seems unaffected.
KIM: That's deck six where we are.
TUVOK: Correct, Ensign. However, the area we occupying will not remain unaffected indefinitely.
CHAKOTAY: How long?
TUVOK: Based on the rate of implosion thus far, I estimate the ring will crush deck six in approximately sixty eight minutes.

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]
PARIS: Is this implosion ring some kind of weapon? Are we under attack?
KIM: Who'd want to attack us and why?
TUVOK: There is no clear evidence of an intelligence behind the phenomenon. It is still possible we are dealing with a naturally occurring anomaly which does not conform to the known laws of physics.
TORRES: Don't you think it's a little late to be speculating on who or what this thing is? The important thing now is that we find out some way of stopping it.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna's right. It seems to me we've got two options. One, we find a way to get ourselves out of this implosion ring, or two, we find some way of reversing it.
KIM: Invert the effect. Turn the implosion into an explosion.
CHAKOTAY: Exactly.
TORRES: If I can get back to Engineering, I may be able to generate a shock pulse strong enough to do just that. Of course, I'd have to raise the pressure in the warp core to near critical.
KIM: A shock pulse of that magnitude would create a subatomic particle shower all over the ship.
TUVOK: Which could set off a chain reaction that would cause not only the ring to explode outward but Voyager along with it.
TORRES: Not if I can precisely tune the shock pulse to the distortion frequency of the ring.
TUVOK: That would be exceptionally difficult.
TORRES: If we don't give this a try, we're going to get crushed anyway. Personally, I'd rather go down fighting.
TUVOK: I must remind you that with the comm. system down, we will have no effective means of alerting the rest of the crew to a potentially lethal particle shower.
CHAKOTAY: Do you have another suggestion, Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: I believe it would be safer to attempt to access the navigational array and from there engage thrusters to steer us out of the ring.
KIM: Can't we try both?
TORRES: It's much too dangerous to have someone working at the navigational array during a shock pulse.
PARIS: Besides, this ship is so contorted, there's no reason to expect we'd have any navigational control.
CHAKOTAY: All right, B'Elanna. Let's give your plan a shot. You
TUVOK: Commander Chakotay?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, Lieutenant?
TUVOK: I feel compelled to point out that in my many years of experience as Captain Janeway's tactical officer, she often demonstrated a tendency to follow my
CHAKOTAY: In case you haven't noticed, Captain Janeway's not in any condition to make decisions. I'm in command. Is that understood?
TUVOK: Yes, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Good. B'Elanna, you and Harry get down to Engineering. Evacuate whoever's on duty, then initiate the warp pulse. Move it.

[Engineering]
KIM: Dilithium matrix stable. Matter-antimatter reactor is at eighty percent of critical.
TORRES: Let's keep it that way!
KIM: Warp core pressure is at thirty six megapascals and rising.
TORRES: When it reaches fifty three, it'll trigger the shock pulse. We should get out of here by the time it hits fifty!
KIM: Acknowledged! Pressure at forty one megapascals and rising. I'm reading a microfracture in the dilithium matrix.
TORRES: Attempting to compensate.
KIM: Fracture sealed. Forty four megapascals!

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]
CHAKOTAY: They're heating up the warp core. They must be close to initiating the shock burst. Everybody take cover.

[Engineering]
KIM: Forty seven! Forty eight! Forty nine!
TORRES: Let's move!

[Corridor]
TORRES: Well, in spite of Tuvok's dire predictions, we haven't blown the ship to pieces, have we?
KIM: No, and radiation levels are within acceptable tolerance.
TORRES: Good. Let's get in there and see if we had any luck dispersing this implosion ring.
KIM: Hold it!
TORRES: What?
KIM: I'm reading a massive distortion behind the door.
TORRES: I don't think it's just behind the door.
KIM: The ring's completely engulfed Engineering.

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]
CHAKOTAY: Can I talk to her?
EMH: I can't guarantee she'll hear you, or be able to understand you if she does.
CHAKOTAY: Captain!
JANEWAY: Dark. Gan.
CHAKOTAY: What's wrong with her?
EMH: It's possible the spatial distortions have damaged her speech center, her neural pathways.
TORRES: Chakotay, it didn't work.
KIM: Instead of forcing the implosion outward, the pulse is drawing it in at a faster rate.
PARIS: You're saying it made things worse?
KIM: I don't think we have more than a few minutes.
TORRES: Paris, we have to get to the navigational array and give Tuvok's plan a try.
TUVOK: I'm afraid there's no longer time for that.
TORRES: Why not?
PARIS: We're not going anywhere.
PARIS: Do you really think it's possible to project a stable holographic force field?
TORRES: We've tried everything else. Ready? Here we go.
TUVOK: The distortion is unaffected by the force field.
TORRES: We've got to figure out a way to generate a stable field.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, this ring has passed through the shields, crushed the hull, twisted the ship. We'll never get enough power from the holoemitters to stop it.
TORRES: What are you saying? We're out of options?
TUVOK: Perhaps not. So far, we have been unsuccessful in all our attempts to either explain or combat this phenomenon. And according to my calculations, the space we are currently occupying will implode in approximately three minutes seventeen seconds.
TORRES: You said there was another option.
TUVOK: We do nothing.
TORRES: Excuse me?
CHAKOTAY: Are you suggesting we just let it crush us?
TUVOK: Precisely.
TORRES: I can't believe I'm hearing this from you.
CHAKOTAY: I agree. It sounds completely illogical.
TUVOK: On the contrary. When every logical course of action is exhausted, the only option that remains is inaction.
TORRES: So we're just supposed to sit here and let this thing kill us?
TUVOK: I must point out that at least one attempt we made to reverse the effect, the shock pulse, only made our predicament worse. If we continue desperately improvising solutions, our own efforts may ultimately kill us. On the other hand, there is no definitive evidence to suggest that doing nothing will result in death.
JANEWAY: Is dogin do be to gandin!
EMH: Captain, please lie down.
TORRES: What about the Captain? She's dying.
TUVOK: We do not know that. At the moment, she is merely delirious.
TORRES: Chakotay, you're in charge here. Don't you agree we've got to keep trying?
CHAKOTAY: Whatever this thing is, B'Elanna, it's bigger and more powerful than we are. Maybe, maybe this is one bear we can't wrestle to the ground. Maybe like Tuvok says there's nothing we can do but let it happen, and hope for the best.
TORRES: Fine. Fine, Chakotay. Have it your way.
TUVOK: Commander Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: I want to thank you for endorsing my recommendation.
CHAKOTAY: You know, Tuvok, I may not get another chance to say this. Sometimes I find you arrogant and irritating, but you're a hell of an officer.
TUVOK: Thank you, sir. And since we are speaking candidly, may I say, sir, that I have not always been particularly partial to your methods either.
CHAKOTAY: I suppose it must have been tough for you to accept my being elevated to first officer over you.
TUVOK: I have always respected Captain Janeway's decisions. However, I suppose that particular decision did put me in a position I am unaccustomed to. If that ever caused me to make things more difficult for you, I must apologize.
KIM: Can I ask you a question?
PARIS: Fire away, Harry.
KIM: Are you afraid?
PARIS: I chose this life. And I guess I always knew it could come to this. But yeah, I'm afraid.
KIM: Me too.
KES: I'm so worried about Neelix. I should be with him.
EMH: As much as he may annoy me at times, Mister Neelix is one of the most resourceful and resilient individuals I know. If anyone can survive this calamity, he can.
TORRES: Hi.
CHAKOTAY: Hi.
TORRES: What are you doing?
CHAKOTAY: I'm trying to contact my spirit guide.
TORRES: Why?
CHAKOTAY: Who knows what's going to happen when that ring hits us. We might be in for another long journey.
TORRES: I guess I could use a little spiritual guidance myself right now. Mind if I join you?
CHAKOTAY: I thought you'd never ask.
EMH: Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm all right.
EMH: You were delirious.
JANEWAY: It was some sort of message.
CHAKOTAY: What was?
JANEWAY: The spatial distortion. It was trying to communicate with us.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I want a full systems report. And Mister Kim, Mister Tuvok, I want every iota of information that was recorded regarding that phenomenon.
PARIS: The distortion ring's directly ahead, Captain. It's moving away from us at two thousand kph.
CHAKOTAY: We've got a full crew complement, Captain. No injuries reported.
TORRES: No damage to the hull or ship systems.
JANEWAY: Incredible.
TORRES: You're not going to believe this, Captain, but twenty million gigaquads of new information have been input into the ship's computer.
JANEWAY: Where did it come from?
TORRES: My guess is it came from the distortion ring.
JANEWAY: Somebody's definitely trying to tell us something.
TORRES: That's not all, Captain. Our entire database has been copied and downloaded into somebody else's system.
CHAKOTAY: I guess whoever they were, they want to know everything they can about us too.
JANEWAY: Maybe it was their only way of communicating with us. Maybe they were just trying to say hello.
NEELIX: Cake, anyone?
KES: Neelix, what happened to you?
NEELIX: Oh, it's a long story. I'll tell you all about it later. Right now, it's time to finish your party.
KES: Neelix, I need a photograph of you.
NEELIX: What for, sweeting?
KES: From now on, even when we're separated, I want to have you where I can keep my eye on you.
NEELIX: Happy birthday, Kes.

[Holodeck - Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: Inertial dampers have failed.
KES: I can't get any response from the field coils.
PARIS: Did you verify the control inputs?
KES: Stand by. The inputs have locked. We've got to flush the plasma injectors. Or maybe it's just a phase synchronization adjustment.
PARIS: Plasma injectors.
KES: Plasma injectors. Right.
PARIS: Field coils responding. Inertial dampers back online.
KES: That was not fair.
PARIS: As your flight instructor, it's my duty to prepare you for anything, fair or not.
KES: Clogging someone's plasma injectors is a dirty trick.
PARIS: Yes, well, I'm famous for my dirty tricks, you know?
KES: What was that?
PARIS: I never said the simulation was finished.
KES: Computer, evasive maneuvers.

[Corridor]
KES: I'll be ready for anything next time.
PARIS: Oh, ho! Sounds like a challenge to me.

[Ready Room]
JANEWAY: Come in. I hope you have good news, Commander. Based on this inventory, our food reserves look to be down to thirty percent of capacity.
CHAKOTAY: Good news and bad. We have located an M class planet, and it shows high amino acid and protein readings.
JANEWAY: That should indicate a healthy plant life. What's bad about it?
CHAKOTAY: It's a full day out of our way.
JANEWAY: I don't think we have any choice. It's the first chance we've had to replenish our supplies in weeks.
CHAKOTAY: And our long range sensors can't confirm any plant life on the surface.
JANEWAY: Why not?
CHAKOTAY: It's one strange planet, Captain. It's shrouded. Vapors cover it like a curtain. EM disturbances all over the atmosphere.
JANEWAY: Some of these readings suggest a planet early in its evolution, almost like a primeval Earth.
CHAKOTAY: The people in Stellar Cartography have already nicknamed it Planet Hell.
JANEWAY: So it might be a wild goose chase.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I don't know what we'll find when we get to the surface. Flora or fauna, friend or foe.
JANEWAY: If we knew we'd find another M class planet soon, I'd. Set a course for Planet Hell, Commander.

[Kim's quarters]
PARIS: That was you?
KIM: That was me.
PARIS: I'm impressed.
KIM: I keep hearing my mother say, practice, Harry, practice. So I ate Neelix's food for a week and used my replicator rations.
PARIS: Play something for me.
KIM: Well, I've only had it for a few days, and I don't think
PARIS: Oh, come on. Play something. Just pretend I'm not here.
PARIS: Play something different.
KIM: Different?
PARIS: Something not so cheerful.
KIM: Why?
PARIS: What, you don't take requests?
KIM: Something bothering you, Paris?
PARIS: Oh, Harry. I'm in trouble.
KIM: What's new?
PARIS: I think I'm in love.
KIM: What's new?
PARIS: With Kes.
KIM: Kes!
PARIS: I know. I know. I never even saw it coming. I thought we were just good buddies. But there she was in my arms.
KIM: In your arms? Paris, you didn't.
PARIS: What? Oh, no. I didn't. I wouldn't. She stumbled during a flight simulation. I caught her. I held her for an instant. Are you going to play or not?
PARIS: A whole crew full of women and I have to fall for the one I can't have. Why do I do this to my self?
KIM: If you ask me, I say you enjoy it.
PARIS: Enjoy it?
KIM: Only thing that makes sense. You've been doing the same thing to yourself your whole life. Setting yourself up for rejection. You must enjoy playing the part.
PARIS: Hey, don't knock it if you haven't tried it. I just have to be more careful. I can't let myself be alone with her.
KIM: There's an old Chinese expression. Stay out of harm's way.
PARIS: That's not a Chinese expression.
KIM: If it works, use it.
PARIS: Of course, it would help a little if Kes and I weren't going to be stuck on the same ship for the rest of our lives.
KIM: That's a pessimistic view.
PARIS: I'm in a pessimistic mood. Play something pessimistic. Practice, Harry, practice.

[Kes's quarters]
KES: And then suddenly we fell into a subspace anomaly. None of the readings made any sense. I didn't know what to do!
NEELIX: It must have been terrible for you. Pepper, sweeting.
KES: Ah. Anyway, it was quite a learning experience.
NEELIX: I'm sure Lieutenant Paris is a fine teacher. Oh! I almost forgot the Palliantyne peas. Ever so lightly spiced.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Analysis.
CHAKOTAY: High levels of trigemic vapors, but it should still support humanoid life.
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to Bridge. Please turn to your Emergency Medical Holographic Channel.
EMH (screen): I hope you don't mind that I've been eavesdropping, but I have something important to contribute.
JANEWAY: What is it, Doctor?
EMH (screen): Of course, it wouldn't be necessary for me to eavesdrop if I were included in these discussions as a matter of operating protocol.
JANEWAY: Doctor.
EMH (screen): You should be aware that trigemic vapors at the recorded levels can cause severe humanoid skin irritations.
CHAKOTAY: Could you provide some sort of skin protection that might help?
EMH (screen): I am whipping up a batch of dermal osmotic sealant as we speak. Nevertheless, skin exposure to the atmosphere should be limited.
JANEWAY: Noted, Doctor. Thank you. Tell me, just how often do you eavesdrop?
EMH (screen): I am simply trying to monitor issues involving the health of the crew, Captain. When activated, the Emergency Medical Program establishes comm. links with all key areas of the ship, and I have, on occasion. I am a Doctor, not a voyeur. I am programmed to be discreet.
JANEWAY: I'm sure. Commander Chakotay will discuss operating protocols with you at the earliest opportunity. In the meantime, no more eavesdropping, Doctor.
EMH (screen): But Captain, I, I, I
JANEWAY: That's an order.
TORRES: There's another problem, Captain. We won't be able to transport to the surface because of the EM disturbances in the atmosphere. They'll interfere with our comm. links too.
CHAKOTAY: I'll have Mister Kim take a look.

[Mess hall]
KIM: Listen, why don't we take in a holodeck program later? A Moliere comedy. That'll cheer you up.
PARIS: I think I'll just eat later.
PARIS: Damn.
KIM: What do you want to do?
PARIS: Very simple. We just won't sit with her.
KIM: But that's rude.
PARIS: No, that's smart. We'll make it look like we have bridge operations to discuss.
NEELIX: Gentlemen. May I recommend the Alfarian hair pasta today?
KIM: Hair pasta? That is just an expression, isn't it?
NEELIX: Not at all. It's actually made from the follicles of the mature Alfarian. We harvest the hair during shedding season in early fall. It's very high in protein.
PARIS: Whatever. We just have a lot of bridge operations business to discuss. Yeah.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Mister Kim, please report to the Bridge.
KIM: Have a nice lunch.
NEELIX: You subclass genus.
PARIS: I beg your pardon?
NEELIX: Sitting with your backs to each other like two strangers waiting for a transport. Was that supposed to fool me?
PARIS: Oh, a guy just can't win. Look, there is nothing to fool you about. Really. I swear.
NEELIX: Liar.
PARIS: What the hell are you doing?
NEELIX: I'll kill you!
PARIS: It's too late. I'm betting your hair pasta already did the trick.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Lieutenant Paris and Mister Neelix.
PARIS: Go ahead.
NEELIX: Yes, Captain?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Please report to my Ready room right away. I have something important to discuss with you.
PARIS: Er, Captain, did you say right away? If we could have
JANEWAY (voiceover): That's what I said, Mister Paris. Janeway out.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Would anyone care to explain?
PARIS: It might be too long to go into right now, Captain.
JANEWAY: Very well. I have a mission for the two of you. We have reason to believe that there are food sources on this planet, but we can't transport to the surface. You're going to take a shuttle down and do a little scouting.
NEELIX: Me and him?
JANEWAY: He's our best pilot, and you're our expert on edible plant species in this quadrant.
PARIS: Captain, I'm not one to pass up a mission, but in this circumstance, maybe Ensign Baytart who is a fine pilot
JANEWAY: There are electromagnetic anomalies in the atmosphere and I would rather have you at the helm. Am I discerning a personal problem here, gentlemen?
NEELIX: Frankly, yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Solve it. You leave at fourteen hundred hours.

[Briefing room]
TORRES: We're modifying the transporter to try and penetrate the atmosphere. So far, no luck.
KIM: However, we have been running computer simulations to determine if the EM disturbances follow any specific pattern. Our data analysis suggests that there may be occasional atmospheric windows that would allow us to get through.
CHAKOTAY: How occasional, and how long would they last?
KIM: We should see one every thirty hours or so, but they may only last for a matter of minutes. I can't be sure yet.
JANEWAY: At least long enough for us to beam up food supplies. Mister Paris, you and Mister Neelix will collect as many vegetables and fruits as you can while we wait for this atmospheric window to open. Mister Kim, be sure your computer simulations include

[Corridor]
KES: What happened? I heard that you
NEELIX: Nothing happened.
KES: They said that you and Tom Paris had
NEELIX: Kes. We'll talk when I get back.
KES: I want to know, Neelix. Is it true that you were fighting?
NEELIX: When I get back.
KES: But

[Turbolift]
NEELIX: Shuttle bay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Good afternoon. When you have a chance, could you run an analysis of the cytokinetic results for
KES: I did it during lunch.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Are you all right?
KES: I'm fine.
EMH: Are you sure? You seem a little
KES: I'm fine.
EMH: You know, if you skip lunch, the result might be a lower blood sugar level, which could. I'm sorry. It's in my program. I see something wrong, I must attempt to diagnose it.
KES: There are some things you can't cure. Neelix and Tom Paris had a physical fight over me.
EMH: How delightful.
KES: Delightful?
EMH: You should consider it a high compliment. Throughout history, men have fought over the love of a woman. Why, I can quote you autopsy reports from duels as far back as 1538.
KES: That's not funny.
EMH: It's not meant to be. You've always been interested in autopsies.
KES: Are all Talaxians so jealous?
EMH: I wouldn't know. I've only met one.
KES: I love Neelix. Why can't he just accept that? His suspicions about Tom are completely unjustified.
EMH: Are they? Lieutenant Paris's affection for you is obvious.
KES: What do you mean?
EMH: I mean he desires you.
KES: That's not true. Tom and I enjoy each other's company. We're friends.
EMH: Whenever you walk into the room, his respiration increases, his pupils dilate and the coloration of his ears turns decidedly orange. Until I noticed the pattern, I thought he was suffering from Tanzian flu. It's there for anyone to see. Maybe not in the same diagnostic detail as I see it, yet
KES: Are you saying that I didn't want to see it?
EMH: You're only two years old. There may be a few things you don't know to look for in a man. In time, you'll understand.
KES: On my homeworld it's so much simpler. You choose a mate for life. There's no distrust, no jealousy, no envy, no betrayal.
EMH: Hmm. Your world must have very dry literature.
KES: I don't know how to handle something like this. What am I going to do?
EMH: You've done nothing to precipitate this state of affairs. You may not be able to do much to resolve it either. There are some things you can't cure.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: Entry sequence at two minutes, mark. All systems normal. Trigemic density at point zero four one and rising.
NEELIX: We lost communication with Voyager thirty seconds ago. You don't have to impress me with your technobabble.
PARIS: I'm not trying to impress anyone, I'm entering it into the flight record. Look, can I make a suggestion?
NEELIX: You're the commander of this mission. You can make any suggestion you want, and if you make it an order, I'll even have to obey it.
PARIS: My suggestion is that we put our personal problems aside until this mission is over. Okay?
NEELIX: I left my personal problems back on the ship. I can't speak for you.
PARIS: Fine. Let's get the job done.
NEELIX: You get us down in one piece, and I'll take it from there.
PARIS: Entry sequence at three minutes, mark. All systems, stand by. Have you been briefed on shuttle operations?
NEELIX: Ensign Baytart took me through the basics. Of course, I didn't have the benefit of your personal tutelage.
PARIS: Check your console. I'm reading a power output decline of fifteen percent.
NEELIX: Confirmed.
COMPUTER: Warning. Vectored exhaust controls malfunctioning.
NEELIX: What does that mean?
PARIS: We're getting some kind of reaction in our driver coil assembly from the EM anomalies in the atmosphere. I'm going to abort the mission. Hold on. We've lost our impulse drive. Shut off the deuterium flow! I'm dumping excess fuel.
NEELIX: Deuterium flow sealed.
PARIS: Setting DCA pulse over to neutral. Engaging thrusters.
NEELIX: Can you regain control?
PARIS: I'm trying, Neelix. Prepare for an emergency landing. Send out an EMS pulse. There's still a chance Voyager will pick it up.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, we're picking up a locator signal from the shuttle.
JANEWAY: Can you track it?
TUVOK: Their last velocity vector indicates a steep descent. We've lost contact.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Torres.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres here.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, our shuttle's in trouble. Any progress on modifying the transporter?

[Transporter room]
TORRES: Negative. It's an extremely complex interference pattern, and it keeps changing.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Bring in as much help as you need. This is now a search and rescue operation.
TORRES (voiceover): Acknowledged. Torres out.
JANEWAY: Keep me informed. I'll be in my Ready room.

[Shuttlecraft]
NEELIX: I said in one piece.
PARIS: Sorry. I did the best I could. Any broken bones?
NEELIX: Everything seems to be working. I'm itching.
PARIS: I feel it too. We've got atmospheric leakage in the hull. The trigemic vapors really sting. Here. Doc said this would help a little.
NEELIX: If we've got atmospheric leakage, how can we fly out of here?
PARIS: We can't. We'll have to wait for Voyager to find us.
NEELIX: We're not even sure they're looking for us yet. We don't know if the EMS pulse got through.
PARIS: B'Elanna's working on the transporter, and one of those atmospheric windows might open up. In the meantime, we're going to have to look for some kind of cover.
NEELIX: I say we stay right here.
PARIS: The trigemic vapors are going to
NEELIX: You're the one who wants to go out into those vapors. Staying here is our best chance of being found. You heard what they said. Those windows may only be open for a matter of minutes.
PARIS: And we may be waiting here for days. Exposure to these vapors is too dangerous. We're leaving. Grab your gear.
NEELIX: Is that an order or a suggestion?
PARIS: An order!
NEELIX: Yes, sir!

[Planet surface]
NEELIX: I hope you're satisfied. We were a lot more comfortable inside the shuttle. I have red welts all over my hands now.
PARIS: You know, it might be more constructive if you could find us something safe to eat.
NEELIX: I certainly don't know why the ship's sensors indicated this planet might be rich in food supplies. It sure doesn't look it.
PARIS: Our emergency rations won't last forever.
NEELIX: I'll find something for us. Of course, it might not meet your personal culinary standards.
PARIS: Oh, don't worry. I've learned to lower my standards since you became cook. I'm picking up some caves about a kilometer west of here.
NEELIX: What good fortune.

[Kes's quarters]
KES: Come in. Harry. Any word yet?
KIM: We're doing everything possible. The transporter just doesn't want to work in that atmosphere. How are you doing?
KES: Oh, I'm all right. It's just, I was very angry at them a few hours ago.
KIM: You had a every right to be.
KES: And now they might both be dead. And I'm sitting here, and I'm feeling guilty for some reason.
KIM: Guilty? Why?
KES: I don't know. But I don't like it. And it's their fault. And I can't even tell them how angry I am at them, and I may never be able to tell them how angry I am at them, so it doesn't matter, does it?
KIM: Look. You know if there was any way to land that shuttle, Tom Paris got it down.
KES: And no one has stronger survival skills than Neelix.
KIM: I'm sure they'll both be fine.
KES: Unless they kill each other.
KIM: They're professionals.
KES: Oh, they'd better be all right, because when I see them, I'm personally going to tell them that I never intend to speak to either one of them again.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to crew. Battle stations.

[Cave]
PARIS: This is good. We can last a while in here.
PARIS: That should do it.
NEELIX: Garnesite. This will give us a little heat, at least.
PARIS: We'd better conserve our beacon cells.
NEELIX: So, what is Starfleet protocol for situations like this?
PARIS: Oh, there's a whole course at the Academy full of all sorts of survival strategies.
NEELIX: I hope you had a passing grade.
PARIS: B minus.
NEELIX: That's not very encouraging.
PARIS: My father was teaching the class that year.
NEELIX: And he gave you a B minus? I guess he didn't play favorites, huh?
PARIS: What about Talaxian protocols?
NEELIX: I wrote my own book. My life before Voyager was no bed of Felaran rose petals.
PARIS: No, more like a bed of
NEELIX: What?
PARIS: Nothing.
NEELIX: You were going to say junk, perhaps? Go ahead. Say it. Junk. I was a dealer in junk. Perhaps not worthy of a woman like Kes, in your opinion.
PARIS: Neelix, I didn't say that. I never even
NEELIX: Tell me something. In that Starfleet survival course, did your father teach you to check for life signs before you seal yourself inside a cave?
PARIS: I checked for life signs. There weren't any.
NEELIX: There are now.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Hail them.
TUVOK: They do not respond, Captain.
KIM: They're powering down their weapons systems.
TUVOK: Their vessel has taken up a position directly beneath us.
JANEWAY: What do you make of it, Lieutenant?
TUVOK: They would seem to have adopted a defensive posture, Captain.
JANEWAY: I agree. But defending what? The planet?
CHAKOTAY: Or something on it.

[Cave]
PARIS: Whatever this life form is, its vital signs are awfully faint.
NEELIX: In this atmosphere, it could be dying of exposure.
PARIS: No, I don't think so. They're faint, but steady.
NEELIX: I'd say it's becoming more and more evident that we chose the wrong cave.
PARIS: This is where the life signs are coming from. They're embryonic life forms. These two are half formed. This one almost seems to be

[Bridge]
KIM: The EM disturbance patterns match the computer simulations. I'd say we'll get a shot at an atmospheric window in about fifty three minutes.
CHAKOTAY: Where does that leave us with the transporter?
TORRES: Our range will still be limited, but the transporter should work as long as we stay in an area with reduced electromagnetic activity.
JANEWAY: The problem is we don't know where our shuttle went down.
CHAKOTAY: So there's no way to know how close they'll be to the window when it opens.
JANEWAY: Recommendations?
TORRES: Take the ship through the window into the atmosphere. The closer you can get us to the surface, the better our chances for a successful beam out.
JANEWAY: Get on it.
CHAKOTAY: Are you going to be able to warn us before the window closes again?
KIM: I think so.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, that's not an answer I can live with.
KIM: I'll try to get you a better one, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, we need you to find a way to get us by that ship.
TUVOK: I have anticipated your request, Captain. Am I correct in the assumption that you will want to use minimal force?
JANEWAY: Assumption confirmed.
TUVOK: I cannot guarantee success. My evaluation of their weapon systems suggest a capacity equal to our own. However
JANEWAY: You've come up with an ingenious plan to neutralize them.
TUVOK: I have. In my analysis of our first encounter, I have detected what I believe to be a vulnerability in their shield configuration. There appears to be a slight phase retraction when auxiliary power is transferred to their aft weapons systems.
CHAKOTAY: A covariant phaser pulse into their aft control systems might disable their entire weapons array.
TUVOK: That was my ingenious plan, Commander. You are correct.
JANEWAY: Very well. Red alert. Mister Kim, set coordinates. Torres, speed at two thousand kph.
TORRES: Aye, Captain. Chakotay, take the helm.
KIM: Coordinates entered.
JANEWAY: Engage.

[Cave]
PARIS: This creature's going to have the ability to stand upright. It has the skeletal system of a humanoid. It's cold-blooded, has reptilian epidermis. Its brain is significantly larger than most reptilian species. I'd say we're dealing with a sentient life form here, Neelix.
NEELIX: If this species is sentient, wouldn't that suggest that its parents might return to care for it?
PARIS: It's hard to say. Most common reptiles lay their eggs and never return to protect them.
NEELIX: I think we've established we're not dealing with a common reptile.
PARIS: True. And if this thing does have a mother, I'd say we don't want to be around when she gets back. Come on.
NEELIX: We can't just leave it here.
PARIS: We're not leaving it here, its mother left it here. We just happened to wander in.
NEELIX: But we blocked off the cave. The mother might have been trapped outside.
PARIS: We'll leave the door open for her when we go, okay?
NEELIX: Look. It's not that simple. What if she can sense we were here? She, she might be able to smell that faux lime aftershave of yours. I'm sure you realize many species won't return to a nest after it's been tampered with.
PARIS: There's not much we can do about that now, is there? We should just leave all this the way we found it.
NEELIX: No.
PARIS: Neelix!
NEELIX: This creature is our responsibility.
PARIS: Ours?
NEELIX: The moment we came in here, it became our responsibility.
PARIS: And you expect to take care of this thing until what? It graduates from high school, college? And what if Mom doesn't come back? Are you planning to bring this with us back on the ship?
NEELIX: Look, if she does return and accepts the hatchling, it'll solve everything. We just have to wait and see what she does. I don't know how it is in your quadrant, but in mine we don't abandon a new-born thing.
PARIS: Fine. Fine. You made your point. I officially designate you its godfather.
NEELIX: It's stopped crying.
PARIS: It's shivering. That's normal, isn't it? I mean, new born life forms do shiver, don't they?
NEELIX: To be honest, I haven't been around many new borns.
PARIS: Me neither.
NEELIX: Oh, look at this, Paris. It's stopped shivering.
PARIS: It's asleep. Forget what I said, Neelix. You're not its godfather. You're its godmother.

[Bridge]
KIM: The atmospheric window is forming, Captain, thirty degrees off the predicted co-ordinates.
JANEWAY: How soon will we have maximum aperture, Mister Kim?
KIM: Nine minutes.
JANEWAY: All right, Commander, let's try to draw some fire from their aft weapons systems. Bring us within ten kilometers.
CHAKOTAY: Shields at eighty percent.
TORRES: Minor damage to our port nacelle. Rerouting power to lateral thrusters.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
TUVOK: So far I'm not detecting the same vulnerability in their shields this time, Captain. We may have to resort to additional force.
JANEWAY: Arm photons.
KIM: Ready.
JANEWAY: Prepare to
TUVOK: Stand by, Captain. I'm detecting an opening.
TUVOK: Direct hit to their aft control systems. Their weapons are disabled.
JANEWAY: Commander, proceed to Mister Kim's coordinates. One half impulse.

[Cave]
PARIS: Oh, come on. Come on. It doesn't seem to care for Starfleet rations.
NEELIX: If I were in my kitchen, I could cook you up some delightful leola root broth.
PARIS: Are you serious? Ugh. I hope I never see another leola root. And you're certainly not feeding any of that hideous broth to my niece. Or nephew. Whatever it is.
PARIS: Its heartbeat is getting weaker. I don't like it. Come on, kid. You've got to eat something.
NEELIX: It seems far more interested in my jacket than your food.
PARIS: Neelix, it's not your jacket. It's the residue of the trigemic vapors we walked through. Think about it. Voyager's sensors picked up high levels of proteins and amino acids, which we assumed meant this was a planet filled with vast supplies of edible plant life.
NEELIX: We were certainly wrong about that.
PARIS: The residue is a concentration of proteins and amino acids.
NEELIX: The perfect source of nutrition for the hatchling.
PARIS: The source we cut off when we blocked the cave. Come on. We've got some rocks to move.

[Bridge]
KIM: The atmospheric window is at full aperture, Captain. We should have at least seventeen minutes before it starts to close.
TUVOK: Captain, the alien vessel is in pursuit.
JANEWAY: Are their weapons systems back online already?
TUVOK: Negative. They are still disabled.
CHAKOTAY: They couldn't be preparing to ram us, could they?
JANEWAY: Hold your course. We need to get through that window but prepare to take evasive action if necessary.
CHAKOTAY: Understood.
TUVOK: Alien vessel closing to one thousand kilometers. Five hundred. Three hundred. It has passed us and is proceeding toward the surface.
JANEWAY: Take us down, Commander.

[Outside the cave]
NEELIX: It's not breathing! I don't think it's breathing! Come on. Suck in some of those hearty vapors.
PARIS: It's just too weak.
NEELIX: There must be something in here we can use to resuscitate it.
PARIS: Neelix, we did the best we could.
NEELIX: No! It's our fault. It's our fault. If we hadn't come. Here. Cordrazine. This is a stimulant.
PARIS: You can't pump it full of drugs without knowing its body chemistry.
NEELIX: So we should just let it die?
PARIS: Give me that.
PARIS: When I was a kid, a baby bird fell out of a nest and landed on the windowsill next to my bed. We had to feed it water with an eyedropper to keep it alive.
NEELIX: What are you doing?
PARIS: Filling the eyedropper. Can you hold its mouth open?
NEELIX: Do it again. Again.
NEELIX: It's working. It's working!
PARIS: Life signs are getting stronger.
NEELIX: You did it!
PARIS: We did it. You know, I never would have thought of that hypospray if. The vapors.
NEELIX: Who cares?

[Bridge]
TORRES: Sensors are operating as well as can be expected under these conditions. Either we're just not close enough to where they landed to pick up their comm. signals, or they never landed. The shuttle might have burned up in the atmosphere.
JANEWAY: I'm not willing to concede that yet. Any sign of the alien ship?
TORRES: No, Captain. We've lost them.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, how much longer before that window starts to close?
KIM: Nine minutes, twenty seconds.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, extend our surveillance pattern. If we don't find them in five minutes, we'll head back to the window.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.

[Outside the cave]
NEELIX: I'm sorry.
PARIS: Hmm?
NEELIX: I feel I owe you an apology.
PARIS: No, you don't.
NEELIX: I had no right to push that pasta in your lap.
PARIS: Well, think of it this way. You saved me from having to eat it. Nothing personal, but I just don't have an affinity for hair in my food.
NEELIX: I haven't been fair to you. You know, I hear people talking about you in the mess hall.
PARIS: No kidding. What do they say?
NEELIX: Oh, that you used to be a coward and couldn't be trusted. It's typical of Kes that she would befriend someone like you. Someone who really needs a friend. And I guess I just got a little jealous. I got more than a little jealous. I realize now I was wrong.
PARIS: Neelix, I told you the truth when I said that nothing happened between me and Kes.
NEELIX: I know.
PARIS: And I promise you nothing ever will. But you weren't wrong about me.
NEELIX: What do you mean?
PARIS: I, well, I guess the only way to say it is to say it. I am attracted to Kes.
NEELIX: Oh?
PARIS: To be honest, if you weren't around, I'd be knocking at her door. But I respect you, Neelix. And that's that. Everything you heard those guys saying about me, well, it was true. But it's not who I am anymore. At least not who I want to be. This upside down mission to the wrong side of the galaxy has given me a second chance, and I don't intend to blow it.
NEELIX: I see. Well, in a way I can't say I blame you. She is very attractive.
PARIS: She's devoted to you, you know.
NEELIX: Well, I did save her life. I'm sure she's grateful.
PARIS: Oh, she's a lot more than grateful. She loves you, Neelix. I wouldn't stand a chance. Nobody would.
NEELIX: There are others?
PARIS: If you ever doubt yourself, just look into her eyes. See the way she looks at you. You'll never doubt yourself again. And as far as I'm concerned, I'll just be her friend. I mean, if you don't mind.
NEELIX: I don't pick Kes's friends for her. Just my own.
PARIS: Voyager? This is Lieutenant Tom Paris and Mister Neelix. Do you read?
JANEWAY (voiceover): We do, Mister Paris. Are you all right?
PARIS: Aside from a nasty rash, yes.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Have you encountered

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Life forms?
PARIS (voiceover): Actually, yes.
JANEWAY: Are they hostile?

[Outside the cave]
PARIS: No, just young.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Young?
PARIS (voiceover): Yes. We found a nest, and one of the creatures hatched.
JANEWAY: Be aware we encountered a hostile ship of unknown origin and we're showing that ship on the surface approximately one kilometer from your

[Outside the cave]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Position. We're attempting to lock onto you for transport. Stand by.
NEELIX: We can't leave yet.
PARIS: What? Why?
NEELIX: What if the mother rejects it?
PARIS: Neelix, one thing's for sure. Whether the mother rejects it or not, she will reject you and me.
NEELIX: We promised each other we wouldn't abandon it until
JANEWAY (voiceover): Away team, we're showing a life form moving towards your position. Prepare to transport.
NEELIX: Captain, this is Neelix. Are you in a particular rush to leave?

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Did you hear what I just said, Mister Neelix?

[Outside the cave]
NEELIX: Yes. But

[Bridge]
NEELIX (voiceover): We're not quite finished here yet.
JANEWAY: Finished with what? We have an atmospheric window closing in less than six minutes.

[Outside the cave]
NEELIX: And another one will be coming in how long?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Days.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Is there a problem?
PARIS (voiceover): The problem is, Captain

[Outside the cave]
PARIS: If we leave our little hatchling here and the mother rejects it

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): It might die of exposure before we get back.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your concern for

[Outside the cave]
JANEWAY (voiceover): It's welfare, but
PARIS: How long can you give us, Captain?

[Bridge]
KIM: One minute, ten seconds, max.

[Outside the cave]
NEELIX: We'll take it.
PARIS: Lock onto us, Voyager. If you hear muffled screams, consider that a request for a beam out.
NEELIX: There's nothing like a family reunion.
PARIS: Voyager, two to beam out.
NEELIX: As soon as you're ready.

[Transporter Room]
NEELIX: Kes!
KES: We didn't know if you were dead or alive. What happened?
PARIS: I became an uncle.
NEELIX: And I'm a godmother. I'd say this is the special occasion I've been waiting for to open up that bottle of Potak cold fowl I've been saving.
PARIS: Cold fowl in a bottle? That's just an expression, isn't it?
NEELIX: No. It's actually made from the glandular secretions of an adult dunghill bird, found only on Potak Three. It's very rare. Very exquisite. There are, I believe, only twenty seven bottles in existence at this time.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: It has a rather smoky flavor, going well with strong, meaty dishes. But I prefer it for sipping in the company of good friends.

[Corridor]
PARIS (voiceover): Paris to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.
PARIS (voiceover): I've done an analysis of our route through Botha space. Whenever you have a minute to check it out.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way to Engineering. I'll be with you as soon as I'm done.
PARIS (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
NEELIX: Ah, Captain, the computer told me I'd find you on deck eleven section four B, starboard side, and sure enough, here you are.
JANEWAY: What can I do for you, Neelix?
NEELIX: I assumed you'd want to talk to me.
JANEWAY: About?
NEELIX: About the Botha. We're headed for their space and as I've told you, they're going to have to be handled very carefully.
JANEWAY: I understand, and of course I want your counsel, but right now I'm late for a meeting.
NEELIX: I wouldn't put this off too long. We're getting closer, you know.
JANEWAY: Yes, I know. And I will be with you as soon as I can.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Sorry, I'm late. What do you have?
TORRES: I think we're about ready to make our first attempt, Captain.
JANEWAY: If you're successful, will the Doctor be able to move freely around the entire ship?
KIM: Not exactly. The holoemitters would be set up in certain key areas, the Bridge, Engineering. We'll be able to transfer him to those locations.
JANEWAY: In the same way we can now transfer him to the holodeck.
TORRES: Exactly. But if he tries to move into an area where there's no emitter field, he'll dematerialize.
KIM: I have the holoprojector online. We're ready to start.
JANEWAY: Proceed. I don't have much time.
TORRES: Engineering to Sickbay. Doctor, we're ready here.
EMH (voiceover): I'm standing by.
TORRES: Okay. Here goes.
KIM: Initiating transfer. Here he comes.
EMH: Well, this is certainly a brilliant feat of engineering.
JANEWAY: What happened?
TORRES: I'd guess the imaging interface wasn't properly stabilized.
KIM: Just a small oversight. No pun intended.
EMH: Very amusing.
JANEWAY: How long will it take you to correct this small oversight?
KIM: Maybe a couple of hours.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, I have to assess our navigational plan and get ready to make contact with an alien species. I can't drop everything whenever you call.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK (voiceover): Captain, I would like a half an hour of your time to review the security protocols before we encounter the Botha.
JANEWAY: Yes, Mister Tuvok. Somehow I will find half an hour.
EMH: Excuse me, Captain. Would you come down here, please?
JANEWAY: Yes?
EMH: When did you last take shore leave?
JANEWAY: About two months ago.
EMH: Ah. How long since you've done something pleasurable, for recreation?
JANEWAY: Doctor, I know I'm a bit testy today, but I can assure you
EMH: How long?
JANEWAY: It's been a while. I have a holonovel program. It helps me unwind. I haven't had time to run it for a few weeks.
EMH: Well, I want you to, now.
JANEWAY: Doctor, I'm really very busy.
EMH: I've checked Starfleet regulations. The Chief Medical Officer outranks the Captain in health matters. Now I realize this may be the first time a hologram has given an order to a captain, but I'm ordering you to report to the holodeck, now.
JANEWAY: Aye, sir.
EMH: And the two of you can get busy undoing this ridiculous blunder of yours!

[Holodeck - Gothic novel]
JANEWAY: Good afternoon, my lord. Will the children be joining us for tea?
BURLEIGH: Presently.
JANEWAY: Lord Burleigh, is something wrong?
BURLEIGH: Yes. Terribly wrong.
BURLEIGH: I have fallen in love with you, Lucy.
JANEWAY: My lord.
BEATRICE: Hello, Father.
HENRY: We're ready for tea. I want cucumber sandwiches.
TEMPLETON: You'll wait your turn, young man. What may I serve you, my lord?
BURLEIGH: Nothing, thank you.
TEMPLETON: I see.
BEATRICE: I want my tea in this cup, please. And I don't want a cucumber sandwich. I don't like the way Cook cuts them.
JANEWAY: My lord, you'll be very pleased with the children's progress in their studies this week. Henry shows a real talent for mathematics, and Beatrice turns out to be quite musical.
TEMPLETON: Beatrice? Musical?
BEATRICE: I don't know what she means.
JANEWAY: She's very modest about it. I've heard her several times in the music room, playing a lovely Mozart sonata. But whenever I ask her to play it for me, she won't. I think her talent should be encouraged. Would you consider lessons?
BURLEIGH: I didn't know Beatrice could play the piano.
BEATRICE: I'm sorry.
HENRY: It's just a cup. Don't be a goose.
BEATRICE: It's the flower cup, Mother's cup.
HENRY: It doesn't matter.
BURLEIGH: Mrs Templeton, please take the children to the nursery.
TEMPLETON: Yes, my lord. Come.
BURLEIGH: Please stay here, Mrs Davenport.
JANEWAY: Beatrice is upset. I should be with her.
BURLEIGH: I want you here.
JANEWAY: What's happening in this house? How can you not know that Beatrice plays the piano? Why shouldn't I go to the fourth floor? What's up there?
BURLEIGH: Those are questions you must not ask.
JANEWAY: But I am asking them. I'm worried about the children. Beatrice fantasized that her mother is still alive.
BURLEIGH: Don't pursue this, I beg you.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Bridge to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Freeze program. Janeway here.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We've been hailed by a representative of the Bothan government. They'd like to talk to you.
JANEWAY: I'll be right there. Sorry, my lord. Duty calls.

[Bridge]
NEELIX: Captain, I knew we should have talked this morning.
JANEWAY: Tell me what you know, Neelix.
NEELIX: I've been in subspace contact with some old friends of mine. Nomads, collectors, much as I used to be. They're in a position to gather information during their travels. What they've told me doesn't sound good.
JANEWAY: In what way?
NEELIX: There are lots of rumors about ships entering Bothan space, never to be heard from again. My sources on Mithren say that they have lost a number of vessels. They say the Botha protect their territory fiercely.
JANEWAY: But we aren't aggressors.
NEELIX: I don't think they are either. They just don't want anyone crossing their borders.
JANEWAY: Will they negotiate? Will they respond to diplomacy?
NEELIX: It's hard to say. There's some belief that they don't even have a legitimate claim to the space, that they're nothing more than pernicious, odious vandals. In which case, diplomacy would fall on deaf ears.
TUVOK: We're being hailed again, Captain.
JANEWAY: On screen. I'm Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager.
BOTHAN (screen): Why have you entered our space without permission?
JANEWAY: We didn't realize that this was your space. On what basis do you claim it?
BOTHAN (screen): I have no intention of explaining myself to you. The fact is, you're violating our territory.
JANEWAY: I assure you, we mean no disrespect. We are from another part of the galaxy. We're just trying to make our way home.
BOTHAN (screen): We'll send a ship to rendezvous with you. If you meet the criteria, we'll consider your request.
JANEWAY: Thank you. What are the criteria?
BOTHAN (screen): We'll discuss that when we meet.
PARIS: Friendly fellow.
JANEWAY: At least they're willing to talk.
KIM: I wonder why he wouldn't let us see his face.
JANEWAY: I suspect it was a calculated move. An attempt to intimidate us. Commander, you have the Bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Neelix, join me in my Ready room. We should talk about this meeting.
NEELIX: Captain, if I may. What was the last time you ate?
JANEWAY: Ate? Oh, I had some soup last night.
NEELIX: Then let me suggest that we conduct our talk in the mess hall. We're serving a sumptuous repast for lunch.
JANEWAY: Right. Lunch it is.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Captain, you have a nasty habit of skipping meals and that can do horrible things to your electrolyte levels.
JANEWAY: I know, but sometimes I just get too busy to eat.
NEELIX: All you have to do is give me a call. I'll be there in a trice with a tray of food so delectable you won't be able to resist. I do think I've outdone myself this time. An exquisite pate made from Seltin wood fungus. Brine-soaked neccel strips. Deviled wood throk.
JANEWAY: Where did these come from?
NEELIX: Lieutenant Hargrove asked for them. Is something wrong?
JANEWAY: No, just a funny coincidence. Something I saw on the holodeck. Thank you, Neelix. This all looks delicious. And it's bound to boost my electrolyte levels. Where did you get that cup?
NEELIX: Why, I'm not sure. I think I found several of them in storage. Unusual, isn't it? Captain, is everything all right?
JANEWAY: It's perfectly all right, Neelix. I just have to remind myself that coincidences do happen.

[Corridor]
BURLEIGH (voiceover): I can't help myself. I've fallen in love with you.
BEATRICE: My mother is alive, and my father loves her, not you.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: In the course of your experiments with the Doctor, have you accessed any of the holodeck programs?
TORRES: No, we're bypassing the holodecks.
JANEWAY: Where did you get this holoprojector?
KIM: We found several of them in storage. We've been reconfiguring them one by one.
JANEWAY: So you haven't worked directly with any of the projectors on the holodecks?
TORRES: No.
JANEWAY: Is there anything you've done, anything you can think of, that might have caused holographic objects and characters to appear outside the holodeck?
TORRES: Not that I'm aware of.
JANEWAY: I was sure your experiments would explain it.
TORRES: Captain, there has to be a reason why you've had these delusions and we're going to figure out what it is.
JANEWAY: The Doctor pointed out that I've been under some stress. I can't ignore that.
KIM: I think we should check out the imaging systems on the holodeck. There might be a simple malfunction.
JANEWAY: Good idea.
TORRES: We can run the diagnostic from here in Engineering, but you should activate the program first.
JANEWAY: I'll contact you from the holodeck.

[Holodeck - Gothic novel]
JANEWAY: Janeway to Engineering.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres here.
JANEWAY: Have you set up the diagnostic?
TORRES (voiceover): We're ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
BURLEIGH: Lucy. Thank God you've come back. Why are you dressed so strangely?
JANEWAY: It's a costume.
BURLEIGH: You'd look lovely in anything. I've thought of you constantly. Remembered your touch, your perfume, your lips
JANEWAY: Computer, delete character.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to Janeway. We're finished, Captain, but we didn't find any malfunctions.
JANEWAY: Recalibrate and try it again. I'm going to check something else.
TORRES (voiceover): Aye, Captain.

[Kitchen]
NEELIX: Captain! I'm delighted to see you. Do you want a snack?
JANEWAY: No, I'm fine. But I wanted to ask you about lunch.
NEELIX: Didn't you like it?
JANEWAY: It was delicious. I was just trying to remember all the dishes you made. There was the Seltin pate.
NEELIX: Delectable.
JANEWAY: The neccel strips.
NEELIX: Exquisite!
JANEWAY: The devilled throk.
NEELIX: Sublime.
JANEWAY: And the cucumber sandwiches.
NEELIX: Cucumber sandwiches?
JANEWAY: Weren't there cucumber sandwiches?
NEELIX: I don't even know what that is. The other item on the menu was a fried murt cake. You ate one.
JANEWAY: And the cup you served my tea in?
NEELIX: One of these. The ones I found in storage.
JANEWAY: I thought it had flowers on it.
NEELIX: Flowers? Well, no, I don't see any flowers. Maybe there was another cup, but I don't think so. Would you like a cup with flowers on it? I'm sure I can replicate one.
JANEWAY: It's all right, Neelix. You've told me what I need to know.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I don't detect anything so far. No evidence of aneurysm, subdural haematoma, stroke.
JANEWAY: Could it be stress?
EMH: Possibly. Did you go to the holodeck as I ordered?
JANEWAY: Yes.
EMH: And was that relaxing?
JANEWAY: It was interesting. I'm not sure how relaxing it was.
EMH: There are other possibilities we should consider. I want to scan for airborne bacteria and viruses. We should investigate the possibility of an alien intruder. And I'd like to do a cerebro-cortical scan on you.
KES: Oh! Oh.
EMH: Kes?
KES: I don't know. Strange. Oh, suddenly I felt cold, shivery.
JANEWAY: Someone was walking your grave.
EMH: Hmm?
JANEWAY: It's just an old saying on Earth. A way of describing an odd feeling like that.
EMH: Hmm. How macabre.
JANEWAY: It's human expression, Doctor. I'd think you'd have heard it.
EMH: My programrs didn't clutter me up with pithy Earth trivia. They programmed me with far more important data. Kes, would you please get my sub-neural scanner from the Med Lab?
KES: Yes, Doctor.
BEATRICE: What's about my mother's grave? There's no one inside. The coffin is empty.
JANEWAY: Doctor. Doctor. Who do you see here?
EMH: I see you.
JANEWAY: And I see you. But I also see a little girl from my holodeck program.
EMH: What happened?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure. The image of the little girl suddenly rushed at me.
KES: I saw it too. When I came in, I felt as though something hit me, bounced off me, then I saw the little girl moving right into you.
JANEWAY: As though you became a mirror. You reflected her back toward me.
KES: I've been doing some mental exercises with Tuvok developing my telepathic abilities, but we haven't done anything like this.
EMH: Captain, until I am able to determine the cause of these hallucinations, I'd prefer that you return to your quarters. Get some rest.

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Vegetable bouillon. No, cancel that. Coffee ice cream.
JANEWAY: Hello? Is anyone there?
MARK (voiceover): Kath, are you there?
JANEWAY: Computer, is there anyone in these quarters except me?
COMPUTER: Negative.
MARK (voiceover): Kath, are you there?
JANEWAY: Who's that?
MARK (voiceover): Come look at the puppies.
JANEWAY: Mark.
MARK (voiceover): I have missed you so much, Kath. When are you coming back? I don't think you've missed me. Someone else is in your thoughts now.
MARK (voiceover): Isn't that true? Isn't there someone you're thinking of?
JANEWAY: Computer, open the door.
TEMPLETON: Everything was fine until you came here. I took care of him. He trusted me. But when you arrived, all that changed.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Security. Intruder alert.
TEMPLETON: You've done nothing but cause trouble. We don't want more trouble in our lives!

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Security to the Captain's quarters! Tuvok, please respond!
TUVOK: Captain!
EMH: Can you still see the hallucinations?
KES: Yes, the woman with the knife is receding into the Captain, just like before.
TUVOK: Captain! Listen to me! You are in Sickbay. You are all right. Captain!
JANEWAY: I think Neelix can help you. No one knows much about the Botha, but he has some information.
CHAKOTAY: I know he's been doing research. I'll check with him.
JANEWAY: You'll probably want him on the Bridge with you when their ship arrives.
CHAKOTAY: Good idea.
JANEWAY: I'm not sure how Torres and Kim are coming. You know they're trying to find a way to transfer the Doctor out of Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Yes.
JANEWAY: It's not a priority, but you might want to stay on top of it.
CHAKOTAY: Of course.
JANEWAY: Let's see. There was a problem with one of the deflector shields. You'll want to follow up on that. And Stellar Cartography was hoping for a review of their latest report. I think Tuvok wanted to discuss something about weapons storage.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, you've trained your crew well. We'll be able to do without you for a few days. In the meantime, we're continuing diagnostics on all ship's systems. There's a reason for what's happening to you, and we're not stopping until we find it.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Commander.
EMH: My patient has to rest now. I'm sure you'll want to get to the Bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Call me if there's anything I can do.
JANEWAY: Just be sure to report to me after you meet with the Botha.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, ma'am.
EMH: Captain, if you'll take a seat on one of the beds, I'd like to do some further tests. Kes, please prepare the Captain for a cerebro-cortical scan.
KES: Certainly. Captain, I saw your hallucination again.
JANEWAY: What did you see?
KES: You were struggling with a woman. She had a knife. She was trying to hurt you.
JANEWAY: That's right.
KES: As I focused on you, it was just like with the little girl. The image seemed to reflect off of me and move back into you.
JANEWAY: Your telepathic abilities must be increasing.
KES: I think it's more than that. I think something strange is happening on this ship and it's not just happening to you.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I am picking up a ship on long range sensors, Commander. It is a design we have not encountered before.
KIM: I show it on a direct intercept course.
CHAKOTAY: That must be our welcoming party.
PARIS: They're in a hurry, too. Closing fast.
TUVOK: They are hailing, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: On screen.
BOTHAN (screen): Where is your captain?
CHAKOTAY: She's not available right now. I'm Commander Chakotay, the First Officer. I can speak for her.
BOTHAN (screen): We observe rather strict protocols. I'd prefer to negotiate with the Captain.
CHAKOTAY: I understand, but she's not able to come to the Bridge now. And in her absence, our protocols allow me to assume her place. Our request is the same. We'd like permission to cross through your space. We'll do it as quickly as possible.
BOTHAN (screen): What kind of weapon systems do you possess?
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure why that information is necessary.
BOTHAN (screen): How do I know you aren't a heavily armed invader here to attack our settlements?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know how to convince you, but we're a peaceful people. If you doubt us
CHAKOTAY: What happened?
TUVOK: I terminate the transmission, Commander, and made it look like an accidental interruption. I am concerned about some anomalous sensor readings.
KIM: I'm getting them too. Residual energy displacements. Two discrete readings. One off the port bow, one off starboard.
PARIS: We have to consider the possibility of cloaked ships.
CHAKOTAY: Reverse course, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
KIM: Two ships decloaking.
TUVOK: The Bothan ship is powering up weapons.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive maneuver gamma five.
CHAKOTAY: Report!
TUVOK: Shields at eighty seven percent. Minor damage on decks four and twelve.
KIM: They're turning back for another strike.
PARIS: Initiating evasive pattern beta two.
CHAKOTAY: Get the weapons online.
TUVOK: Powering up lateral phaser arrays. Shields down to eighty three percent.
CHAKOTAY: Return fire.
TUVOK: A direct hit. However, their shields were not penetrated.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: I can't stay here.
EMH: Captain, I can't allow you to leave Sickbay. You're in no condition to
JANEWAY: Sorry, Doctor. If we're in trouble, my place is on the Bridge.

[Bridge]
KIM: There's something weird going on, Commander. I'm not reading any life signs on the two ships that just decloaked.
CHAKOTAY: There's no crew?
KIM: Looks like the ships are automated. They're being controlled by the Bothan ship.
CHAKOTAY: Return fire, Tuvok.
TUVOK: We have hit their weapons array, but not severely enough to disable it.
KIM: Commander, the three ships are maneuvering to surround us.
CHAKOTAY: Get us out of here, Paris.
PARIS: I'm trying.
KIM: The ships are powering their weapons, preparing to fire.
TUVOK: That last volley took our shields down to twenty one percent.
KIM: We've got damage on all decks. Reports of injuries.
CHAKOTAY: All stop.
TUVOK: The lead ship is hailing us, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: On screen.
BOTHAN (screen): Your ship is damaged and your captain incapacitated. I will accept your immediate surrender.
JANEWAY: You're not getting one. The Captain is fine.
BOTHAN (screen): I don't think so. I think the battle is over now.
JANEWAY: Mark.
MARK (screen): Don't you recognize the man you love?
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, who do you see on the viewscreen?
PARIS: It's my father.
ADMIRAL PARIS (screen): I hope you've been behaving yourself.
KIM: I see my girlfriend, Libby.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, shut down visual.
KIM: I'm trying, Captain. It won't terminate.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, do a multiphasic scan on those ships. I want any evidence of defensive weakness. And prepare the forward photon torpedoes for launch. Tuvok.
TUVOK: I do not understand how this can be.
T'PEL (screen): Don't try to understand, Tuvok. Just accept it. We're together again.
TUVOK: No. You are not my wife.
T'PEL (screen): Of course I am. I am T'Pel. And there, right in front of you, is your lute. The one you used to play for me. And look. Look around you. You're back home, on Vulcan.
JANEWAY: Tuvok? Tuvok, answer me. Tuvok!
KIM: Captain, I'll do it. Running a multiphasic scan.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.
TORRES (voiceover): We're having problems down here.

[Engineering]
TORRES: People are becoming delusional.
JANEWAY (voiceover): It's happening her too.
TORRES: I think I know why. There's a massive energy field coming from those ships. It's bioelectric, modulating on a delta wave frequency. It has psionic properties, and it's permeating the hull.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: A psionic field has a psychoactive effect. That would explain the hallucinations.
TORRES (voiceover): You can try remodulating

[Engineering]
TORRES: The shields, but in the meantime, I'm going to set up a resonance burst from the warp core. That will probably block the field, but it'll take a while to set up.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Notify the Doctor. If the field is bioelectric, he might have some ideas how to neutralize it. Commander, give Lieutenant Torres a hand in Engineering. Mister Neelix, if the crew ever needed a morale officer, now's the time. See if you can help.
NEELIX: Aye, Captain.
MARK (screen): Kath, do you always have to be the captain? Can't you relax for a minute? I want to talk to you.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, remodulate the shields on a rotating frequency.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Kes.
KES (voiceover): Yes, Captain?
JANEWAY: Can you come to the Bridge? I think we could use you.
KES (voiceover): Right away.
JANEWAY: Paris, are you still with me?
PARIS: Sure am, Captain. I'm running the scans on those ships.
JANEWAY: I'll work on the shields. I suggest you don't look at the viewscreen.
PARIS: Oh, it's not even tempting.

[Engineering]
CHAKOTAY: How's it going down here?
TORRES: Not good. I can't get a response from anybody. It's like they're catatonic.
CHAKOTAY: It's the same all over the ship. On my way here, I must have seen fifty people just sitting, staring.
TORRES: A few minutes ago, there was a momentary interruption in the psionic field. Were there any indications that the alien somehow came on board?
JANEWAY: I'll find out. Chakotay to Janeway. Chakotay to the Captain. Please respond. Chakotay to anyone on the Bridge. Kim, Paris, anybody. We may be the last ones left.
TORRES: What do we do?
CHAKOTAY: I think we should take an escape pod. We passed an M Class planet yesterday. The pod should get us there in a week. We can try to get help.
TORRES: A week? That might be too late.
CHAKOTAY: It may be our only hope. If we stay here, we'll end up like the others.
TORRES: No, I have to keep trying to set up the resonance burst.
CHAKOTAY: Do I have to give you an order?
TORRES: I can't believe you're saying this. You know we have to stay here and try to help the others.
CHAKOTAY: I want you with me.
TORRES: You aren't Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: I'm the Chakotay you want me to be. The one who loves you. This is what you want, isn't it? The secret you've been keeping? You want us to be together. And we can be.

[Torres' quarters]
TORRES: I have to help the others.
CHAKOTAY: I want you. I've always wanted you. You feel the same way too.
TORRES: Yes.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Captain, I'm getting results from the scans. No apparent defensive weaknesses. Metallurgical analysis is inconclusive.
JANEWAY: I can't remodulate the shields. Try moving us out of here. If we can get some distance between us and those ships, we might be able to block the effects.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
ADMIRAL PARIS: This time let's see if you can do it without causing an accident. You usually manage to make a mess of everything you do.
PARIS: Let me say something I've always wanted to say. Get out of my life.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I'm just telling you what you already know. When the going gets tough, you crumble.
PARIS: Not any more. Not any more.
ADMIRAL PARIS: You don't really believe that. In your heart, you believe you'll fail again. And of course you will. You can't do anything right. You'll fail. Why even try?
JANEWAY: Tom? Tom? Janeway to Engineering. Janeway to Torres. Are you there? Engineering respond. If anyone in Engineering can hear me, I'm on my way. Computer, put the Bridge controls on security lockout.

[Turbolift]
JANEWAY: Deck eleven.
MARK: Now, maybe you have time to talk to me. You're so strong, Kath. That's one of the things I always loved in you.
MARK: What's the matter? You used to love it when I kissed you there.
JANEWAY: I don't know who you are, what you are, but I won't let you touch me.
MARK: What about the man on the holodeck? You didn't seem to mind him touching you, did you? In fact, I think you liked it. Now I ask you, Kath, is that fair to me? I've stayed faithful to you. I've vowed to wait for you no matter how long it takes. Shouldn't you do the same?
JANEWAY: I haven't been unfaithful.
MARK: Oh, Kath.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Sickbay to Engineering. Lieutenant Torres, please respond. Doctor to the mess hall. Mister Neelix, are you there? This is the doctor to anyone on the ship. If you can hear me, please reply. Either the communication system is malfunctioning or everyone on board has succumbed to a delusional state.
KES: Except you and me.
EMH: It would appear that if the psionic field is to be blocked and the crew restored to normal, it's up to us.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: You will have to go to Engineering and complete Lieutenant Torres's efforts to create a resonance burst.
KES: I don't know how to do that.
EMH: I will assist you from here.
KES: Do you know how to do it?
EMH: I discussed the matter with Lieutenant Torres. I think I understand the basic principle behind her plan. How hard can it be?
KES: All right.
EMH: Go to Engineering immediately. I'll contact you there.

[Corridor]
KES: Tom, what happened?
PARIS: A plasma leak caught me in the face. Help me.
KES: Can you get to Sickbay? The Doctor is there.
PARIS: Come with me.
KES: I can't. I have to get to Engineering.
PARIS: You can't leave me like this. It hurts.
KES: Tom, you can walk. You have to get to Sickbay on your own.
PARIS: Kes, please. I can't.
KES: You don't want me to get to Engineering.
PARIS: No.
KES: I'm hallucinating.
PARIS: Kes, wait. Come back. Don't leave me! Come back!

[Engineering]
EMH (screen): Finally. What took you so long?
KES: Doctor, we have to set up this resonance burst as quickly as possible. I've started hallucinating.
EMH (screen): Then see if Lieutenant Torres's last program is active.
KES: I think I have it. B'Elanna was writing a program to open a symmetrical warp field.
EMH (screen): All right. You'll have to sequence the magnetic plasma constriction to the following formula. T equals C sub-one over theta times P sub-E.
KES: Er, how do I do that?
EMH (screen): I'm not sure. Wait a minute. I'll see if I can access Starfleet's interactive database.
NEELIX: Sweeting! Thank goodness I found you. Are you all right?
KES: Where have you been?
NEELIX: In the mess hall, trying to help the poor souls there.
KES: Why didn't you answer the Doctor's hails?
NEELIX: I didn't hear them. The comm. system must be down. And frankly, I was a little busy. Ashmore thought I was a Kazon. Tried to kill me with a carving knife.
KES: How do I know you're really Neelix?
NEELIX: Who else would I be? Kes, all I want to do is protect you, to keep you safe. We have to get away from here, get to my shuttle.
KES: Doctor, have you figured out how I can enter that sequencing code?
EMH (screen): It's quite simple, really. Do you know where the command module is?
KES: Of course.
EMH (screen): Activate it and select magnetic plasma sequencing.
NEELIX: You're becoming annoying.
KES: I've got it. It's activated. Now it's asking me to enter the core temperature.
NEELIX: Move away from that console.
EMH (screen): Now, we need a temperature high enough to emit the resonance burst, but not so high as to irradiate everyone on the ship. Try three million Kelvins.
EMH (screen): Kes, look at him.
KES: It hurts!
EMH (screen): Look at him. Focus.
KES: I can't.
EMH (screen): Yes, you can. The mirror, remember?
KES: It hurts too much!
EMH (screen): Kes, look at him.
NEELIX: What's the matter, Kes? Can't lift your head?
KES: Focus.
NEELIX: Stop it!
KES: I'm all right now, Doctor, and I've entered a temperature of three million Kelvin.
EMH (screen): Then all you have to do is activate the warp field.
KES: All right. Here we go.
KES: Kes to the Captain. If you can hear me, please report to Engineering.
TORRES: What happened?
KES: It's a long story, but I think everything's all right now.
TORRES: Is that who's responsible for all this?
KES: Apparently. He looks so harmless. It's hard to believe he almost destroyed us.
BOTHAN: You're a powerful little thing. I must say, you surprised me.
JANEWAY: Why did you do this to us?
BOTHAN: Because I can.
JANEWAY: Is it just telepathy, or is there technology involved?
BOTHAN: Does it matter?
JANEWAY: Oh, it matters to me, because I don't intend to let you continue preying on others.
BOTHAN: How would you propose to stop me?
JANEWAY: We could destroy your technology. Or adjust your brain wave patterns to prevent telepathy. And then we could turn you over to the government of Mithren. We could even keep you confined in our brig behind a force field.
BOTHAN: I'm sure you're very well-intentioned, Captain, and I'd like to be able to accommodate you but you see, I'm not really here. Captain's log, supplemental. We have no explanation for the mysterious disappearance of the telepathic alien. We can't even be certain that he was actually here. He seems to have left us with any number of unanswered questions.

[Mess hall]
TORRES: I'm surprised to see you here, Captain. Isn't this the day that you're usually in the holodeck with your novel?
JANEWAY: I thought, after our recent experience, that I'd take a break from fantasy for a while.
TORRES: I don't blame you. I think it had quite an impact on all of us. Do you think it's true? That the alien was reading our minds, creating images from our own experiences?
JANEWAY: It seemed that way. He had uncanny ability to bring buried thoughts out into the open. Why?
TORRES: Oh, it's just, I experienced something I'd rather not admit.
JANEWAY: I know. Me too. But, in a way, maybe he did us all a favor. Maybe it's better to look those feelings in the eye than to keep them locked up inside.
TORRES: I guess. I'll have to think about that. I have an early watch tomorrow, so I'd better turn in. Good night, Captain.
JANEWAY: Good night, B'Elanna. Sweet dreams.
TORRES: Thanks. You too.

[Moon surface]
CHAKOTAY: Anything?
TORRES: Not really. The polyferranide deposits are contaminated with astaline.
TUVOK: Commander, there's something over here I think you should see.
CHAKOTAY: Pack it up. We'll find better quality somewhere down the line.
TORRES: That line is going to be cut short when our nacelles burn themselves up if we don't find it soon.
CHAKOTAY: What have you got, Lieutenant?
TUVOK: There have been other visitors to this moon recently.
NEELIX: What do you think this is? Some kind of message?

[Memory - Central American jungle]
KOLOPAK: I don't want you to go wandering off.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I'm not. I'm just looking at something.
KOLOPAK: Antonio.
KOLOPAK: He says you're quite a scout, a kep-o-ne.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I was just looking at a lizard when I saw it.
KOLOPAK: Well, it was your eyes that saw it. No one else's did. That's the important thing. Come. I want you to understand this. It's a blessing to the land, an ancient healing symbol. A chamozi. They probably cut this down for firewood.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: The Rubber Tree People?
KOLOPAK: Well, the closest thing to the ancient Rubber Tree People that we'll ever see. The people in this tribe are their descendants, just like we are. But they never left this jungle, and they rarely intermarry with other tribes.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: And they still use firewood instead of magnesite fuel like everyone else.
KOLOPAK: Chakotay, they have chosen to live like this for centuries. That's why we are traveling on foot and not using a transporter. We honor the Sky Spirits who led our ancestors to this sacred land.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Sacred land?
KOLOPAK: Yes.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Huh. The Sky Spirits must have taken a wrong turn somewhere.

[Moon surface]
CHAKOTAY: Maybe it's a blessing to the land, for damaging it with the campfire.
TUVOK: What is your basis for that conclusion, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Oh, just something somebody told me once.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Describe the nature of your pain.
WILDMAN: In the lower back. It's tight.
EMH: Choose the word that would best describe your pain. Burning, throbbing, piercing, pinching, biting, stinging, shooting
WILDMAN: Shooting. It even goes down my legs.
EMH: Hmm.
WILDMAN: Is the baby all right?
EMH: Hmm? Oh, certainly. Fine. Nothing to worry about.
WILDMAN: Well, that makes me feel better.
EMH: The position of the baby is simply putting pressure on your sciatic nerve. You may return to your post.
WILDMAN: The pain makes it difficult to sit for any period of time. It's really quite uncomfortable.
EMH: Elevating your legs when you sit should provide all the relief you need.
KES: Perhaps a day of rest, off duty.
EMH: Mmm. Ensign Wildman, according to your medical history, this is your first pregnancy, correct?
WILDMAN: Yes.
EMH: Well, Ensign, unfortunately, pregnancy causes its fair share of discomforts, and you'll have to learn to live with them. That's just the way it is. We'll schedule her for follow-up in two days. If the pain has not subsided on its own by then, we'll attempt to decrease the sensitivity of the nerve in that region.
WILDMAN: Thank you, Doctor.
KES: Call me day or night if this gets any worse.
KES: Don't you have any compassion for the way she feels?
EMH: Every member of this crew is an adult. I will not coddle them. Compassion can be your department. Fortunately, you have enough for both of us.
KES: You've never been sick or in pain. I just wish once in your life you could know what it's like, how it makes you feel vulnerable and a little afraid. Then you'd understand.
EMH: I don't have a life. I have a program.

[Chakotay's quarters]
CHAKOTAY: I hated every minute of it. My father had dragged me all the way from our colony near the Cardassian border on this quest of his. Away from my friends, my home, and here we were in the middle of a brutal Central American jungle looking for the descendants of the ancient Rubber People.
JANEWAY: It must have been very important to him.
CHAKOTAY: Believe me, it was. And he was very disappointed that I didn't share his enthusiasm. He'd been tracking down the origins of our tribe for years.
CHAKOTAY: The one on the right is the one I found today.
JANEWAY: And now something you saw on that trip years ago shows up again on a moon's surface almost seventy thousand light years away. I don't suppose you have any theories that might explain this.
CHAKOTAY: I can give you an official Rubber Tree People theory if you like. Sky Spirits.
JANEWAY: Sky Spirits?
CHAKOTAY: It's an ancient myth. Sky Spirits from above created the first Rubber People in their own image and led the way to a sacred land where the Rubber People would live for eternity.
JANEWAY: You obviously don't put a great deal of faith in this explanation.
CHAKOTAY: How much faith do you put in Adam and Eve? Hasn't science proved that all humans developed from a single evolutionary process?
JANEWAY: That's what I was always taught. On the other hand, none of my teachers ever spent much time in the Delta Quadrant. B'Elanna tells me we've picked up a warp signature heading away from the moon. Think we should follow it?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know that it's fair for me to put my own personal curiosity ahead of the ship's priorities.
JANEWAY: We still haven't found the polyferranide we need to seal the warp coils. If these people have warp technology, they might be able to help us. Besides, we are in the business of exploring, aren't we?
CHAKOTAY: My father would put on his expedition hat and shout, let's go. I guess that's good enough for me.

[Bridge]
KIM: Showing no life signs.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, are you certain the warp signature ended here?
PARIS: Positive, Captain. Harry, check your sensors. That look like some kind of power source to you?
KIM: That is an unusually high EM reading for a natural occurrence.
CHAKOTAY: Could be some kind of cloaking technology.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, transmit a continuous message on all frequencies identifying who we are, where we're from, and make it clear our intentions are peaceful.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to Bridge.
JANEWAY: Go Ahead.
TORRES (voiceover): We're in luck, Captain.

[Engineering]
TORRES: My readings are showing high concentrations of polyferranide about ten kilometers below the surface.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. We'll send down an away team to continue the survey. Report to Transporter room three.
TORRES (voiceover): On my way.
JANEWAY: Commander, if we meet any resistance, abort the mission. I have no intention of disturbing an alien race that would rather be left alone.
CHAKOTAY: Understood.
JANEWAY: On the other hand, if we can make contact, our goal is to get permission to begin excavation as soon as possible.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, you're with me. Mister Neelix, please report to Transporter room three for an away mission.
NEELIX (voiceover): I'll meet you there, Commander.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: We may be out of luck.
CHAKOTAY: Problem?
TORRES: I'm not sure we can transport down. Every time we try to lock onto a transport site, a storm begins.
CHAKOTAY: Storm?
TORRES: We've tried seven different sites and as soon as we lock on, an electrical storm forms right above the location. When we change sites, a new storm forms and the old one dissipates.
TUVOK: Might the transporter beam itself be causing an electrostatic charge in the atmosphere?
TORRES: That's as good a guess as any. I can't explain it. We just can't transport.
CHAKOTAY: Fine. We'll take a shuttle.

[Shuttlecraft]
TUVOK: Once again, the storm seems to have formed as a direct result of our interaction with the atmosphere. The meteorological conditions changed radically when we began our entry sequence.
TORRES: Shields are holding.
NEELIX: It takes more than a little thunderstorm to bother one of your mighty Starfleet ships, huh?
CHAKOTAY: Nothing we can't handle. Relax, Neelix.

[Memory - Central American jungle]
KOLOPAK: That's why they call it a rain forest.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Why do your Sky Spirits choose a place where it rains all the time? And it's hot, and there are so many bugs.
KOLOPAK: It's said the Sky Spirits honored the land above all else. Maybe it's because this land yields so many different kinds of life. Maybe they wanted us to become friends with everything in nature, including the bugs.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Sorry, Sky Spirits, I will never make friends with bugs.
KOLOPAK: Maybe that's why they keep biting you. You're miserable. It was a mistake to bring you. I'm sorry.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry I can't be what you want me to be.
KOLOPAK: From the day you came out of your mother, upside down, I knew the Spirits had chosen you to be a contrary.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: No one chooses for me. I choose my own way. And if that makes me a contrary, I'll have to live with it.
KOLOPAK: If you have no spirits to guide you, I fear you will lose your way.

[Shuttlecraft]
TORRES: Altitude, five thousand meters.
CHAKOTAY: Decreasing speed to seven hundred twenty kph. Entering terminal approach phase.
TORRES: Visibility still zero. Switching to enhanced terrain scanning.
CHAKOTAY: Touchdown site scanned. Continuing descent.

[Doctor's office]
KES: Computer, activate the Emergency Medical Holographic program.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
KES: I thought we changed your program so you wouldn't have to say that anymore.
EMH: We did. But I became so uncomfortable trying to find new ways to break the ice, as it were, that I restored it. Let's just say it works for me.
KES: Doctor.
EMH: Ah, you noticed.
KES: Are holograms supposed to sneeze?
EMH: Generally, no, but I have accepted your challenge. I've programmed myself with the symptoms of a twenty nine hour Levodian flu. Thus, I will gain the experience that you suggest would be beneficial to the performance of my duties. A-choo.1 Holographic tissue paper for the holographic running nose. Don't offer them to patients. Hmm. Interesting sensation, blowing one's nose. It's my first time.
KES: I think this is very brave of you.
EMH: Nothing of the sort. I intend it to be an educational experience.
KES: I'm sure you'll learn a lot.
EMH: I meant for the crew. I'm tired of the whiny, cranky attitudes we see around here. I intend to serve as an example of how one's life and duties do not have to be disrupted by simple illness.
KIM: Doc, I don't feel so good.
EMH: Neither do I, and you don't hear me complaining.

[Jungle]
TUVOK: We are not making any progress locating the source of that unusual power reading, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Then I guess we'll have to search for these people the old fashioned way, with our eyes and ears.
NEELIX: Is something bothering you, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: No. It just reminds me of another jungle that I visited once. The Central American rain forest on Earth. It's the only other place in the universe that I've ever seen this flower.
TUVOK: It appears to be a rare variety of Cypripedium, of the Asiatic genus Paphiopedilum.
NEELIX: I never knew you had such horticultural expertise, Mister Vulcan.
TUVOK: In fact, I am, or more accurately I was, a breeder of prize Vulcan orchids.
NEELIX: Then we have something in common. I breed orchids too. Don't they make the most exquisite salad? A touch of Baldoxic vinegar, pure heaven.
CHAKOTAY: I hereby designate the two of you the team's botanical surveyors. Collect a sample of that flower. B'Elanna?
TORRES: It's just what we've been looking for. Almost pure polyferranide. But there's a problem with crust reactivity. If we can't solve it before excavation, we might contaminate the entire yield.
CHAKOTAY: Have Ensign Kim run an analysis from the ship. We should be able to.
CHAKOTAY: I'll be damned.
TORRES: What?
CHAKOTAY: It almost looks like a hawk, doesn't it?

[Memory - Central American jungle]
KOLOPAK: Listen to him, Chakotay. What does he say to you? He says, you are home, eh?
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I'm leaving the tribe, Father.
KOLOPAK: What?
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I got to know a lot of the Starfleet officers patrolling the Cardassian border. I asked Captain Sulu if he would sponsor me at Starfleet Academy.
KOLOPAK: And he would do such a thing without even discussing it with me?
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I told him I had your approval.
KOLOPAK: Ah.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I kept him as far away from you as I could.
KOLOPAK: I take it you've been accepted by the Academy? Well, you've never fully embraced the traditions of our tribe, I know that. And you've always been curious about other societies, and that is why I allowed you to read about them. Because I believe that ignorance is our greatest enemy. But to leave the tribe?
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Our tribe lives in the past. A past of fantasy and myth.
KOLOPAK: That past is a part of you, no matter how hard you try to reject it.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Other tribes have learned to accept the twenty fourth century. Why can't ours?
KOLOPAK: It is not the place of a fifteen year old boy to question the choices of his tribe.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I know. That's why I have to leave.
KOLOPAK: You will never belong to that other life. And if you leave, you will never belong to this one. You'll be caught between worlds.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I ask for your blessing, Father.

[Jungle]
NEELIX (voiceover): Botanical surveyor number one to Commander Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead, Neelix.
NEELIX (voiceover): You won't believe what I've found. I think it's argh! Ow!
CHAKOTAY: Neelix, what the?
NEELIX: The bird! The bird!
NEELIX: My eye. Oh.
CHAKOTAY: Away team to Voyager.
PARIS (voiceover): Go ahead, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Emergency beam out. Get Neelix to Sickbay.
PARIS (voiceover): Acknowledged.
TUVOK: Commander.

[Sickbay]
EMH: You're very lucky this bird didn't snatch your eye right out of the socket. We have no spare Talaxian eyeballs.
NEELIX: Is something the matter with him?
KES: The Doctor gave himself the Levodian flu to see what it's like.
NEELIX: Is he contagious?
EMH: It's a holographic simulation, not an actual virus. There's no need for concern. You may sit up.
NEELIX: Touchy, isn't he?
KES: He isn't feeling well.
EMH: I don't require any compassion, thank you very much. I have been experiencing these symptoms for nearly twenty hours, and I am in complete command of my faculties. You may both leave now.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Kim believes if we bombard the crust with antithoron radiation, we can decontaminate it before excavation begins.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Then all we need to do is locate these people and get their permission.
JANEWAY: Any progress?

[Clearing]
CHAKOTAY: Everything we've found here suggests the people who live in this village left recently and in a hurry.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Do you believe our arrival frightened them?
CHAKOTAY: We can't discount that.

[Bridge]
KIM: You'd think with warp technology, they would have encountered other alien life before now.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): You'd think

[Clearing]
CHAKOTAY: With warp technology, they wouldn't be living like this. Captain.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Have you had any unusual readings that might explain the images of a strange face I've been seeing?
JANEWAY: Images?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Very odd. Like the flash of a memory, but it's someone I've never met.
JANEWAY: Nothing unusual has shown up on the ship's sensors.

[Clearing]
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok hasn't detected any telepathic activity either.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: If you want to call it a day, Commander.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): No.

[Clearing]
CHAKOTAY: I think we'll press on for a while. If there are any other problems, I'll let you know. Chakotay out.
TORRES: The dwellings are constructed with an alloy polymer matrix we've never encountered before, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: They're out there. Our tricorders may not tell us so, but they're out there. Lay down your weapons.
TUVOK: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Disarm. I want them to see that we don't pose any threat to them.
TUVOK: May I remind the Commander that Starfleet protocol demands that away teams remain armed and ready to defend themselves until contact is made.
CHAKOTAY: I know all about Starfleet protocol, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: As we have not yet established the inhabitants' intentions, it would not be a logical course of action.
CHAKOTAY: The logical course isn't always the right course. Lay down your weapons in plain sight. Those are my orders.
TUVOK: Would you at least permit me to advise the Captain to move the ship into a stronger tactical position?
CHAKOTAY: Negative. We'll show no force of any kind.
TUVOK: For the record, I must take exception to these orders.
CHAKOTAY: Noted.

[Memory - Central American village]
KOLOPAK: They have reason to be scared. Who can blame them? Their history, our history, is filled with conquerors who brought slavery and disease and death.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Maybe we should just leave them alone.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Father.
KOLOPAK: A chamozi.
KOLOPAK: I honor the sacred land of the Sky Spirits. I have come very far to find you, my cousins.
CHIEF: How do you know our language?
KOLOPAK: It is the language of my ancestors.
CHIEF: We are of the same hand.

[Clearing]
TUVOK: I have no explanation, Commander. There is no storm activity indicated.
CHAKOTAY: All right. Let's get back to the shuttle.

[Jungle]
CHAKOTAY: Hey, wait!
TUVOK: We will never make it.
TORRES: Where's Chakotay?
TUVOK: Away team to Voyager. Emergency beam out.

[Bridge]
TORRES: He was right behind us. I don't understand what could have happened to him.
JANEWAY: Was he wearing the comm. badge the last time you saw him?
TUVOK: Just before the storm, he was using it to speak with you, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, what are the current surface conditions near the shuttle.
PARIS: Surface conditions are back to normal, Captain. Winds, two knots. But I can't find any sign of their shuttle. It's not where they landed it.
JANEWAY: And it isn't airborne?
PARIS: No, ma'am.
JANEWAY: I'll lead the away team back. Mister Tuvok, Lieutenant, you're with me. Mister Paris, you have the
EMH (voiceover): Captain Janeway, this is the Doctor. Please turn to your Emergency Medical Holographic channel.
JANEWAY: What is it, Doctor?
EMH (screen): Something terrible has happened. My program
JANEWAY: Doctor, I think you're carrying this experiment of yours a little too far.
EMH (screen): One hour too far to be precise. I very specifically programmed a twenty nine hour Levodian flu, and it has now been thirty hours.
JANEWAY: Doctor, I'm sorry but we have more pressing matters to
EMH (screen): You can't leave me like this. I need help.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Now, get me somebody who can tweak the computer and make me feel better, immediately.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Very well. Mister Kim is on his way. Try to relax

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Doctor.
KES: I'll see to that, Captain.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I'm going to need you with me, Kes. Prepare a medkit and bring it with you to Transporter room three. Commander Chakotay is still on the surface and may be injured.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway out.
EMH: Oh, I don't understand it. I ran a computer diagnostic and it said my program was fine.
KES: Just rest, Doctor.
EMH: Oh.
KES: Here's a cool holographic towel for your forehead.
EMH: Thank you. Thank you so much. Please, don't go yet.
KES: I have to. The Captain
EMH: I feel like I'm fading. Just fading away. You don't know what that means to a hologram.
KIM: What seems to be the problem?
EMH: Oh. My simulated virus is leading me to a simulated death.
KES: It's nothing to worry about. I just added a couple of hours to his computer program. He'll be fine in about forty five minutes. Knowing when it would end didn't exactly make it a fair test, did it, Doctor?
EMH: She is far more devious than I ever suspected.

[Jungle]
CHAKOTAY: No shuttle. Well, at least they got out okay.

[Clearing]
CHAKOTAY: You have nothing to fear from me. Talk to me. Let me see you.

[Memory - Central American village]
CHIEF: Make our cousins one with us.
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: No, thank you.
CHIEF: He is one of us.

[Clearing]
CHAKOTAY: You have nothing to fear from me. Talk to me. Let me see you.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: I don't understand it. It's the same thing that happened the first time we tried to go down. A storm develops wherever we try to lock on.
JANEWAY: Why would we have the ability to beam people up, but not beam them down?
TUVOK: I believe we have seen enough to discern a pattern, Captain. The logical conclusion is that someone is controlling the elements of nature to ward us off. The transporter anomaly is evidence of this conclusion. We are allowed to leave the planet, but not to approach.
JANEWAY: If that's true, I'd be happy to respect their wishes. But unfortunately, I have a missing crewman to get back first. Janeway to Paris.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Mister Paris, we're going to land Voyager on the surface. Take us into the atmosphere.
PARIS: Acknowledged. Beginning entry sequence.
KIM: I'm reading a electrical storms forming all around us.
PARIS: Adjusting flight path.
KIM: The barometric pressure is continuing to fall. We're looking at monsoon conditions out there.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, the shuttle crew didn't report turbulence this severe during their landing.
PARIS: I'm doing the best I can, Captain. I'm showing gale force winds out there.
TUVOK: It is conceivable that the aliens have been able to intensify their response now that they are familiar with our capabilities.
JANEWAY: Red alert.
PARIS: Inertial dampers are offline. We seem to be caught in some kind of vortex. I can't maintain altitude.
KIM: Captain, it's a cyclone.
PARIS: Altitude, twenty thousand meters and falling. I can't get us out of this thing, Captain.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Torres. We need more power

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): From the engines.
TORRES: I've got them running twenty percent over rated maximum.

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): Captain.
JANEWAY: It's not enough.
KIM: Could we go to low warp under these conditions?
PARIS: The ship might make it without inertial dampers, but we'd all just be stains on the back wall.
TORRES: I can try to

[Engineering]
TORRES: Augment the engines with power from the auxiliary fusion reactors, but it's going to take at least twenty minutes.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: How much time do we have, Mister Paris?
PARIS: Altitude at eighteen thousand meters and falling. At this rate, we're looking at about ten minutes.

[Cave]
CHAKOTAY: If you can hear me, speak to me.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry. I don't know the ancient language of my people. I can't understand.
CHAKOTAY: Chamozi.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Altitude, six thousand meters.
COMPUTER: Warning. Approach vector is too steep. Discontinue landing sequence.
PARIS: Would somebody turn that off, please?
JANEWAY: Engineering. Report.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): We need that extra power, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Ten minutes. I just need

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): Ten minutes.

[Cave]
ALIEN: Do you understand my words now?
CHAKOTAY: Yes.
ALIEN: Explain the face marking.
CHAKOTAY: I wear it to honor my father. He wore it to honor his ancestors.
ALIEN: Ancestors. You are human?
CHAKOTAY: Yes.
ALIEN: Are there others on your world with this mark?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. Not many, but some.
ALIEN: We were taught all of them had been annihilated. We were taught your world had been ravaged by those with no respect for life or land.
CHAKOTAY: There was a time when that was true, but no longer.
ALIEN: He claims to be a descendent of the Inheritors.
CHAKOTAY: Inheritors?
ALIEN: The ones our ancestors chose to honor. I'm surprised you have no memory of the Inheritors. One of our gifts was the memory. If you are a descendent, you should remember.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure I understand.
ALIEN: Perhaps it has been lost over time.
ALIEN: Forty five years ago, on our fist visit to your world, we met a small group of nomadic hunters. They had no spoken language, no culture, except the use of fire and stone weapons. But they did have a respect for the land and for other living creatures that impressed us deeply. We decided to give them an inheritance, a genetic bonding so they might thrive and protect your world. On subsequent visits, we found that our genetic gift brought about a spirit of curiosity and adventure. It impelled them to migrate away from the cold climate to a new, unpeopled land. It took them almost a thousand generations to cross your planet. Hundreds of thousands of them flourished in their new land. Their civilization had a profound influence on others of your species. But then, new people came with weapons and disease. The Inheritors who survived scattered. Many sought refuge in other societies. Twelve generations ago, when we returned, we found no sign of their existence.
CHAKOTAY: My people called you the Sky Spirits. Why have you been hiding from us since we landed here?
ALIEN: When we heard your message, who you were, observed you probing our land, we believed you were a threat. We thought you would annihilate us as you had the Inheritors.
CHAKOTAY: Our message was supposed to communicate peaceful intentions.
ALIEN: We were taught that is the way human conquerors often introduce themselves.
CHAKOTAY: As I said, we've tried to change our ways since the last time you stopped by.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Altitude, two thousand meters.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Stand by, Bridge. We're initiating the transfer now.

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm showing an eight percent boost in the engines.
JANEWAY: That's all?
TORRES (voiceover): The fusion

[Engineering]
TORRES: Reactors are nearly drained. Fighting the storm is taking every reserve we have.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Altitude, one thousand meters.
KIM: Impact in twenty seconds.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna.

[Engineering]
KIM (voiceover): Impact in fifteen seconds.
TORRES: I'm sorry, Captain. That's all we've got.

[Bridge]
KIM: Impact in ten seconds.
JANEWAY: Report.
PARIS: We're free. Gaining altitude. Two thousand meters, twenty five hundred. Dampers back online.
KIM: The storms have completely dissipated. There's not a cloud in the sky.
JANEWAY: Stand down Red alert. Anybody have an explanation?
TUVOK: It appears the inhabitants of this planet have decided to make contact, Captain. The cloaking device has been turned off and we are showing an alien population. I have located the shuttle. It may be possible to locate Commander Chakotay without landing.
JANEWAY: Establish a search pattern, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Begin scanning for human life signs. As soon as you find Chakotay, we'll send down an away team.

[Clearing]
CHAKOTAY: My ship will be coming for me soon.
ALIEN: I'm sorry we cannot permit you to extract all the materials you need.
CHAKOTAY: You were generous to offer as much as you did.
ALIEN: You have a long journey ahead. It took us more than two generations to reach your world.
CHAKOTAY: I wish I could see my father's face right now.
ALIEN: Does he still live?
CHAKOTAY: No. He died fighting enemies who would have taken our home colony. Our tribe moved there a few hundred years ago.
ALIEN: So he honored the land just as his ancestors did.
CHAKOTAY: Yes. Yes, he did. We weren't on very good terms when he died. Once he was gone, I didn't know how to reconcile our differences, how to heal our old wounds. I returned to my colony and continued the fight in his name. I took the mark that he wore to honor his ancestors. I spoke to him in my vision quests, but he never answered. Until now.
ALIEN: Chamozi.
TUVOK: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Put those away.
KOLOPAK (voiceover): Listen to him, Chakotay. Do you hear what he says to you?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, Father. I hear him. I finally hear him.
TUVOK: Four to beam up, Voyager.
CARETAKER: Not enough time! When he died, Voyager's best chance of getting home died with him, but he revealed one hopeful possibility.
CARETAKER: There is another like me. She left hundreds of years ago, but she's out there, somewhere.

[Tuvok's quarters]
TUVOK: Open yourself to the impressions around you. The thoughts, the minds that are on this ship. What do you hear?
KES: Voices. So many voices.
TUVOK: I believe you are sensing the thoughts of various crewmembers on board.
KES: What should I do?
TUVOK: See if you can isolate one of the voices. Imagine you are listening to a symphony and focusing on a single instrument.
KES: It's working.
TUVOK: Try to maintain your emotional equanimity. You should not be concerned with success or failure.
NEELIX (voiceover): way too much now. Don't touch the sideburns.
KES: It's Neelix! I can hear Neelix's thoughts.
TUVOK: That is not unexpected. You have an emotional attachment to him which may have drawn your focus.
NEELIX (voiceover): My scalp itches. Maybe I should tell him about that shampoo of his.
KES: I think he's getting a haircut.
NEELIX (voiceover): Oh no! He's trimmed the ear hairs. I told him the ear hairs were the perfect length! Not the ear hairs!
TUVOK: If you are to succeed in honing your telepathic abilities, you must learn to control these emotional outbursts.
KES: Outburst? It was a giggle.
TUVOK: Tomorrow I will teach you a Vulcan mind control technique that will help you inhibit your giggles.
KES: Thanks, Tuvok.
TUVOK: You may go.

[Sickbay]
EMH: You're late.
KES: Sorry. My lesson with Lieutenant Tuvok went on a little long today.
EMH: Today, yesterday and the day before. You'd think a Vulcan would be more attuned to punctuality.
KES: I'll try to keep a closer eye on the time from now on.
EMH: So, how was school today?
KES: Wonderful. Tuvok helped me with a sensory focus exercise. We worked on my pre-cognitive skills and I learned how to self-induce a hypergogic mental state.
EMH: Sounds stimulating.
KES: He says I'm making excellent progress.
EMH: I had no doubt that you would. But I'd appreciate it if you wouldn't let these mind studies interfere with your
KES: What's that?
EMH: I don't know.
JANEWAY: Life signs.
EMH: Apparently so. But before I could analyze them, the life signs simply ceased.
TORRES: I'm scanning the remains on all biospectral frequencies. It's completely inert. Dead.
JANEWAY: Well, somehow I find it hard to believe this rock suddenly came to life for several seconds.
TUVOK: I concur. However, dead or alive, these are the remains of an alien entity we never fully understood. It may be prudent to place it in a level three biohazard containment field.
JANEWAY: Agreed. But first I want to take a look at
TORRES: I'm picking up life signs. They're sporocystian.
JANEWAY: The Caretaker was a sporocystian life form.
TORRES: But according to my readings, the life signs aren't coming from the remains. The remains are simply resonating in response to an external energy source. Some other lifeform.
EMH: Where?
JANEWAY: Let's find out. Janeway to Bridge. Mister Kim, begin scans for a sporocystian life form.

[Bridge]
KIM: Aye Captain. Stand by. I've got it, Captain. A Sporocystian energy burst approximately ten light years distant. I can't get a precise fix on it's location.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: The lifesigns are gone.
JANEWAY: These remains could be responding to the Caretaker's mate.
TORRES: If that's true, maybe we could use them to track her down.
TUVOK: And if we can find her she might have the ability to send us home.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Torres to Janeway.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
TORRES: We've placed the remains in a hexiprismatic field, Captain. The next time it responds to sporocystian energy, the field

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): Should give us a heading to the source.
JANEWAY: You're using the remains like a compass.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Exactly.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Good work.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Keep us appraised. Janeway out.
TUVOK: Captain, the Caretaker was a being of considerable power, and although his intent was not hostile, we were essentially at his mercy. I do not care to repeat that experience.
JANEWAY: And if we are about to meet his mate, you'd like it to be on more even ground.
TUVOK: Precisely. I have studied the Doctor's biochemical analysis of the Caretaker remains and I believe it is possible to create a sporocystian toxin, something which might debilitate the life form.
JANEWAY: Sounds like a sensible precaution. Get on it.
PARIS: I'm picking up sporocystian energy.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Engineering. We're picking up life signs. Is your compass working?
TORRES (voiceover): Stand by.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Activate the field. I can't get a bearing on the source. Try increasing the spatial resolution.
KIM: Spatial resolution at maximum.
TORRES: The life signs are fading and I still can't get a lock on the coordinates.
KIM: Boosting the signal gain.
TORRES: We've got it, Captain.

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): Bearing two seven two mark one nine.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Mister Paris, set a course and engage at maximum warp.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
PARIS: Captain, we're picking up an artificial structure on long range sensors. It appears to be a space station of some kind.
JANEWAY: Slow to impulse and put it on screen.
CHAKOTAY: That looks a lot like the Caretaker's array.
KIM: The configuration is similar. So is the surface composition, but it's only about one tenth the size.
JANEWAY: Are there any sporocystian life forms on board?
KIM: No, but I am picking up over two thousand carbon based life forms. They appear to be. Wait a second. Confirming. Captain, they're Ocampa.
PARIS: We're approaching the station, Captain.
JANEWAY: All stop. Hail them, Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: No response. I am reading an energy surge from the station, possible weapons.
CHAKOTAY: Shields!
CHAKOTAY: Definitely weapons.
KIM: Shields are holding.
TUVOK: Incoming message from the array.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
TANIS (screen): You're not wanted here.
JANEWAY: We pose no threat to you. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway
TANIS (screen): You have been warned.
KES: They are Ocampa?
JANEWAY: That's right. There appears to be an entire colony. And according to our sensors, the station is at least three hundred years old.
CHAKOTAY: Kes, is there any Ocampa history about people who left your planet, or were captured by aliens and taken away?
KES: No. The idea that there could be Ocampa anywhere but on the homeworld is something no one ever considered. I thought I was the only one.
JANEWAY: Since you're definitely the only one on Voyager, I want you to act as an intermediary.
KES: Gladly. What should I do?
JANEWAY: The first step is to arrange a meeting. Let's see if we can get that far. Hail the array.
TANIS (screen): This is becoming tiresome, Captain. If you force us to take further aggressive action
JANEWAY: I have someone here who wishes to speak with you.
KES: My name is Kes. I'm an Ocampa.
TANIS (screen): This is some kind of trick.
KES: I assure you, it's not a trick.
TANIS (screen): What would an Ocampa be doing on an alien starship?
KES: It's a long story. But I'd like to know what an Ocampa is doing on an alien space station.
TANIS (screen): That is also a long story.
KES: Then I suggest we meet and tell each other our stories. May we come aboard your station?
TANIS (screen): No. But I'm willing to come to your ship.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Our readings indicated a sporocystian life form in this area. We've been looking for that life form for months.
OCAMPA: Why? To destroy it?
JANEWAY: No, on the contrary. We believe it has the technology that could send us home.
TANIS: Captain, are you aware of how your ship is regarded? That when Voyager appears people fear destruction.
OCAMPA: Your ship is known as a ship of death.
JANEWAY: What?
TANIS: You've established quite a reputation. You killed the Caretaker, declared war on the Kazon, raided planets for their resources
CHAKOTAY: None of that is true. We never attacked anyone except in self defense.
TUVOK: And we did not kill the Caretaker. He died of natural causes.
JANEWAY: Mister Tanis, please try to understand. We only want to find the entity we've been looking for.
TANIS (voiceover): I want to talk to you alone.
JANEWAY: Our sensors tell us she is somewhere in this region. Can you help us help us find her?
KES: Captain, I'd like to speak to Tanis alone, if I may.
JANEWAY: Very well.
TANIS: Why should I believe any of this?
KES: These are kind people, Tanis. They saved my life at great risk to themselves when they didn't have to. They wouldn't lie to you.
TANIS: I will admit these people are hardly what I expected. But more unexpected was finding you here, Kes. I had no idea any Ocampa had left the homeworld so recently.
KES: I have about a thousand questions to ask you.
TANIS: I know. And I'm going to try to answer them. Is this where you spend your time?
KES: You mean in this room? No. This is where the Bridge officers usually meet.
TANIS: I want to see where you live. I want to see the place that is special to you.

[Airponics]
TANIS: You did all this?
KES: I had a little help, but yes, most of it is my work.
TANIS: You've done well. Bringing something so beautiful into a place so sterile.
KES: Sterile? Voyager?
TANIS: Look around you, Kes. This is a cold and barren place.
KES: There are over one hundred and fifty people on board. I'd hardly call that barren.
TANIS: There are people, but there's so little life here. Part of me weeps to see you in this place. You're so isolated. Corridors, bulkheads, all cutting you off from the world around you.
KES: You live on a space station. How is it any different?
TANIS: Oh, I assure you, it's very different. You're very young, aren't you.
KES: Two years.
TANIS: Would it surprise you to know I am fourteen years old?
KES: That's not possible! The oldest Ocampa only live to be nine.
TANIS: You know so little about your own people. There's so much for you to learn about yourself, about the galaxy. Being here on this ship is holding you back.
KES: These people are helping me. I'm a member of the crew.
TANIS: I suppose we were like you once. Innocent, naïve. But when Suspiria brought us here three hundred years ago, she began to teach us how we could become stronger than we ever could have on the homeworld.
KES: Suspiria. Is that your Caretaker?
TANIS: We don't think of her as a Caretaker. Her species is actually called the Nacene.
KES: Then you do know her. Where is she?
TANIS: Nearby. But she's so different from the entity you knew. He was only interested in maintaining the status quo. He kept our people servile and weak. Suspiria taught us to develop our psychokinetic skills that had lain dormant for so long. We have abilities far beyond anything you can imagine.
KES: Like what?
TANIS (voiceover): We can enhance life. And that's only the beginning, Kes. I have to return to the station. We'll talk again.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Sounds like you've established a dialogue with Tanis. It's an excellent beginning. Good work.
KES: Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: Kes, is there something wrong?
KES: Not exactly. I'm just a little overwhelmed. I always believed that my people had the potential to be more than what they were, that our mental abilities could be somehow heightened. And now I've met someone who's realized that potential, and I don't know whether to be excited or frightened.
TUVOK: A non-emotional response would be more useful.
JANEWAY: But since you're not a Vulcan, I'd say a mixture of the two emotions would be appropriate. It's an exciting moment, Kes, and I'm very happy for you. But just remember, we know very little about these Ocampa. Be cautious in your dealings with Tanis.
KES: I will, but I just have a good feeling about him.

[Tanis' office]
TANIS: I've met with the Ocampa girl. She has potential.
SUSPIRIA (voiceover): I don't care about the girl. She's yours. Bring me the ship.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: This is delicious. Mister Tanis, is it true you're fourteen years old?
TANIS: Yes, that's quite common with my people here. Suspiria helped us develop a technology to extend the Ocampa life span three generations ago. My father lived to be twenty years.
NEELIX: Would that technology work for Kes?
TANIS: Possibly.
JANEWAY: Where does Suspiria live? On another array?
TANIS: Oh, nothing so corporeal as that. She exists as pure sporocystian energy. She only assumes physical form when we need to communicate with her.
CHAKOTAY: Does she occupy our space-time continuum?
TANIS: I don't know. All I know is, when we need her, she comes. I'll take you to the meeting place. I'm sure all your questions will be answered then. You'll enjoy meeting her, Kes, as well as the other Ocampa here.
KES: I'd love to visit the station.
TANIS: Visit? Why not stay with us?
KES: Stay?
TANIS: Yes. I think you could learn a lot from us, we from you. We haven't been in contact with the Ocampa home world for hundreds of years. we'd be fascinated to hear about our distant cousins.
KES: That sounds wonderful, but
JANEWAY: Kes, you certainly don't have to decide something this important right now. Give it some thought.
TANIS: She's absolutely right. There's no rush.
KES: I appreciate that. I am curious about your mental abilities. They're so much greater than mine.
TUVOK: Do not underestimate your own potential, Kes. Your mental abilities are rapidly maturing.
TANIS: I might be able to help you. No offense to Mister Tuvok, but I am more familiar with the Ocampa mind.
KES: I would appreciate any insight you could give me.
TANIS: Oh, good. Maybe later this evening.

[Engineering]
TUVOK: It is a highly reactive sporocystian toxin.
EMH (screen): I ran a micro-cellular analysis of the Caretaker's remains and discovered a critical enzyme in his cellular structure.
TUVOK: The energy in this cylinder is formulated to break down that enzyme. It would result in temporary paralysis.
JANEWAY: Mister Tanis says she's harmless.
TUVOK: It is my hope we only have to use it as a precautionary measure.
JANEWAY: Very well. Proceed.

[Mess hall]
TANIS: In your mind, visualize your hand. Reach out with that hand and grab the tea cup. Reach out with the fingers of your mind. Grasp it. Do you have it?
KES: I can feel the handle, and the texture of the metal, but I can't move it.
TANIS: Don't try to move it. Just take a drink from it.
TANIS: See? You can do it.
KES: I don't understand. I didn't try to move it.
TANIS: No, you just tried to drink from it. And what would you do if you wanted to take a drink?
KES: I'd reach out and pick it up.
TANIS: That's right. But you wouldn't be thinking about picking it up, you'd simply do it, and that's what you just learned. Focus on the goal, not the task. When you wanted the tea, it came to you.
NEELIX: Ahem, excuse me.
TANIS: We're not finished. I know you're tired, but I want you to try one more thing. It's cold. Wouldn't it taste better if it were hot? See past the liquid, not with your eyes, with your mind. What your eyes show you is only the surface of reality. Look deeper. There is no liquid, there is no cup. There is only a collection of molecules, atoms, moving, vibrating.
KES (voiceover): I see them. They're barely moving.
TANIS (voiceover): That's because they're cold. How would you heat them up?
KES (voiceover): With a fire.
TANIS (voiceover): That's right. With the fire of your mind.
KES (voiceover): How do I do that?
TANIS (voiceover): Focus on the goal, not the task. Don't think about creating a fire, just use it.
KES: Oh, I see it now. it's so simple.
TANIS: That's right. But that's enough for tonight. Tomorrow, I'll take you to the next level. Until then, goodnight.
NEELIX: May I say something now?
KES: Of course, Neelix.
NEELIX: I'm so proud of you. I knew you could do it. This is a whole new beginning for you, Kes.
KES: I know, I know. What if I did go?
NEELIX: Go?
KES: To the Ocampa array. If I decided to live with Tanis and the others, would you go with me?
NEELIX: I'd go anywhere with you.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We've arrived at what Tanis calls the meeting place, the region of space where Suspiria exists.

[Bridge]
KIM: Nothing on sensors, Captain.
TANIS: Captain, may I access your communications equipment?
JANEWAY: Of course.
TANIS: I've sent out a subspace carrier wave. Suspiria should respond within the next forty seven hours. I'll be in my quarters.
JANEWAY: We'll let you know when she makes her appearance.
TANIS: That won't be necessary. I'll know when she's here.

[Tuvok's quarters]
KES: Tanis has shown me the next level. The psychokinetic manipulation of matter.
TUVOK: That is a large step for someone whose mental abilities are still undisciplined. Nevertheless, I am intrigued.
KES: May I?
TUVOK: Please.
KES: He showed me how to use the fire in my mind.
TUVOK: Fascinating. However, I would advise caution in exploring this ability until you have mastered the
KES (voiceover): I have to stop the fire. How do I stop the fire? Tuvok, Tuvok! Tell me what to do! Tuvok!

[Sickbay]
EMH: Lieutenant, can you hear me?
TUVOK: What happened?
EMH: Your cell membranes went through hyperthermic induction. The temperature of your blood rose by thirty seven degrees in a matter of seconds. You were in shock and I resuscitated you. I'm restricting you to light duty for the next three days. Try and get some rest.
TUVOK: That will not be necessary, Doctor. My Vulcan healing techniques do not require an extended period of convalescence.
EMH: Vulcans make the worst patients. Fine. But if you're feeling any nausea or dizziness I'm expecting you to report to Sickbay at once.
TUVOK: Of course.
KES: Tuvok, I'm so
TUVOK: You are probably feeling the emotion known as remorse, possibly guilt. I advise you to look on this incident as a learning experience.
KES: It's not that easy. I almost killed you.
TUVOK: That is correct. But you did not. Try to remember that. I will see you tomorrow at fifteen hundred hours, assuming you wish to continue your training.
KES: You still want to teach me?
TUVOK: If this experience proves anything, it is that you need further instruction, and I would regret not continuing as your instructor.
KES: Thanks, Tuvok.

[Airponics]
TANIS: How's the Vulcan? Is he going to recover?
KES: You heard?
TANIS: In a manner of speaking. I was aware of what happened.
KES: He's going to be all right, no thanks to me. Tanis, I've been thinking. I don't know if I'm ready for this.
TANIS: What's wrong?
KES: If I can't control my abilities, there might be another accident.
TANIS: I'm afraid it isn't going to get any easier, Kes. You're already starting to manifest abilities far beyond anything you've ever imagined. Soon you'll be so far beyond the other beings on this ship that you'll look at them as they look at pets.
KES: They're not pets. They're people, they're my friends.
TANIS: And I'm sure you care for them very much. I'm sure they're wonderful people. They certainly seem that way to me but, it's time that you began to accept how different you are from them. The people on this ship, they live their lives trapped inside their primitive skulls, depending on flesh and bone to tell them what the universe is like. They don't know what it is to see beyond the physical. Touch it. This is how they know the universe. They touch the flower, their nerve impulses travel up their arm to the brain, and in their mind they sense the moisture of the petals, the texture of the leaves, the sharpness of the thorns, and think they know what it feels like. But they don't. Now touch it. Reach out with your thoughts. Feel it for the very first time. Think of nothing but the flower. It's the only object in the universe. Know it. Know it in a way only an Ocampa can. Can you see it?
KES: Yes. It's more than seeing. It's more than touching. I know this flower.
TANIS: You can do more. Reach out. Feel all the life in this room.
KES: Yes, I can feel it. I know them all. They're so beautiful!
TANIS: They can be more beautiful. Bring the fire!
TANIS: How did it feel?
KES: They're dead. They're all dead. Amazing.
TANIS: You felt life. You embraced its essence with your mind, and then you transformed it. There's nothing else like it in the universe.
KES: I killed those plants. Just like I almost killed Tuvok. But I don't want to hurt anybody.
TANIS: Of course you don't. That's not the point. Help people, hurt them, give life, kill, it's all the same. Once you see beyond the physical, you see the universe as it truly is. Now you know why you can't stay with these people, why you have to come with me. Come back to the station. We'll care for you. We'll train you.
KES: Oh, I don't know. I still need some more time to think about it.
TANIS: Take all the time you want. But when you meet Suspiria, I think you'll decide to join us.
KES: Why?
TANIS: Because Suspiria is your future. She's part of us, and we're a part of her. All the Ocampa here are connected in a way that can't be put into words. And if you develop your abilities far enough, Suspiria will invite you to go with her to Exotia.
KES: Exotia?
TANIS: A place the humanoids on this ship call a subspace layer. A place of pure thought, pure energy. A place of the mind. Think about it, Kes. When you're ready, Suspiria will embrace you. Goodnight.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Torres to Bridge.

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): The Caretaker's remains are resonating

[Engineering]
TORRES: Again. It's definitely reacting to a sporocystian lifeform. And from what I can tell, that lifeform is right on top of us.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Acknowledged.
KIM: Captain, there's a subspace rupture forming directly ahead.
JANEWAY: Yellow alert. Janeway to Tanis. Will you please come to the Bridge? I believe we've made contact with Suspiria.
TANIS (voiceover): I know. I'm on my way.

[Engineering]
TORRES: I think we should run a biospectral analysis. Some of these readings are pretty strange. And get me the sensor logs on that subspace rupture out there.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, I'm picking up some strange readings in Engineering. Some kind of plasmatic energy field is forming.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Torres. We're picking up some odd plasmatic readings down there. Can you confirm? Janeway to Torres.
TUVOK: Security, meet me in main Engineering.
SECURITY (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Mess hall]
TANIS: It's time to go.
KES: Go? Where?
TANIS: Back to the Ocampa station. Everyone's waiting for you, Kes. The connection has been made. You're part of us now. Your future has already begun.

[Engineering]
TUVOK: Tuvok to Bridge.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
TUVOK: I believe the female Caretaker is here.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Commander, you have the Bridge.

[Mess hall]
TANIS: Can't you feel the connection? Your people are calling to you. Listen to them.
KES: Yes, I can hear them. All of them.
TANIS: And can you hear Suspiria?

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Tuvok?
JANEWAY: Who are you?
SUSPIRIA: Suspiria.
JANEWAY: I've been looking forward to meeting you.
SUSPIRIA: Why?
JANEWAY: Because I had the opportunity to talk to your companion before he died.
SUSPIRIA: Yes, I know.

[Mess hall]
KES: I can feel her presence. She's powerful, turbulent. She's upset. She's angry!
TANIS: Kes.
KES: She wants to destroy the ship!
TANIS: Kes, listen to me. There's nothing to worry about.
NEELIX: Am I interrupting?

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: He told us that you were curious and went off to explore the galaxy. We're explorers too, but your friend brought us to this quadrant against our will, and we haven't been able to find a way back.
SUSPIRIA: Is that why you killed him?
JANEWAY: We didn't kill him.
SUSPIRIA: You destroyed the Array and you took his remains.
JANEWAY: I assure you
SUSPIRIA: No!
SUSPIRIA: You killed him, and now I will kill you.
SUSPIRIA: Now you will know what frail, small creatures you truly are.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: What's going on?
PARIS: I don't know. It's like the entire molecular structure of the ship is coming apart.
CHAKOTAY: Red alert. Bridge to Janeway. Bridge to Janeway.
KIM: We're losing hull integrity.
CHAKOTAY: Increase power to structural reinforcement.
PARIS: Aye, sir.

[Mess hall]
TANIS: Forget these people. You're beyond them.
KES: No.
NEELIX: Leave her alone, Tanis!
TANIS: Remember how you felt in the Airponics bay? You've never felt that way in your entire life, have you?
KES: Get away from me!
TANIS: That was only the beginning, Kes.
NEELIX: I said, leave her alone!
KES: Neelix!
TANIS: Leave him! Leave him, Kes. He's nothing compared to you. Nothing! You have to trust.
KES: Oh, Neelix.
TANIS: Suspiria!

[Engineering]
SUSPIRIA: So, now you kill me as you did my mate.
JANEWAY: No. I told you we didn't kill him. Please try to understand. We don't want to hurt you. We don't want to hurt anyone. We just want to get home.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, release the forcefield.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: Do it.
SUSPIRIA: You'd show me mercy after what I did to you?
JANEWAY: Yes, I would.

[Mess hall]
TANIS: Take me with you, please.

[Engineering]
TUVOK: It appears she has descended into subspace.
JANEWAY: Can you track her position?
TUVOK: Negative. The rupture has been sealed. She is gone, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We've resumed our course back to the Alpha quadrant but the female Caretaker is still out there with the power to send us home, and I will use all my power to find her and convince her to do just that.

[Tuvok's quarters]
KES: I looked at the tea and I tried to make it boil, but nothing happened. Without Tanis's help, I just can't do it.
TUVOK: Nevertheless, your psychokinetic abilities are still a part of you. They might resurface one day.
KES: To be honest, I never want to see that part of myself again.
TUVOK: To which part are you referring?
KES: To the part of me which got pleasure from destroying those plants in the Airponics bay. To the part of me that was tempted to go with Tanis. I never realized I had such dark impulses.
TUVOK: Without the darkness, how would we recognize the light? Do not fear your negative thoughts. They are part of you. They are a part of every living being, even Vulcans.
KES: You?
TUVOK: The Vulcan heart was forged out of barbarism and violence. We learned to control it, but it is still part of us. To pretend it does not exist is to create an opportunity for it to escape. Let us begin. Open yourself to the impressions around you. The thoughts, the minds that are on this ship.

[Turbolift]
CHAKOTAY: Whatever she wants us for, it better be good. Bridge. I had you right where I wanted you.
TORRES: What are you talking about? I was ahead, nineteen seven.
CHAKOTAY: I was just lulling you into a false sense of security.
TORRES: Sure you were.
CHAKOTAY: I'll win the next couple of points, then you'll start to tense up.
TORRES: I do not tense up.
CHAKOTAY: Easy, B'Elanna. It's only hoverball.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: You wanted to see us, Captain?
JANEWAY: Yes, Commander. We've picked up an intriguing transmission.
TUVOK: I have a source on the signal.
JANEWAY: A ship?
TUVOK: Negative. It appears to be a beacon of some kind.
CHAKOTAY: A beacon?
TUVOK: We are being hailed by someone using a Federation signal.
TORRES: How could someone be transmitting a Federation signal from the Delta quadrant?
PARIS: Maybe Starfleet found a way to get a probe here. Maybe they're looking for us.
JANEWAY: I'd like to believe that too, but let's not jump to conclusions.
CHAKOTAY: See if you can authenticate the signal.
TUVOK: The carrier wave frequency does correspond to standard Starfleet security codes.
JANEWAY: As of when?
TUVOK: According to the encryption key, this particular code was not scheduled for implementation until stardate 48423.
KIM: That's a month after we left Deep Space Nine. They must be looking for us.
JANEWAY: Your optimism may be premature, Mister Kim.
KIM: Sorry, Captain.
JANEWAY: But it's also infectious. Mister Paris, lay in a course for the beacon.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
PARIS: We're approaching the beacon's coordinates, Captain.
KIM: It's drifted inside an ionized hydrogen cloud. The cloud's interfering with our sensor readings.
JANEWAY: Can you get any information from the beacon?
KIM: I'm afraid not. Should I beam it aboard?
CHAKOTAY: I'd advise against bringing it on board before we've gotten a look at it, even if it is emitting a Federation signal.
JANEWAY: Agreed. And I don't want to fly blindly into a hydrogen cloud, either. Mister Tuvok, tractor the probe into sensor range.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. Targeting scanners locked. Initiating tractor beam.
JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: We are taking fire from inside the cloud.
JANEWAY: Source?
TUVOK: Unknown.
JANEWAY: Battle stations.
TUVOK: A Kazon raider is closing at one five eight mark nine.
JANEWAY: Hail them, Mister Kim.
KIM: They're not responding, Captain.
JANEWAY: Warp three, Mister Paris. Get us out of here.
PARIS: Aye. Warp engines are offline, Captain.
JANEWAY: Initiate evasive pattern omega three. Mister Tuvok, return fire.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
KIM: Kazon ship is in pursuit.
TUVOK: An opening is forming in the starboard shields, seventy two centimeters in diameter.
JANEWAY: See if you can close it, Commander. Try rotating the shield harmonics.
TUVOK: They are continuously matching their weapons frequency to our shield frequency.
JANEWAY: How the hell can they do that?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know.
TUVOK: The diameter of the opening has widened to approximately two meters.
CHAKOTAY: Set the shield harmonics to rotate continuously.
TUVOK: Aye, Commander. Diameter of the opening is now approximately four meters.
CHAKOTAY: It's as if they know our access codes.
TUVOK: Captain, I am picking up a smaller vessel emerging from the hydrogen cloud. It is heading directly toward the opening in our shields.
JANEWAY: All hands, brace for impact.
COMPUTER: Warning. Hull breach on deck four, Cargo bay two.
TUVOK: Structural integrity is at fifty percent and dropping. The hull is starting to buckle.
JANEWAY: We are losing life support on deck four.
TUVOK: I am trying to initiate an emergency containment field. However, the collision has caused a power failure on deck four.
KIM: Rerouting power to compensate.
TUVOK: Containment field activated.
COMPUTER: Warning. Intruder alert in Cargo Bay two.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Security. Meet me outside Cargo Bay two.
SECURITY (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[Cargo bay]
TUVOK: Drop your weapons.

[Bridge]
PARIS: It's no use. We're not going anywhere with that shuttle sticking out of our side. It's totally destabilizing our warp field.
CHAKOTAY: Mister Kim, did you reroute power to Transporter room two?
KIM: No, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Tuvok.

[Cargo bay]
TUVOK: Tuvok here.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): There may be intruders in Transporter Room two.
TUVOK: I'm on my way.

[Transporter room]
TUVOK: Tuvok to Bridge.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
TUVOK: The Kazon have beamed away, Captain, and they've taken one of our transporter modules with them.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Can you lock onto the module and beam it back?
TUVOK (voiceover): Not at the moment. As soon as the Kazon dematerialized

[Transporter room]
TUVOK: We lost all transporter power.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Chakotay, lock a tractor beam onto their ship. They're not leaving with that module.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
KIM: The Kazon are powering their warp engines, Captain.
JANEWAY: Make it fast, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Engaging tractor beam. I've got them, Captain.
KIM: The Kazon ship is hailing us.
JANEWAY: Suddenly they want to talk. On screen.
CULLUH (screen): Captain Janeway, First Maje Culluh of the Kazon-Nistrim.
JANEWAY: I remember you, Culluh. That transporter module you just stole was specifically designed for our ship. You'll never be able to integrate it into your systems.
CULLUH (screen): I've had some help updating our technology since we last met.
JANEWAY: Seska.
SESKA (screen): That's right, Captain. As you can see, I'm in the process of restoring my Cardassian physiology. Hello, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: I should have known you were involved.
SESKA (screen): Yes, you should have. Just like I knew you'd try to stop us with a tractor beam. You've always been so predictable.
KIM: Captain, their deflector shields are creative a feedback loop. It's neutralizing the tractor emitter.
CHAKOTAY: Attempting to compensate.
SESKA (screen): Goodbye, Chakotay. Lovely to see you again.
KIM: It's too late. They've gone to warp.

[Cargo bay]
TORRES: They modified the bow to puncture our hull.
NEELIX: I've never seen the Kazon do anything like this before.
TUVOK: Until now, the Kazon have never had an advisor with Cardassian, Maquis and Starfleet tactical experience.
KIM: The question is, how do we dislodge it without losing structural integrity? With power down, our containment fields are already extremely unstable.
TORRES: We'll have to reroute additional power to the containment field and tow their shuttle out with one of our own. Then we can repair the breach. The shields and the warp drive will have to wait.
JANEWAY: Warp drive isn't going to do us much good with this knife stuck in our belly. Get it out fast. We don't want the Kazon to put too much distance between us.
NEELIX: Forgive me, Captain, but are you sure going after the Nistrim is the wisest course of action after what they've already done to us?
JANEWAY: Let me make something very clear. The Nistrim are in possession of Federation technology. That is an unacceptable situation.
NEELIX: Even though all they've stolen is a small computer component?
JANEWAY: That small component has the potential to cause vast problems in this quadrant. You're our resident expert on the Kazon. What do you think the other sects will do when they realize the Nistrim have transporter capabilities?
NEELIX: They'll try to get it for themselves any way they can. You're right. It could alter the balance of power among the sects.
JANEWAY: Exactly. And it is our duty to do everything we can, no matter how dangerous, to stop that from happening.
NEELIX: You can count on me, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: From the look of these sensor readings, Seska wants us to come after her.
JANEWAY: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I think Seska's leading us into another trap. She masterminded a precision raid that made us look like first year Academy students, but she left a warp trail for us to follow. After such a flawless performance, why would she suddenly made that kind of mistake?
JANEWAY: You think she wants more than the transporter. Are you suggesting we don't follow her?
CHAKOTAY: No, I agree with everything you said about preventing the spread of our technology. But conventional tactics aren't going to work with Seska. We'll need to come at her with a few surprises of our own.
JANEWAY: I'm open to suggestions.
TUVOK: Perhaps Commander Chakotay could use his intimate knowledge of Seska to manipulate her in much the same way she manipulated us.

[Kazon briefing room]
CULLUH: It can move people great distances in the blink of an eye, Haron. But this transporter is only the beginning.
HARON: Go on, I'm listening.
CULLUH: There is a ship filled with new technology. Devices that can make food, water, even weapons appear out of thin air. A computer system which uses neural tissue that can react twice as fast as ours.
HARON: Very interesting, Culluh, but what does all this have to do with me?
CULLUH: That ship is on its way here. Help us and we can divide the spoils.

[Engineering]
TORRES: The module Seska stole contains a quantum resonance oscillator. So, we modify this coil scanner to detect the oscillator, then we get close enough to beam it back.
CHAKOTAY: I'm betting Seska's figured out a way to shield the module from our transporters. We might have to destroy it instead.
TORRES: How do we do that?
CHAKOTAY: We borrow a trick from Seska's book. Remember how we disabled the computer core on the Cardassian frigate orbiting Bajor?
TORRES: Seska modified an anti-proton beam to penetrate its shields and hull.
CHAKOTAY: Exactly.
TORRES: But if I remember correctly, the beam was only effective from an extremely close range. How do we get near enough to the Nistrim ship?
CHAKOTAY: One thing at a time.
TORRES: You're taking this all very personally, aren't you?
CHAKOTAY: Why shouldn't I?
TORRES: You're not responsible for what happened.
CHAKOTAY: Oh no? I let her join the Maquis. I took her into my confidence. I even got intimately involved with her.
TORRES: So you have lousy taste in women. Look, Chakotay, she fooled us all. She was my best friend. Or at least, that's what I thought.
CHAKOTAY: Well, I for one, am through being manipulated by her.
TORRES: Are you sure? Because she's affecting you. That's just where she wants you. Don't tense up.
CHAKOTAY: So now I'm getting advice about controlling my emotions from you.

[Kazon briefing room]
HARON: Our sects have been blood enemies for generations, and yet now you ask for my help to defeat this Voyager. Why not simply do it yourselves? I'll tell you why. Because the Nistrim are weak and the Relora are strong. Your grandfather's time has passed, Culluh. You've presided over the demise of your own sect, whittled away your strength
CULLUH: Enough! You may have ships and soldiers, but I have the technology.
HARON: And I congratulate you on the daring and cunning of your raid. Now, why don't you give me this transporter technology, assuming it's authentic, and let the Relora do what we do best? When we have defeated the Voyager, we will not forget the Nistrim's assistance.
CULLUH: You think I'm a fool? I won't hand this technology over to you.
HARON: Then perhaps we will have to take it.
SESKA: Why don't we let the Maje go back to his ship while we consider his offer.
HARON: Listen to your woman, Culluh.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Picking up a gap in the Nistrim's warp trail, Captain.
JANEWAY: All stop. Let's take a look.
KIM: Captain, I've got some floating debris at bearing three one nine mark four.
JANEWAY: On screen. What is it?
KIM: I'm not sure yet.
JANEWAY: Magnify.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I'm detecting a residual transporter signature. There is no doubt that this man and his unfortunate companion were beamed into space.
KES: And according to these readings, they were alive at the time, Captain.
JANEWAY: It looks like Seska's already adapted the transporter module into the Kazon's systems and started experimenting with it.
EMH: Her early trials appear to have been less than successful.
NEELIX: I'm not so sure these men died by accident, Captain. You see this green band he's wearing? It means he was the First Maje of the Kazon-Relora.
JANEWAY: Relora?
NEELIX: Sworn enemies of the Nistrim. It's conceivable that Seska and Culluh used the transporter to execute these men. Captain's log, stardate 49208.5. I have convened a meeting of the senior staff to determine how we can get close enough to the Nistrim ship to deploy the anti-proton beam.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Where's Chakotay?
TORRES: He was in Engineering helping me modify the coil scanner. He said he'd be right up.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Chakotay. Computer, locate Commander Chakotay.
COMPUTER: Commander Chakotay is not aboard the ship.

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: Computer, when will we intercept the Kazon vessel?
COMPUTER: Approximately thirty minutes.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: What I want to know, Mister Tuvok, is how he was able to get a shuttlecraft off this ship without either of us knowing about it.
TUVOK: Apparently he was able to override the lockout command.
JANEWAY: I guess Seska's not the only one who knows how to compromise our security systems.
TUVOK: I assure you, Captain, it will not happen again.
JANEWAY: See that it doesn't. Did Chakotay leave any clue about what he's up to?

[Engineering]
TUVOK: I have accessed his personal logs, but there is no reference to his leaving Voyager.
JANEWAY: I guess he was in too big a hurry to leave a note.
TORRES: The coil scanner was right here. He must've taken it with him.
JANEWAY: Then I guess it's pretty clear he's going after Seska.
TORRES: Looks like that.
JANEWAY: You were working with him, Lieutenant. Did he say anything to you?
TORRES: Just that he thought he felt responsible for Seska and was determined to stop her. But I never thought he would try to do this alone.
JANEWAY: How big a head start does he have?
TUVOK: Approximately three hours.
JANEWAY: Janeway to conn.
PARIS (voiceover): Paris here, Captain.
JANEWAY: Lay in a pursuit course for Commander Chakotay's shuttlecraft. Maximum impulse.
PARIS (voiceover): Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: And Mister Tuvok, I want a complete review of all security protocols on this ship by twenty two hundred hours.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.

[Kazon bridge]
CULLUH: You said the Relora would join us. I should never have listened to you.
SESKA: I was wrong. I'm sorry.
CULLUH: Kazon sects do not help one another.
SESKA: Don't be so sure about that. What did you do to the two men who refused your offer?
CULLUH: I killed them.
SESKA: Yes. And by doing that, you sent a message. The Kazon-Nistrim are powerful again. First Maje Jal Culluh has technology that no other sect possesses. Join with him, or suffer the consequences.
CULLUH: Maybe the mistake was to approach the Relora. They're already strong. But the transporter may be enough to convince the Hobii to join me. And perhaps the Mostral.
SESKA: Yes. And with a few more ships, you can defeat Voyager. And when you have the rest of their technology, the other sects will have no choice but to fall into line. That's why I sent a subspace message to the Mostral, the Hobii and the Oglamar.
CULLUH: You did what?
SESKA: I told them about the transporter, asked them to help us take Voyager.
CULLUH: You have gone too far.
SESKA: I sent the messages in your name.
CULLUH: I am the leader of this sect. You are only a woman.
SESKA: I'm sorry, Culluh.
CULLUH: You'll address me as Maje.
SESKA: Yes. Maje. Please, forgive me.
CULLUH: So, how did the other sects respond to my request?
SESKA: They're on their way to join us.
CULLUH: I could do what no one has done since Jal Sankur united the sects to overthrow the Trabe.
SESKA: Yes, Maje.
CULLUH: I could have hundreds of ships and thousands of soldiers under my command.
SESKA: Yes, Maje.
CULLUH: I could be the most powerful Kazon in the quadrant.
SESKA: Yes, Maje.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
TORRES: Do you have a minute, Captain? It's about Chakotay.
JANEWAY: That's not exactly my favorite subject right now, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Well, I thought that maybe I could explain
JANEWAY: Explain what? Why my First Officer publicly defied my authority by commandeering a shuttle without permission?
TORRES: I know it was never his intention to defy you. He respects your authority.
JANEWAY: But?
TORRES: But he's a very proud man. And he's been embarrassed by Seska.
JANEWAY: What Seska did, she did to all of us. Frankly, I find it more than a little self-indulgent of Chakotay to assume this is all about him.
TORRES: He never said it to me directly but, I think he was in love with her. And then he found out that everything he knew about her was a lie. You said that he publicly defied your authority. Can you imagine what it must have been like for someone as private as Chakotay to be publicly humiliated by someone he loved? And then, as if that weren't enough, she came back to taunt him in front of the entire Bridge crew.
JANEWAY: I'm sure it was very painful for him. But what you're saying is, he's got a personal score to settle.
TORRES: That's only part of it. I know Chakotay. This is his way of taking responsibility. In his mind, he's trying to protect the rest of us from a dangerous situation which he created.
JANEWAY: Maybe. But that doesn't give him the privilege of ignoring this ship's chain of command.
TORRES: I know that. It's just that Chakotay would never tell you any of this himself.
JANEWAY: And, assuming we get him back in one piece, you want to make sure I take his personal feelings into account before I decide how to discipline him.
TORRES: I know that you're well within your rights to throw him into the brig, but, well
JANEWAY: Chakotay is lucky to have such a good friend. I'll tell you what. Why don't we deal with getting him back in one piece first? We can worry about the discipline later.
TORRES: Thank you.

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: Computer, when will we enter the Kazon vessel scanner range?
COMPUTER: Approximately six minutes.
CHAKOTAY: Reduce power to maneuvering thrusters, and life support to five percent. Cut all power to other systems.

[Kazon bridge]
SESKA: The Mostral should be here in less than twenty hours. The Hobii in fifteen.
CULLUH: Come look at this. Intermittent EM readings?
SESKA: I don't think so.

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: Computer, initiate continuous scans for the transporter oscillator.
COMPUTER: Initiating scans.

[Kazon bridge]
SESKA: Those aren't normal fluctuations. They're energy spikes from maneuvering thrusters. Probably a shuttle running shadow maneuvers. He knows our scanners can't pinpoint energy readings that low.
CULLUH: Who?
SESKA: Maybe we can resonate a coherent polaron pulse off his hull. Get a lock on him that way. Initiate a continuous stream of pulses from the lateral deflectors.
KAZON CREWMAN: Maje?

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: Come on, Seska. Where did you hide that module?

[Kazon bridge]
SESKA: There you are. Open a channel.
CULLUH: To whom?
SESKA: Just transmit on wideband subspace. He'll hear me.

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: Come on, find it!
SESKA (voiceover): Hello Chakotay. Very clever maneuvering, but I'm not about to let you ruin all my hard work.

[Kazon bridge]
SESKA: Deploy a spread of photonic charges centerd on coordinates one two four by two one seven. Twenty percent nominal yield.
CULLUH: That won't be enough.
SESKA: We want that shuttle intact.

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: Gotcha! Computer, power the anti-proton generator.
COMPUTER: Generator ready.
CHAKOTAY: Target a concentrated beam to these coordinates.
COMPUTER: Beam targeted.
CHAKOTAY: Initiate.
COMPUTER: The generator is offline.
CHAKOTAY: Great. Computer, launch the automated message beacon.
COMPUTER: Beacon launched.
CHAKOTAY: Now take the inertial dampers offline.

[Kazon bridge]
SESKA: He's lost control of the shuttle. We have him.
CULLUH: Lock the towing emitter onto his vessel and bring him into the main hangar.

[Shuttlecraft]
CULLUH (voiceover): Culluh calling Seska.
SESKA: This is Seska.
CULLUH (voiceover): He's not here.
SESKA: He must've transported aboard. Find him!
CHAKOTAY: I'm right here.
CHAKOTAY: Activate the message beacon. Lovely to see you again.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, I'm detecting a Federation beacon at bearing zero five seven mark seven two.
KIM: This one's definitely ours, Starfleet issue.
JANEWAY: All stop.
TUVOK: The beacon is transmitting an automated message. It is from Commander Chakotay.
JANEWAY: On screen.
CHAKOTAY (screen): To Voyager. If this signal has been activated, it means that I have destroyed the Nistrim's transporter capabilities. Captain, I apologize for acting without authorisation, but I ask you not to put the ship or crew in further jeopardy by attempting to rescue me. It's unlikely that I'm still alive. Chakotay to Voyager. If this signal has been activated

[Kazon ship]
SESKA: You can go.
CHAKOTAY: I see the Nistrim take orders from you now.
SESKA: Let's just say I'm in a position of some influence. Which is fortunate for you. Culluh wanted to execute you immediately, but I convinced him that you'd be a valuable prisoner, and that I should be the one to interrogate you.
CHAKOTAY: Lucky me.
SESKA: Would you like a drink? The Kazon word for this is enemy's blood. It's not exactly fine cognac, but I've developed a taste for it. Try some.
CHAKOTAY: No, thanks.
SESKA: You know, I've got to hand it to you. I thought all these months answering to Janeway would have made you soft, but all you needed was a little slap in the face to get that Maquis heart of yours beating again. Here's to old times.
CHAKOTAY: I have no interest in reminiscing with you. I destroyed the transporter module. The game's over.
SESKA: What do I need with a single transporter module when I've got your shuttle and all its technology sitting in our hangar?
CHAKOTAY: I think you'll find that technology useless. I wiped the computer core before I transported.
SESKA: I should have anticipated that.
CHAKOTAY: So if you're going to have me killed, just do it.
SESKA: You're still the noble one, aren't you? Ready to die for your shipmates. You know, Chakotay, I may not have the transporter anymore, but I've got something better. You. Maybe that's all I really wanted. I've missed you.
CHAKOTAY: You can't possibly believe that you and I could still
SESKA: Don't flatter yourself. It was never that good. You might have been an interesting diversion now and then, but I've always been less interested in you than in the information you could provide me with. First you gave me your Maquis secrets, and now I want Voyager's command codes.
CHAKOTAY: If you think I'm going to give you those codes, you don't know me as well as you think you do.
SESKA: Maybe not. But for old time's sake, I'll let you in on a little secret. There are half a dozen ships from other Kazon sects on the way here right now. They're joining us to help take Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Why are you telling me this?
SESKA: I'm not a monster. I still care about Torres and some of the others. I don't want to see anybody get hurt. I never did.
CHAKOTAY: I'm touched.
SESKA: These Kazon aren't as reasonable as you and I. I'm going to have to use all of my influence to make sure they don't kill you all. But you've got to give me something to work with.
CHAKOTAY: Voyager's not coming. I left them explicit instructions not to follow me, so you can stop worrying about people getting hurt.
SESKA: They'll come. They'd never leave their First Officer in the hands of the Kazon. You may not give me the command codes, but when Culluh gets through with you, you'll wish you had.

[Briefing room]
TUVOK: The message appears to be authentic, Captain.
TORRES: We've got to go get him.
TUVOK: Commander Chakotay has expressly requested that we not attempt to do so.
TORRES: We don't have to honor that request. Captain?
TUVOK: If a rescue attempt forces us to engage the Kazon, there is always a possibility that more of our technology will fall into their hands.
KIM (voiceover): Kim to the Captain. I'm picking up several vessels converging on the Nistrim's location.
JANEWAY: My gut tells me we should go after Chakotay. But my better judgment tells me we should honor his request.
TORRES: I would never want you to ignore your judgment, Captain, but let me ask you this. In your judgment, how would the loss of our First Officer affect this crew? What would it do to the morale on this ship? Maybe this is an instance when your gut is giving you better advice.
JANEWAY: Janeway to conn.
PARIS (voiceover): Paris here.
JANEWAY: Resume a course for Chakotay's shuttle.
PARIS (voiceover): Aye, Captain.

[Kazon ship]
CULLUH: I'm losing patience, Federation.
SESKA: Just tell him what he needs to know.
CHAKOTAY: She's quite a woman, isn't she? Does she rub your shoulders and tell you you're the most exciting man she's ever known? That's what she used to do for me. What's a matter? Didn't she tell you about us?
CULLUH: Stop playing games and give me the command codes.
CHAKOTAY: Flattery, devotion, sex. I always thought she had a lot to offer a man.
CULLUH: You talk too much, Federation, but you're not telling me what I need to know.
CHAKOTAY: You're wrong, Culluh. I'm telling you exactly what you need to know. She's using you.
CULLUH: I'm the one who's using her.
CHAKOTAY: You've done an even better job on him than you did on me.
CULLUH: You talk to me, not to her.
CHAKOTAY: Then what's she doing here? Watching you work? She used to like to watch me work, too.
CULLUH: I don't believe a word you're saying, so you can stop trying to distract me now and start answering questions.
CHAKOTAY: You know one thing I especially liked? The little mole on her stomach. I guess you've seen it.
CULLUH: I'm through wasting my strength on you.
CULLUH: Now, give me the command codes.
CHAKOTAY: I'll give you something better.
CULLUH: What?
CHAKOTAY: First hand information.
CULLUH: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY: When Seska's through with you, she's going to kill you.
SESKA: He's delirious. He doesn't know what he's saying. Give him some time.
CULLUH: I'll be back in one hour. For his sake, he better be more cooperative.
SESKA: Very clever ploy, Chakotay. But you know I'm not a killer. If I were, you'd have been dead a long time ago.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I have located the Nistrim vessel on long-range sensors. Distance, point four light years. However, they are not alone. There are now at least six other Kazon ships in the immediate vicinity.
JANEWAY: I didn't think Culluh had that many ships.
NEELIX: They must belong to enemy sects.
TUVOK: That may be so, but the ships have not powered their weapons systems.
JANEWAY: What do you make of it, Neelix?
NEELIX: It's certainly unusual for rival Kazon sects to congregate peacefully.
JANEWAY: Is it possible the Nistrim have formed an alliance with other sects?
NEELIX: I've never known the Kazon to do anything like that before.
TUVOK: If the Nistrim have added six ships to their force, it would be tactically unwise to engage them.
JANEWAY: Then we'll just have to find a way of getting Chakotay out of there without picking a fight.
TORRES: We can transport him out.
TUVOK: We would have to slow down once within transporter range, giving the Kazon ample time to open fire.
TORRES: Not necessarily. We could beam him out at warp speed without even slowing down. The Kazon would never be able to catch us.
KIM: That's difficult enough when both ships are traveling at warp. The Kazon ship's not even moving.
TORRES: I can compensate for that.
JANEWAY: How?
TORRES: By synchronizing the transporter's annular confinement beam to the warp core frequency.
KIM: Maybe, but at a relative speed of two billion kilometers per second, it's pretty tough to get a lock on somebody.
TUVOK: Ensign Kim is correct. We would risk scrambling his transporter signal and killing him. It would be a direct violation of Starfleet's safety protocols.
TORRES: Do you have a better idea? Trust me, Captain. I can do it.
JANEWAY: How can you be so sure?
TORRES: Because I've done it before. When you're a Maquis, you don't always have the luxury of following protocols.

[Kazon briefing room]
CULLUH: Ah, Jal Surat of the Mostral. May I present Jal Loran of the Hobii, and Jal Valek of the Oglamar.
SURAT: We've met before, in battle.
CULLUH: Please, Jal Surat, sit down. Today is the day Kazon children will remember for generations. Today is the day we put aside our differences and join forces to defeat Voyager. Today is the day that marks the end of the supremacy of the Relora and the Ogla, because after today, we will have the Federation technology. And the other sects will run when they see us.
SURAT: That's a fine speech, Culluh, but what makes you think Voyager won't use this technology to defeat us?
CULLUH: Because I have Voyager's command codes.
SURAT: I have heard what you did to the Relora Maje and his companion. Very impressive. But before I make an enemy of these Federations, I want proof that you have their command codes.
CULLUH: May I present Commander Chakotay, Voyager's First Officer.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Sixty seconds to transporter range, Captain.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Torres. Have you located Chakotay?

[Transporter room]
TORRES: I'm reading Kazon life signs but still no Chakotay.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, I must remind you that we have no direct evidence the Commander is still alive or if he is, that he is still aboard that ship.
JANEWAY: I'm not conceding that yet. Can you give me anything, B'Elanna?

[Transporter room]
TORRES: I'm picking up some kind of localized dampening field. It's blocking our targeting scanners.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Maybe Seska's found a way to hide Chakotay from us.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: You may be right. I've got reinitialize the targeting scanners to much the relative phase of the dampening field. I've found him, Captain.

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): He's still alive.
JANEWAY: Can you get him out of there?
TORRES (voiceover): The dampening field is disrupting

[Transporter room]
TORRES: Our transporter signal. I can't get a lock on him.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Red alert. Mister Paris, take us out of warp.

[Kazon briefing room]
SESKA: It's Voyager.
SURAT: Well, Culluh, what are you waiting for? Use the command codes to disable them.
CULLUH: Bridge, this is First Maje Culluh. Lock weapons onto the Federation ship and fire.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, evasive pattern Delta four. Mister Tuvok, return fire.
TUVOK: Firing phasers.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Torres. Can you transport Chakotay?

[Transporter room]
TORRES: I'm matching the pattern buffer frequency to the Kazon dampening field.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Make it fast.
TORRES: I've got a lock. Initiating transport.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Do you have him, B'Elanna?

[Transporter room]
TORRES: I had him for a second, but they've remodulated the dampening field.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Can you compensate?
TORRES: I'm trying, but I need more time.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We'll try to hold them off, but we don't have long. Mister Tuvok, phasers to maximum. Let's give them a little distraction.

[Kazon briefing room]
SURAT: Why are you allowing them to continue firing?
CULLUH: It's taking longer than I thought to interface with their systems. You must order your ships to provide cover.
SURAT: I hope you know what you're doing.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The other Kazon vessels have opened fire.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, evasive pattern omega two.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Torres. You're going to have to hurry it up down there.

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY (voiceover): We can't hold them off much longer.
TORRES: I'm doing the best I can.

[Kazon briefing room]
SURAT: We're losing patience, Culluh.
CULLUH: Where are you going?
SESKA: To the bridge. I might have better luck interfacing with Voyager's systems from there.
CULLUH: I'll go with you.
SURAT: You'll stay right here.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Aft shields down to twenty three percent, Captain.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Torres. Can you transport Chakotay out or not?

[Transporter room]
TORRES: They've put the dampening field on some kind of randomly fluctuating modulation. It'll take me at least an hour to match the phase variances.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Shields to sixteen percent. Captain, we must retreat.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant, just how localized is that dampening field?
TORRES (voiceover): A little more than

[Transporter room]
TORRES: Two meters in diameter. Just enough to isolate Chakotay. Why?

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I think I've got an idea.

[Kazon briefing room]
SURAT: I don't think you ever had those command codes. I think you're a liar!
CULLUH: What does it matter? If we work together, we don't need the command codes to beat them.
SURAT: You're right. We can beat them. But we're going to do it without you. We're taking your ship.

[Transporter room]
TUVOK: Please stay where you are. You will find that our transporters have rendered your weapons useless.
SURAT: I will make you very sorry for this, Culluh.
TUVOK: Here are the terms, gentlemen. The safe return of our First Officer and shuttlecraft in exchange for your freedom. I presume you will find that an acceptable arrangement. Captain's log, stardate 49211.5. Now that Commander Chakotay has made a full recovery, I'm faced with the difficult task of responding to his failure to follow procedure.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Just tell me one thing. What were you thinking?
CHAKOTAY: About keeping our technology out of Kazon hands. I thought if I did it on my own, I could keep the rest of the crew out of danger.
JANEWAY: That may be a very noble sentiment, but it wasn't your decision to make. Oh, Chakotay. We've spent the last ten months together on this ship. I thought we had an understanding. Why did you choose to ignore procedure?
CHAKOTAY: Seska was my problem, a problem I felt it was my duty to solve.
JANEWAY: So you had a personal score to settle.
CHAKOTAY: I thought I was doing the right thing.
JANEWAY: Really? Tell me this. How do you expect me to keep order when the First Officer takes it upon himself to run off like some cowboy because he decides it's a good idea? What you did was commendable. The way you did it was not. You set a terrible example. And on a personal level, you've made my job more difficult.
CHAKOTAY: If that's so, I regret it.
JANEWAY: I'm putting you on report, in case that means anything anymore.
CHAKOTAY: It means something to me, Captain. It means I've let you down, and for that I'm truly sorry.
TUVOK (voiceover): Bridge to Ready room.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK (voiceover): I think you and Commander Chakotay should come in here.
JANEWAY: On our way.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I have located an automated message beacon, Captain.
JANEWAY: Another one?
TUVOK: It is a message to Commander Chakotay from Seska.
JANEWAY: Would you like Mister Kim to put it through to your office?
CHAKOTAY: No. I think I've spent enough time alone with Seska.
JANEWAY: Very well. Put it on screen.
SESKA: Hello, Chakotay. Congratulations on your victory. I look forward to our next meeting. Oh, and there's something you should know. While you were unconscious, I took the liberty of extracting a sample of your DNA. I impregnated myself with it. So, I guess more congratulations are in order. You're going to be a father.

[Market place]
JANEWAY: We need this completely filled. We don't have time to haggle over price.
NEELIX: Understood.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Voy
GUARD: Get up.
CAYLEM: Get away from her!

[Engineering]
KIM: Commander, any word on that tellerium?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. How bad is it?
KIM: The anti-matter reaction rate is down to twelve percent. If it drops below nine, the plasma injectors will lock up and we'll never be able to re-initialize the nacelles.
CHAKOTAY: Options?
KIM: If we're going to reduce our power demands even further, we're going to have to drop the shields.
CHAKOTAY: I don't want to leave the ship defenseless this close to a hostile planet.
KIM: All other systems are already offline. Life support is at minimal. You asked for options? That's our last one.
CHAKOTAY: All right, power down the shields.
KIM: That helped. It's only a matter of time. There's nothing more we can do without the tellerium.
NEELIX (voiceover): Neelix to Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, Neelix.
NEELIX (voiceover): The rest of the away team is gone, Commander. They've been taken by the Mokra. What do you want me to do?
CHAKOTAY: Did you get the tellerium?
NEELIX (voiceover): Yes, I have it.
CHAKOTAY: Then we need you here. Prepare to beam directly to Engineering.
KIM: Re-routing emergency power to Transporter room two and energizing.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to away team. Captain, can you hear me?
KIM: Unlock the control conduit.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, Torres, please respond.
KIM: Keep an eye on the flow rate.
CREWMAN: Yes, sir. Rate's holding steady.
KIM: Reaction rate has stabilized at thirteen percent. Up to fifteen, eighteen.
NEELIX: It worked then. We're all right.
KIM: Maybe. Once the rate is up to normal, we'll try getting the warp drive back online. Then we'll see if there was any damage.
CHAKOTAY: Begin rerouting power back to all key systems. What happened down there?
NEELIX: I don't know exactly. I went in the shop, completed the trade, then I heard weapons fire on the street. By the time I got out there the Captain and the others were gone.
CHAKOTAY: Are you sure it was the Mokra?
NEELIX: I spoke to witnesses on the street. They said it was quite a fight.
CHAKOTAY: Any idea how the Mokra knew you were down there?
NEELIX: Someone must have told them we were coming. The Mokra have informants everywhere.
CHAKOTAY: Could your contact be one of them?
NEELIX: I don't think I would have made it back here with the tellerium if he had been. Besides, he's involved with the Alsaurian resistance movement. He would never help the Mokra.
CHAKOTAY: They've probably got the resistance movement under surveillance.
KIM: Commander, I think we're ready to give the engines a try. I'm opening the plasma injectors. Warp engines are back online. All systems normal.
CHAKOTAY: Good work, Mister Kim. Mister Neelix, you're with me. I think it's time we contacted the Mokra.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Mister Paris, set a new course. Bring us out from behind the moon and establish a standard orbit around the planet. Slowly. We don't want to look aggressive.
PARIS: Yes, sir.
CHAKOTAY: What kind of response can we expect when they see us?
NEELIX: The Mokra are paranoid and hostile. They have no use for diplomacy. I wouldn't be surprised if they started shooting at us immediately.
PARIS: We'll be in full view of the planet in a few seconds. Orbital sensor net has picked us up. They're scanning the ship. We're being hailed.
CHAKOTAY: On screen.
AUGRIS (screen): I am third magistrate Augris of the Mokra Order.
CHAKOTAY: Commander Chakotay of the Federation starship Voyager.
AUGRIS (screen): May I assume you're seeking permission to conduct business with us?
CHAKOTAY: No. Some of my crewmembers have already been to the surface. We've lost contact with them.
AUGRIS (screen): I see. You must have been unaware of our regulations. I'll transfer a complete copy for future reference.
CHAKOTAY: I have reason to believe they're being detained.
AUGRIS (screen): Detained? That's possible. I'll look into it for you. I'll contact you shortly.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you.
NEELIX: He's not like any Mokra I've ever met. I can't believe he'll really help us.
CHAKOTAY: If there's any chance for a diplomatic solution, we have to pursue it. In the meantime, I want continuous scans of the surface. Standard search pattern.

[Detention cell]
TUVOK: I advise caution.
TORRES: There's a control circuit there. I can see it. If only we knew that Neelix made it back to the ship with the tellerium, then at least this would be worth it.
TUVOK: I regret I have no such reassurance to offer you.
TORRES: We don't even know what happened to the Captain. She might have been killed out there on the street.
TUVOK: That is possible. It is also possible that she is safely returned to Voyager. We have insufficient evidence to dismiss either conclusion.
TORRES: I guess that's the Vulcan way of telling me to hope for the best.

[Caylem's home]
CAYLEM: Look who's awake. Just rest. You must be thirsty. Maybe hungry for a little something? What shall I make? What can I make? What? What?
JANEWAY: Where am I?
CAYLEM: Oh, it hasn't been that long. I wish I had some. This will do. Drink.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
CAYLEM: I'll fix you some soup. Now, just lie down.
JANEWAY: You're very kind but I have
CAYLEM: You're safe now.
JANEWAY: I really can't
CAYLEM: Shush. Don't worry. Everything's all right now. My little girl is home.
JANEWAY: I'm very grateful for everything you've done for me.
CAYLEM: But you know there's nothing I wouldn't do for my sweet Ralkana.
JANEWAY: My name is Kathryn Janeway.
CAYLEM: Kathryn? That's an unusual name. Very pretty. I like it.
JANEWAY: I am a starship Captain. It is very important that I contact my ship.
CAYLEM: Wonderful. Captain Kathryn of a glorious starship. Then what happens? Go on, I'm listening. I love your stories.
JANEWAY: It's not a story, it's a request. May I use your communications equipment?
CAYLEM: Communications. Oh, we're not supposed to have any of that. The Mokra don't allow it.
JANEWAY: They can't have control of everything. Surely there's someone who has an illegal transmitter.
CAYLEM: I know what you'd like. Some talsa root soup.
JANEWAY: Can you at least tell me what happened to the other people I was with on the street.
CAYLEM: You really should be more careful out there. Those Mokra will pick a fight for no reason. I don't want you getting hurt again. But I saw the way you handled that ugly one. I couldn't have done any better. I was so proud of you, Ralkana.
JANEWAY: My two friends. Did the Mokra take them?
CAYLEM: I'm afraid so.
JANEWAY: Where would they have been taken. A detention center?
CAYLEM: The prison.
JANEWAY: All right. How do I get there?
CAYLEM: The soup. I'm forgetting the soup.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your hospitality, but I can't stay here. I've got to get to that prison.
CAYLEM: You're right. The time has come. Now that we're together again, we can't wait another day. My beautiful and brave girl. The Mokra won't stand a chance against us.
JANEWAY: You're very kind to offer, but I didn't mean we'd be going together.
CAYLEM: You must eat and rest to get your strength back. We'll leave soon enough. We don't want to keep her waiting any longer than we have to.
JANEWAY: Keep who waiting?
CAYLEM: She must miss you so terribly. It's hard to bear thinking of her alone in that dark cell. It's been difficult for all of us. Don't worry, we'll get her out. You'll see your mother again.

[Briefing room]
AUGRIS: Our world has come under attack before. You can understand our concern at finding strangers who arrive secretly from a hidden ship.
CHAKOTAY: I assure you we have no hostile intentions.
AUGRIS: I believe you, but some of my colleagues are cautious about dealing with disreputable ships.
NEELIX: What does that mean?
AUGRIS: It seems you've been making more enemies than friends since you arrived from the Alpha quadrant, is it? Some think even that story is a lie.
CHAKOTAY: But not you.
AUGRIS: Of course not. I'm here to help.
CHAKOTAY: Then I'd like to talk to my crewmembers.
AUGRIS: I'm afraid that will be difficult in the current climate of mistrust. Perhaps if you could tell us more about what brought you here, who you've been dealing with.
CHAKOTAY: I'll consider that, after I talk to my crewmembers.
AUGRIS: You're not making it very easy for me to help you. Let me see what I can arrange. It may take some time. Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Talk to your contacts again. I want an alternative to sitting here waiting for him to get back to us.

[Detention cell]
TUVOK: Your question is based on a faulty assumption. I cannot answer it.
AUGRIS: You can't deny being in contact with the Resistance.
TUVOK: I deny that we are intending to supply them with weapons.
AUGRIS: These lies are useless. We know that you are helping the subversives. I want names.
TUVOK: I have none to give you.
TORRES: We told you already. We don't know anything about the Resistance.
AUGRIS: I've heard that many times, from many people. Take him.
TUVOK: Lieutenant, stop! That will not help either of us.
AUGRIS: He's right.

[Caylem's home]
JANEWAY: I see soldiers out there. What's happening?
CAYLEM: They're everywhere, searching the whole area.
JANEWAY: I don't want to cause trouble for you. I'll go as soon as it's dark.
CAYLEM: You've always been a troublemaker, ever since you could walk. I've never seen such a wilful child, but that's what I love most about you. Your spirit. Now, don't worry. When they come through here, we'll be gone already. Your mother will want some of her things. Ah, a pretty dress to wear.
JANEWAY: They're only looking for me. You don't have to get any more involved that you already are.
CAYLEM: Why, if my precious girl is involved, then I am involved too.
CAYLEM: Do you remember this? She always used to wear it on special occasions. I think today would count as one. You know what I think she would like even more is to see you wear it.
JANEWAY: I couldn't possibly take it.
CAYLEM: Be careful. This won't heal if you move around too much.
JANEWAY: If you want to help, tell me about that prison. What kind of security do they have? Are there forcefields, detection grids, physical barriers?
CAYLEM: Yes. All of it.
JANEWAY: What about guards?
CAYLEM: Lots of guards. The Mokra make a big show of it, always bragging about how no one has ever escaped.
JANEWAY: Listen to me. I can't bring you to the prison with me. It's too dangerous.
CAYLEM: I'm not afraid.
JANEWAY: And that could get both of us killed. You have to stay here.
CAYLEM: If I stay here I can't bring the letters.
JANEWAY: Letters? To the prison?
CAYLEM: Letters. Don't you remember how we used to write to her together? Here they are. I still write them every week since she's been gone. I've always known that one day I'd be able to give them to her. I've never forgotten.
JANEWAY: These are all to your wife? How long has it been?
CAYLEM: My last letter. My last letter's not, it's not here. Oh. I wrote it three days ago, but it's not. I can't let her think I've stopped writing, that I gave up hope only days before. I'll write it again. My hand, my hand shakes sometimes. You write it so it looks nice.
JANEWAY: I'm very sorry. I have to go before the soldiers come.
CAYLEM: The last one. The last one was about. My memory isn't very good. Oh, I remember. I went walking in the morning. It was very cold. Tell her I wore my sweater. She worries about that sort of thing, and, and I what? And I saw that they had torn down that old building where you and the other children used to play. And tell her it rained for two and a half days. I don't know if she can see the sky where they're keeping her. And there was more. There was something about a friend. I, why can't I remember? I wanted to tell her!
JANEWAY: It's all right. She'll understand.
CAYLEM: Yes. Yes, you're right. She will. Please let me come with you.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, that's not possible.
GUARD (voiceover): Check this one here.
JANEWAY: Is there another way out?
CAYLEM: There.
GUARD (voiceover): Open up there! Open the door, open the door now! Break it down!

[Market place]
CAYLEM: This is a waste of time. We don't need him anyway.
JANEWAY: I need him. If he's a member of the Resistance he may be able to help me contact my ship.
CAYLEM: Monster!
CAYLEM: He's the one. He took your mother. We have to
JANEWAY: They want a fight. Don't give them one.
MAN (voiceover): I've done nothing. I've done nothing. Please. Please.
AUGRIS: You look like a helpful citizen, so tell me. You might have seen some strangers who were in the market place earlier today?
MAN: No, sir. No, sir, I've seen no one. Please.
AUGRIS: You! I'm looking for someone. A woman.
DAROD: I haven't seen any woman.
AUGRIS: There are two right over here. You see them, don't you?
DAROD: Yes.
AUGRIS: Maybe we should discuss this elsewhere.
JANEWAY: Caylem!
CAYLEM: Good morning! I seem to have lost my hat. It's about this big.
CAYLEM: Have you seen my hat?
AUGRIS: Run along, old man.
CAYLEM: Without my hat?
AUGRIS: There you go.
CAYLEM: It's all right now. They've gone.

[Bridge]
NEELIX: The prison is in the north east corner of the city. My sources tell me it's surrounded by metaphasic shields.
CHAKOTAY: Can you find a way to beam through them? The Mokra aren't familiar with transporter technology.
KIM: There is a periodic fluctuation in the shield's energy pattern. I'm working on a way to take advantage of it.
NEELIX: There's only one problem with that. If the Mokra detect us breaking through their shields, we'll be surrounded by soldiers in seconds.
PARIS: If we could beam in close enough to where the away team is being held, we might be able to get in and out of there before the Mokra had a chance to react.
KIM: We can't locate the away team from here. The detention level is subterranean and the rock is too dense for our sensors to penetrate. You'll have to look for them after you beam into the prison.
CHAKOTAY: Too dangerous. We can't risk beaming in. We have to find another way that the Mokra won't detect. Sounds like a challenge for you, Mister Kim.

[Market place]
DAROD: You'd be welcome to use our transmitter if we still had one. The Mokra confiscated it this morning.
JANEWAY: Then I'll have to find my crew members myself. I know two of them were arrested. What about Neelix?
DAROD: He stayed inside with me then got transported up to your ship.
JANEWAY: Good. What can you tell me about the prison.
CAYLEM: I know about the prison.
JANEWAY: We need all the information we can get. I have to reach my crew.
DAROD: Don't you think there are people in there I'd like to get out? Any sane person would tell you it's impossible.
CAYLEM: Spoken like a coward.
DAROD: I've heard about you, old man. You're the coward.
JANEWAY: Enough.
DAROD: What are you doing with this lunatic? Has he been telling you stories of his brave deeds? They're just fantasies. Taking him along on this rescue mission of yours is just suicide.
JANEWAY: He's already saved me from the Mokra once, and he saved you from those soldiers today.
DAROD: All right, stay with him. Go up to the prison. Get yourself killed.
JANEWAY: I won't get killed if you tell me what you know.
DAROD: There are access tunnels on the north side. They'll get you in a little closer, but they're guarded.
JANEWAY: I'll need weapons.
DAROD: They're not free.
JANEWAY: I don't have anything to trade.
DAROD: That's worth some weapons.
JANEWAY: I can't.
CAYLEM: Yes, you can. If it'll help to bring her back to us.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
DAROD: I can have someone meet you on the street in three hours to make the trade. He'll be wearing a blue vest. Watch for him.
JANEWAY: We will. Thank you.
DAROD: I'd wish you luck, but what you'll need is a miracle.
JANEWAY: He's more than three hours late. We have to consider the possibility that he's been arrested.
CAYLEM: You mustn't believe what he told you about me.
JANEWAY: I don't believe it. You're not a coward.
CAYLEM: I had to keep my little girl safe. It was just too dangerous to get involved. Can you understand? Your mother wouldn't listen. She wanted to fight. She was always so passionate about what she believed in. She didn't care about the risk.
JANEWAY: You were proud of her.
CAYLEM: I didn't want to loose her. I didn't want you to grow up without a mother. I tried so hard to change her mind, and finally she changed mine. She convinced me to go with her. I said I would meet her by the river. She was leading a raid against a Mokra supply center. I said I would meet her, but I didn't. I couldn't. I was too afraid. She was still waiting for me when they arrested her. I could never tell you about this. I knew you would hate me. I couldn't bear that. Please, Ralkana, if you can ever forgive me.
MAN (voiceover): All right, I'll be right there.
CAYLEM: What is it?
JANEWAY: A blue vest.
CAYLEM: Then it's time to go.
CAYLEM: What happened?
JANEWAY: He was wearing military boots, like the Mokra. It was a trap.
CAYLEM: A trap. And you saw it, my clever girl. We'll be all right. We have each other. That's we'll need.
JANEWAY: It's not that simple. We can't just walk into the prison without weapons.
JANEWAY: Maybe we'll have to try a different strategy.

[Detention cell]
AUGRIS: We don't have to ask your friend any more questions, if you give us the answers.
TORRES: I told you I don't.
TORRES: I'm sorry. I guess I always assumed that Vulcans didn't feel pain like the rest of us. That you were able to block it out somehow. Until I heard. Was that you I heard?
TUVOK: Vulcans are capable of suppressing certain levels of physical pain. Beyond that we must simply endure the experience.
TORRES: How can you say that so calmly? You must feel some anger at what they did to you, some desire to fight back.
TUVOK: Under the circumstances, physical resistance is ineffective. We are fighting back by refusing to give them any information.
GUARD (voiceover): Get down there.

[Tunnels]
GUARD: Three more hours. There's nothing going on around here. Wake me if the Lieutenant shows up, will you?
GUARD: You girls aren't supposed to come down here any more.
JANEWAY: Do you want me to leave?
GUARD: I didn't say that.
JANEWAY: Then I won't.
GUARD: If my Lieutenant saw you here I'd be in trouble.
JANEWAY: Nobody will see us back here. It's dark. Private.
CAYLEM: I like the strategy.
CAYLEM: We're ready to go.
JANEWAY: No, you're not coming with me.
CAYLEM: Of course I am. We settled this. You told that man, Darod, how I saved you from the Mokra!
JANEWAY: You did save me. Now I'm returning the favor.
JANEWAY: I promise I'll try to find your wife.
CAYLEM: Wait! Ralkana! No!

[Bridge]
KIM: I've been studying their orbital sensor net. It surrounds the entire planet. This is the most sophisticated system I've ever seen. It monitors everything we do. There's no way of disabling it from orbit.
CHAKOTAY: So much for a surprise attack.
KIM: We may still be able to surprise them, even if they do see us coming. We can modify the main deflector to send out dozens of radion beams which should penetrate the prison shields. One of them will carry our transporter signal but the sensor net won't be able to distinguish which one, so the Mokra won't know the exact location we're beaming to.
CHAKOTAY: And they won't know where to concentrate their defenses.
KIM: That's the best head start I can give you.
CHAKOTAY: Then it'll have to do. How long will it take to modify the deflector?
KIM: I can do it right now.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Paris. Is the rescue team ready?
PARIS (voiceover): Standing by.
CHAKOTAY: Prepare for transport.
KIM: Deflector ready, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Initiate the radion beams.
KIM: Sending out the first volley. It's working. They're getting through the shields.
CHAKOTAY: Begin the transport.
KIM: Transporter room two, synchronize your confinement beams to That came from the surface.
CHAKOTAY: Maximum shields. Damage report.
KIM: Shields at ninety percent. It's a precision hit right to the source of the beams. Main deflector is now offline. We're being hailed from the surface.
CHAKOTAY: On screen.
AUGRIS (screen): Your attempt to penetrate our defenses is a hostile act against the Mokra Order. There are now eighty five phased ion cannons targeted at your ship. If you don't withdraw from Mokra space in two minutes, we will open fire.
KIM: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Give me some good news, Mister Kim.
KIM: There's a disruption in the shields around the prison.
CHAKOTAY: That qualifies. Good work.
KIM: Wish I could take credit for it, but it's coming from inside the prison.
CHAKOTAY: Can we get through?
KIM: Yes, but the Mokra will detect our transport.
PARIS: Sounds like they have other things to worry about right now. That disruption might not be accidental. Someone might be trying to get out.
CHAKOTAY: That's a big assumption.
PARIS: Even if our people didn't cause the problem, you know they'd take advantage of it. This is our best chance to find them.
CHAKOTAY: In about thirty seconds the Mokra are going to open fire. I don't know how long we're going to be able to wait for you.
PARIS: Understood.

[Prison complex]
JANEWAY: Darod. I'm looking for my people.
DAROD: Back this way. I'll show you.
JANEWAY: Don't move!
CAYLEM: There you are.
JANEWAY: What are you doing here?
CAYLEM: I would do everything in my power to protect my only child.

[Bridge]
KIM: There's a phased ion charge coming at us from the planet.
CHAKOTAY: Full power to the shields.
KIM: Shields at sixty percent. Minor damage on deck fourteen. They're firing again.
CHAKOTAY: Modulate the shield frequencies. Try to throw off their sensors.
KIM: No effect. Direct hit to the port nacelle.
CHAKOTAY: Redirect all warp power to the shields.
KIM: Two more coming in.

[Prison complex]
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: We've got to get you back to the ship. You're hurt.
CAYLEM: Ralkana, the other cells are this way. We must find your mother.
JANEWAY: Follow this passageway until it dead ends, then you'll see a smaller passageway.
TORRES: Captain, what are you doing?
JANEWAY: There's one more person I have to find.
DAROD: Guards!
AUGRIS: After all that time I spent looking for you, all I had to do was wait here.

[Bridge]
KIM: Shields down to twenty three percent.
CHAKOTAY: We've got to get out of their weapons range. Scan one more time for the away team.
KIM: There's no sign of them.
CHAKOTAY: Prepare to break orbit.
KIM: Wait! Set a course bearing two one nine mark four seven.
CHAKOTAY: Where are you taking us, Mister Kim?
KIM: There's a large magnetic storm over the northern magnetic pole. It's giving our sensors some trouble, it should do same for theirs.
CHAKOTAY: A blind spot?
KIM: Exactly. If we maintain our position directly above the storm, their sensor net may not be able to keep an accurate lock on our position.
CHAKOTAY: How long do you thing this'll work.
KIM: The storm's already dissipating. A few more minutes?
CHAKOTAY: I'll take every second I can get.

[Prison complex]
AUGRIS: I must say I'm impressed, Caylem. You never made it this far before. Every so often he goes on one of his missions to rescue his wife. She's been dead for twelve years.
CAYLEM: Lies! Lies! Lies!
AUGRIS: Sometimes he gets all the way up to the front gate. We send him on his way and allow him to serve as a reminder of just how futile it is to challenge us. I thought you'd learnt that lesson when you lost your daughter. She made it as far as the tunnels before she was shot.
CAYLEM: No.
AUGRIS: So much tragedy for one man to bear. And now your foolishness has condemned another innocent woman. Take the others back for questioning. I'll interrogate this one myself.
CAYLEM: No! I won't let you hurt her!
JANEWAY: Caylem!
CAYLEM: Ralkana? He said you'd been shot.
JANEWAY: He was lying to you, Father. I'm all right.
CAYLEM: And your mother?
JANEWAY: She's fine. She was so happy to get your letters. She wanted me to tell you something. She forgives you. We both do.
CAYLEM: My sweet girl.
PARIS: Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm coming.
DAROD: No one will forget what he did here today. I'll make sure of that.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to transporter room two. Do we have them?
JANEWAY (voiceover): We're all back, Commander. Take us out of here.
CHAKOTAY: Gladly. Lieutenant, you heard her.

[Ready room]
KIM: The warp drive is functioning normally and we'll have the main deflector back online tomorrow.
JANEWAY: Yes. Thank you, Mister Kim.
KIM: Captain, are you all right?
JANEWAY: I'm fine.

[Transporter Room]
TORRES: It's extraordinary.
TUVOK: I must remind you that it is also a potential security risk.
TORRES: It's losing power. I'd like to move it to Engineering to see if I can repair it before it drains completely.
TUVOK: I suggest we allow the power to drain. We should take the opportunity to examine it while it is idle. Then we can decide if it is wise to repair it.
TORRES: Captain, this thing has a completely unfamiliar power source. Once it stops working it's very possible I won't be able to get it going again, and we'll have lost an opportunity to study a new technology.
JANEWAY: This is a ship of exploration, Mister Tuvok.

[Engineering]
TORRES: The power's surging. If we can't find a way to stabilize it, we're going to lose it.
KIM: What about an interface with an EPS power conduit?
TORRES: Well, the energy signatures are incompatible, but it might buy us some time. Okay, let's give it a try. Two second burst, five percent maximum output. On my mark. Now. We're losing it.
KIM: Maybe we're overloading it's systems.
TORRES: Let's try a longer burst at lower power.
KIM: Got it. Five seconds at three percent, on your mark.
TORRES: Now. I think it's working. EPS flow is holding steady. EM field leakage is minimal.
KIM: We'll have to watch the pressure on the connectors.
TORRES: Let's try to keep it below eighty five percent.
KIM: Flux capacitance is spiking intermittently, but I don't think that's a problem.
TORRES: Let's reinforce the power conduit coupling just to be on the safe side.
TORRES: It's suffered a lot of damage, but I think the EPS charge will keep it running for at least eighteen hours.
KIM: It's not a cyborg. It's completely robotic. No organic components of any kind.
TORRES: This looks like some kind of programming center.
KIM: But I'm not detecting any pathways for transmitting information.
TORRES: It's got arms, legs, we saw it move it's head. It's clearly designed to perform motor functions. So where did those commands come from?
KIM: Maybe it needs to interface with a outside source.
TORRES: Speaking of sources, this energy module seems to be what powers the entire mechanism. It isn't designed to run on EPS energy, it runs on some kind of super-conducting plasma. If we keep charging it, we may end up destroying it.
TORRES: It's trying to communicate.
KIM: We don't know that. It may just be some kind of recording.
3947: One one one one one. Pralor Pralor. One one. Pralor Pralor Pralor Pralor.
TORRES: What are you trying to say? What's Pralor? If you can hear me, try to move, try to move your arm.
KIM: B'Elanna, we don't even know if it can see you, much less understand a word you're saying.
TORRES: We've got to figure out a way to fix it.
KIM: We've been trying for hours. We need a break. The EPS charge should hold till morning.
TORRES: You go ahead. I could use some time alone to think.
KIM: If you're staying, I'm staying.
TORRES: Get some rest, Harry.
KIM: You may think you're tougher than everybody else, B'Elanna Torres, but I can go without sleep just as long as you can.
TORRES: Don't make me laugh, Starfleet. And don't make me pull rank on you either.
KIM: If you insist. But let me know if you come up with anything, Lieutenant. Chief Engineers log, supplemental. I've tried thirteen different methods of reinitializing the robot's power source and I'm still having no luck, so I've decided to go to the mess hall to recharge my own declining energy reserves.

[Mess hall]
TORRES: Neelix, I need another pot of coffee.
NEELIX: Even though breakfast isn't officially served for another hour and a half, I'd be happy to pour you a glass of Traggle nectar. I will even fix you my special Jibalian seven spice omelet.
TORRES: Just coffee.
NEELIX: I'm sorry, B'Elanna, but two pots of Landras blend is the absolute limit.
TORRES: You're cutting me off? Oh, I guess you're right. It was starting to taste almost palatable.
NEELIX: Still no idea how to revive our mechanized guest.
TORRES: All I've been able to do is postpone the inevitable. The constant power depletion is like a bleeding artery, and I haven't got a tourniquet.
NEELIX: I remember when I was trying to perfect the recipe for my Jibalian omelet. I tried everything, a little more spith basil, a little less prishic, but I couldn't get it right. Finally I fell asleep from exhaustion right there at the counter. And then, in a dream, it came to me. I was using six spices, but the omelet needed seven.
TORRES: Let me guess. Leola root.
NEELIX: Nimian sea salt, actually.
TORRES: Salt?
NEELIX: Yes, salt, the most common spice in the galaxy. But I was too tired, so I couldn't see it.
TORRES: That is a very interesting story, Neelix. Now how about some more coffee.
NEELIX: To bed. I said, to bed.
TORRES: I'm going. I'm going.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Anybody home? What's that? You think I should go to bed too? Well, I guess I'm outnumbered.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: Computer, activate Emergency Medical Holographic Program.
EMH: Please state the nature. If there has been a change in the official dress code I certainly wish someone would have informed me.
TORRES: This is what I sleep in. I didn't have time to change.
EMH: I see. May I assume your haste is an indication that you have a medical problem of some kind.
TORRES: An engineering problem actually, but I thought you might have some insight.
EMH: Hmm. I shouldn't have to remind you, I'm a doctor
TORRES: Not an engineer, right, but this isn't a typical engineering problem. I've been working on trying to repair a robot.
EMH: Ah yes, the mechanical man. Kes told me about it. Fascinating.
TORRES: He's about to die.
EMH: Die?
TORRES: Die, stop functioning, whatever, unless I can figure out a way to sustain his main energy source.
EMH: What kind of energy source are we talking about?
TORRES: It's some sort of chromo-dynamic module powered by a tripolymer plasma, but the plasma is contaminated. It's decaying.
EMH: Hmm. Like diseased blood.
TORRES: Right. It can't retain enough energy to keep the module running.
EMH: Have you considered a transfusion?
TORRES: You mean replacing the plasma itself? Well, that was one of my first ideas, but where do I get my hands on a polymer plasma composed of elements I didn't even know existed twenty four hours ago?
EMH: Aren't Voyager's engines powered by warp plasma?
TORRES: It's, it's a very different substance. Too highly charged. It would burn out the robot's systems in seconds. It would be like trying to give a Bolian a blood transfusion from a Vulcan.
EMH: Which ordinarily would kill the unfortunate Bolian, but there have been instances when artificial blood was unavailable and existing blood cells were genetically altered for inter-species transfusions.
TORRES: It's a good idea, but warp plasma radiates at too high a frequency to alter electrochemically. Unless.
EMH: Go on.
TORRES: I could modify a series of anodyne relays, attach them directly to the robots power module. They could act as a sort of regulator to make the warp plasma compatible with the robot's energy matrix.
EMH: That's exactly what I was going to suggest.

[Engineering]
TORRES: That's the last of the relays.
KIM: Plasma injector is sealed.
JANEWAY: This is your show, Lieutenant. Whenever you're ready.
TORRES: Activating the relays. All right, Harry, start the infusion. Twenty percent nominal flow.
KIM: Initiating plasma flow.
TORRES: Energy levels are up fourteen percent.
JANEWAY: The relays are holding.
TORRES: Harry, give it a little more juice.
KIM: Got it. I'm taking it to thirty percent. Thirty five percent.
TORRES: Wait, the energy levels are rising too fast. We're going to burn out it's systems.
KIM: But it needs more plasma.
JANEWAY: What about increasing the capacitance of the relays?
TORRES: Let's give it a try. It's stabilizing. Hold the flow right there. Let's see what happens. The plasma is circulating. The programming center is activated. I think we may have done it.
3947: Please identify yourself.
TORRES: I'm Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres of the Federation Starship Voyager.
3947: I'm automated unit 3947. Thank you for reactivating me, Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres. Chief Engineer's log, supplemental. the robot's power module is continuing to function normally using plasma from our warp engines. Repairing it's systems has taught me more about robotics than I ever could have learnt at Starfleet Academy.

[Engineering]
TORRES: I think we're past the critical stage.
3947: I concur. According to my self-diagnostic systems Automated Personnel Unit 3947 is currently functioning at sixty eight percent of peak operating capabilities.
TORRES: Automated Personnel Unit 3947 is an extremely well designed machine.
3947: Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres is an extremely proficient humanoid.
TORRES: So how did you end up floating in space so badly damaged?
3947: I was operating an asteroid mining pod. It exploded.
TORRES: Do you know what caused the explosion?
3947: I am unable to access that information. My memory cells are not yet operating at optimal efficiency.
TORRES: Do you remember where you come from?
3947: I am stationed aboard a Pralor vessel.
TORRES: Well, we'll do our best to find your ship and return you to your people.
3947: Thank you.
TORRES: I'm hoping that the memory loss is only temporary. Once the new plasma has the chance to fully integrate into your systems, I think you'll be pretty close to optimal.
3947: New plasma?
TORRES: Yes, I adapted your module to accept our warp plasma as an energy source.
3947: You repaired my power module. Are you a Builder?
TORRES: A builder? Well, I guess you could say that. I'm an engineer. I'm responsible for repairing and maintaining all the systems on the ship.
3947: Only the Builders were capable of constructing or repairing power modules.
TORRES: The Builders are the people who created you?
3947: Yes.
TORRES: And they're humanoids like me?
3947: Yes, like Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres. You could create a new power module.
TORRES: You don't need a new module. The one I just fixed will work fine now.
3947: The new power module would not be for me. It would be a prototype for the construction of additional automated units.
TORRES: Can't the Builders make additional units?
3947: The Builders no longer exist.

[Ready room]
TORRES: Apparently thousands of them were built as service modules, but the race who created them, these Builders, were killed off decades ago in a war.
JANEWAY: Leaving the automated units to fend for themselves.
TORRES: Now they're wearing out, breaking down. They've learnt to make repairs to themselves, some pretty complex, but the construction of a power module, the device that sustains them, is beyond their grasp. It's an incredible challenge, Captain, but with enough time to study their systems, I might be able to do it.
JANEWAY: I don't doubt your abilities, B'Elanna, but helping them reproduce is a clear violation of the Prime Directive.
TORRES: They've expressed a desire to procreate. That's basic to any life form.
JANEWAY: I'm not saying they don't have the same rights as any organic species. That's not the issue here.
TORRES: Are you sure? Suppose they were organic but they had become sterile, and we had a treatment that would enable them to start reproducing again. Would you withhold that treatment?
JANEWAY: Maybe. I'd have to know more about the circumstances. But we're not talking about treating a disorder here, are we?
TORRES: What's the difference?
JANEWAY: Unlike a species whose become sterile, the robots never had the ability to reproduce. What you're talking about is giving them new abilities, which is the equivalent of altering their genetic structure.
TORRES: To correct a flaw.
JANEWAY: You can't call it a flaw. This is the way they were designed.
TORRES: I'm trying to save them from extinction.
JANEWAY: Unfortunately extinction is often the natural end of evolution.
TORRES: So you're just willing to let their entire society die off.
JANEWAY: We don't know that's going to happen. If they're adaptable, as you say, and capable of educating themselves, they might very well learn to build a power module themselves some day.
TORRES: Some day could be too late. There are only a few hundred of them left.
JANEWAY: I feel for the robot's plight, but what you are proposing is exactly the kind of tampering the Prime Directive prohibits. We know almost nothing about these creatures or the race that built them. What would be the consequences of increasing their population, both to their own civilization and others in this quadrant? Who are we to swoop in, play God and then continue on our way without the slightest consideration of the long term effects of our actions?
TORRES: Captain!
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, I share your scientific curiosity and I admire your compassion, but the answer is no.

[Engineering]
3947: I do not concur with your Captain's decision.
TORRES: She's following our Prime Directive.
3947: Define Prime Directive.
TORRES: It forbids us to interfere in the natural development of other cultures.
3947: The automated units were not created naturally. We were built. You can help us build more.
TORRES: Captain Janeway doesn't think that's a good idea.
3947: But Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres does.
TORRES: Maybe. I don't know. I'd like to try, but I can't.
3947: Without your help, we will not survive. I thought Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres was a Builder.
TORRES: So did I. We've located your ship. We should be in communications range in about an hour.
3947: Thank you.

[Bridge]
PARIS: The alien vessel is entering visual range, Captain.
JANEWAY: Yellow alert. Slow to one quarter impulse. Put them on screen, Ensign Kim.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Magnify.
TUVOK: We're being scanned, Captain.
JANEWAY: That's all right. Let them take a look. Open a channel.
6263 (screen): Pralor Automated Personnel Unit 6263 requests you identify yourselves.
JANEWAY: I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager.
6263 (screen): What are your intentions, Captain Kathryn Janeway?
JANEWAY: We rescued one of your crewmembers, unit 3947, and we'd like to return him to your ship.
6263 (screen): We'll prepare to receive the unit. Thank you for your assistance.
PARIS: Very polite, these automated units.

[Transporter Room]
TORRES: Captain Janeway gave me permission to give you some extra warp plasma, in case the plasma we infused into your system starts to degrade.
3947: Thank you.
TORRES: And you'll have to remodulate the anodyne relays periodically.
3947: You are repeating instructions you have already given me, B'Elanna.
TORRES: I'm just making sure. Well, I guess this is goodbye.
TORRES: What are you doing?

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, I'm detecting a chromo-dynamic energy discharge in Transporter room two.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Transporter room two. Janeway to Torres.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, someone's initiating a transport. It's Torres and the robot.
JANEWAY: Override.
KIM: I can't block it. The patterns are already in the buffer. They're gone, Captain.
JANEWAY: Transport her back now, Mister Kim.
KIM: I can't get a lock on her.
TUVOK: They have erected some kind of subspace defense field around their vessel. Our targeting scanners cannot penetrate it.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
KIM: They're not responding.
JANEWAY: Open a channel on wideband subspace.
KIM: Channel open.
JANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway. Your abduction of our crewmember is a clear act of aggression. If you do not return her immediately, we will be forced to retaliate. Confirm that they've received the transmission, Mister Kim.
KIM: They heard us all right. They're just not answering.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, power the forward phaser banks.

[Pralor vessel]
TORRES: What the hell is going on here?
3947: This is where you will assist in the creation of the prototype.
TORRES: I told you I can't help you. Now return me to my ship.
3947: That is not possible.
TORRES: Torres to Voyager.
3947: Your communication device has been deactivated. I do not wish to injure you, B'Elanna.
TORRES: I helped you. I reactivated you. Why are you doing this?
3947: We require additional automated units to prevent our extinction.
TORRES: Captain Janeway won't let you get away with this.
3947: It would be inadvisable for your Captain to provoke us.

[Bridge]
KIM: Still no response, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, any luck penetrating their defense field?
TUVOK: Negative.
JANEWAY: Commander, is there any sign that they're preparing to attack?
CHAKOTAY: Their shielding is making it difficult to get clear readings. I can't even tell you what their weapons capabilities are.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, I don't want you to hit their ship, but I do want you to open a hole in their shielding wide enough to transport through.
TUVOK: Understood.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, match the targeting scanners to the coordinates of the phaser fire, and stand by to beam B'Elanna back.
TUVOK: Phasers calibrated.
JANEWAY: Fire.
TUVOK: Their field strength is down to eighty percent.
JANEWAY: That's progress. Fire again.
PARIS: Initiating evasive pattern omega six.
CHAKOTAY: They're firing some kind of quantum resonance charges, Captain.
TUVOK: Our aft shields are down to fifty three percent and dropping.
KIM: Re-routing power to aft shields.
TUVOK: Down to twenty four percent.
PARIS: Switching evasive pattern to theta one.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Tuvok, load torpedo bays one through four and stand by to fire on my order.

[Pralor vessel]
3947: Your Captain has made a tactical error by attacking us. Our weapons systems are substantially superior to yours. Your shields are failing, your weapons pose no threat to us.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Aft shields have been penetrated.
CHAKOTAY: We've got to get out of here.
JANEWAY: Agreed. We'll try to come back for B'Elanna later. Do it, Mister Paris. Warp three.
PARIS: Propulsion systems are offline. We're dead in the water.
TUVOK: Hull breach on deck six.
KIM: Initiating emergency containment field.
TUVOK: Environmental control systems are failing. Oxygen levels on decks three through seven have dropped to critical.
KIM: We've lost artificial gravity on deck eight.
CHAKOTAY: Injury reports from all decks.

[Pralor vessel]
TORRES: You've got to stop this.
3947: Your ship opened fire. We are programmed to defend ourselves.
TORRES: They're helpless. Can't you see that?
3947: Our enemies must be destroyed.
TORRES: We are not your enemies.
3947: You are not my enemy, B'Elanna, but your Captain is, and your crew follows her commands.
TORRES: Captain Janeway backed me when I wanted to reactivate you, over the objections of her Chief Security officer. You wouldn't even be here if it weren't for her. All right, if that's what it will take to stop this, I'll do it. I'll build your damned prototype!

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We're losing life support, Captain.
TUVOK: The robots have powered down their weapon systems.
KIM: They're hailing us, Captain.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TORRES (screen): Captain, is everybody okay?
JANEWAY: We'll be all right. What about you?
TORRES (screen): I've agreed to help them build their prototype.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant.
TORRES (screen): I know how you feel about this, Captain, I don't like it either. But if I don't do it, they'll destroy Voyager. What choice do I have?

[Pralor vessel]
3947: These are all the materials necessary to construct a prototype unit. You will be provided with whatever additional tools and equipment you require. You may access our database and schematic information from this computer terminal, but it will not allow you to interface with any critical systems. While you are on board, you will have no contact with your ship, nor will you leave this room. I will remain here to supervise your work. You may proceed.
TORRES: Proceed. Right. But the question is, where do I proceed from? Let me ask you this. Have any of you ever tried to build a prototype.
3947: We have tried, and failed.
TORRES: What was the problem?
3947: I am unable to explain the failure. We duplicated a power module to exact specifications on several occasions, but in all instances the energy output of the new module was insufficient to operate a unit.
TORRES: And you're sure you reproduced the module exactly?
3947: This is a schematic of a power module from a terminated unit. This one is from a failed prototype. They are identical. There is no reason why one should function while the does not.
6263: Unit 3947, what can you report?
TORRES: Well, let's see. We've been working for about five minutes so I guess we don't have a lot of progress to report.
6263: Our sensors indicate that the humanoid vessel will require approximately one hundred and forty hours to repair. It is necessary for you to complete work on the prototype before that time.
TORRES: Why? We don't seem to be any match for you.
6263: Our tactical subprocessors indicate a seventy nine percent likelihood that rescue will be attempted when sufficient repairs are completed. At optimal efficiency your engines are more powerful than ours.
3947: It is also possible that these humanoids will not make decisions based on tactical probabilities. Their cognitive process is unpredictable.
6263: We will remain on full tactical alert. The humanoid may purposefully attempt to delay completion of the prototype hoping she will be rescued.
TORRES: I don't know if a promise means anything to you people but it does to us. I gave you my word that I'd do my best, and I will.
3947: According to my observations, the humanoid is operating at optimal efficiency.
TORRES: Thank you. But I have to tell you there are no guarantees here. Building a prototype from scratch is a lot different than repairing a broken power module. I don't even know if it's possible.
6263: If you fail, you and your people will die.
3947: B'Elanna Torres, 6263 is a Designated Command Unit. He is merely following his programming.
TORRES: I don't need to be threatened. I told you I'd do my best.
3947: I believe you, but unit 6263 does not. He does not know Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres as I do.
TORRES: Let me see one of those terminated power modules.

[Briefing room]
KIM: We've managed to repair the hull breach but we have no power on decks three through seven.
TUVOK: Aft shields are still completely non-functional.
KIM: And last but not least, the dilithium matrix is destabilized, so we can't get the warp engines running.
CHAKOTAY: We're talking about at least another six days of repairs.
JANEWAY: We're not sticking around that long. I want a plan to get B'Elanna off that ship before she has a chance to finish building the prototype.
TUVOK: In that case I suggest we make warp drive our priority. Any rescue attempt will no doubt necessitate a rapid departure.
JANEWAY: Agreed. Mister Kim, can you give me an estimate on repairing the dilithium matrix?
KIM: How does seventy two hours sound?
JANEWAY: Like twenty four hours too long. Dismissed.

[Pralor vessel]
TORRES: Hand me the sub-micron scanner. Phase coil resonator. Well, I think I know why your other prototypes failed, but I'm not sure I know what to do about it yet.
3947: Explain.
TORRES: The automated units are modular. Your parts are identical, interchangeable, right?
3947: That is correct.
TORRES: So if you lose an arm you can replace it with another one, and over the years you've learnt to make new arms because they're all the same and your programming is sophisticated enough to allow you to reproduce what you see. But each power module has a slightly different energy signature, so even if you copy this guy's module exactly it wouldn't work in any other unit. As far as I can tell, every automated unit has a power module with a unique energy code.
3947: Can you reprogram the energy codes to make the modules interchangeable?
TORRES: I don't think so.
3947: You have failed. I will inform 6263.
TORRES: Hey, do all you automated units give up the minute you hit a bump in the road?
3947: You have an alternative idea?
TORRES: What we've got to do is design a standardized module with a uniform energy code that can power any unit.
3947: According to my observations, there is now sufficient reason for greater optimism.
TORRES: You took the words right out of my mouth.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Due to the complexity of their defense field and our severe power shortage, it is unlikely that we can modify the transporters to beam Lieutenant Torres out.
CHAKOTAY: But if we can maneuver inside the field
KIM: Our transporters could get the job done.
JANEWAY: Is that a viable option?
PARIS: For a shuttlecraft, it may be.
JANEWAY: They were able to knock out Voyager's shields in a matter of minutes. A shuttle would be even more vulnerable.
TUVOK: It would be advisable to create a diversion of some sort to take their attention away from the shuttle.
CHAKOTAY: Attack them again?
JANEWAY: I don't want to risk that a second time.
PARIS: I don't need a diversion. Just give me a chance, I'll get her out of there.
CHAKOTAY: You don't mind if the rest of us give you a little help, do you, Paris? I'd hate to lose another shuttle.
PARIS: Your concern for my welfare is heartwarming.
JANEWAY: In another twelve hours our warp engines will be back online. I'd like to come up with a diversion before then. Okay, gentlemen?

[Pralor vessel]
TORRES: So far so good. I'm not getting any feedback from the motor circuits. Are you going to be the obstetrician of this unit, 3947?
3947: Please rephrase the question.
TORRES: If this works, will you be in charge of assembling the new units?
3947: I am programmed as a ship's maintenance unit. I have no knowledge of design, nor do any of the other automated personnel.
TORRES: Sounds like you just volunteered for new duty. I hope you're watching closely.
3947: I am observing your work. However I do not possess your improvisational capabilities.
TORRES: Well, once we have the prototype, all you'd have to do is copy it. Tell me something, thirty nine. Can I call you thirty nine?
3947: I am automated unit 3947.
TORRES: Fine. 3947. Did you wake up on a bench like this one? How long have you been alive?
3947: I have been in service one million three hundred and fourteen thousand eight hundred and seven hours and thirty three minutes. I was activated by a Builder from the Pralor homeworld.
TORRES: Tell me something more about these Builders. Were they anything like us?
3947: I have insufficient knowledge of your culture to provide an adequate response. Will you provide additional information?
TORRES: Well. I asked about your culture, only fair you should ask about mine.
3947: Does your culture include artificial lifeforms?
TORRES: As a matter of fact, it does.
3947: Are they similar to the automated personnel units aboard this ship?
TORRES: Well, they come different shapes, and sizes. Some have limbs, some don't. Most don't have your cognitive abilities.
3947: Are they your servants?
TORRES: I guess, you could say that the robots we use are servants in a manner of speaking. But they aren't sentient like you. In fact, we have only one sentient artificial life form in our society, and he is treated the same as any human.
3947: The same? He is equal to a Builder?
TORRES: That's right. He works on a ship just like you or I. He wears the same uniform I do.
3947: What is his designated number?
TORRES: He has a name like the rest of us. Data.
3947: Data. I would like to be acquainted with this Data.
TORRES: Ah, looks like this standardized power module is working pretty well so far.
3947: You will succeed, B'Elanna Torres.
TORRES: Don't send me flowers yet. I've still got to see whether it will power an actual unit.
3947: I believe it will.

[Ready room]
CHAKOTAY: We're making progress on the dilithium matrix. It should be stable enough to reinitialize the warp core in about six hours.
JANEWAY: Good. What about our diversion. Any suggestions?
CHAKOTAY: When we were in the Maquis, B'Elanna once linked a holo-emitter to a deflector array and projected an image of another ship into space.
JANEWAY: I like it. But do we have enough power?
CHAKOTAY: We will by the time the warp core's online. I already have Kim working on the holodeck to
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK (voiceover): I am picking up an unidentified alien ship on long range sensors. It's heading for our co-ordinates.
JANEWAY: We're on our way.

[Pralor vessel]
TORRES: Well, it fits. Cross your fingers. So far so good. Let's hope it can interface with the unit.
3947: It does not function correctly.
TORRES: It does not function correctly yet. Your builders should have programmed you with a little more patience. I'm going to try adjusting the flux capacitance.
0001: Prototype unit 0001 is ready to accept programming.
TORRES: We did it. We actually did it!
3947: You did it, B'Elanna Torres. I knew this task would not exceed your operating capabilities.
0001: Prototype unit 0001 is ready to accept programming.
3947: What are you doing?
TORRES: I am congratulating you. You're a father!

[Bridge]
KIM: No sign of organic life aboard that ship either.
TUVOK: They appear to be manned by automated units virtually identical to those operating the first ship.
JANEWAY: Is it possible that we've stumbled into the middle of some kind of robotic war?
CHAKOTAY: We've got to get Torres back now.
JANEWAY: Agreed. But first I want to show both those ships this isn't our fight. Ease us back on maneuvering thrusters, Mister Paris, nice and steady.
KIM: The second ship is hailing us.
JANEWAY: On screen.
122 (screen): Cravic Automated Commander 122 requests you identify yourself.
JANEWAY: My name is Kathryn Janeway, Captain of the Federation Starship Voyager.
122 (screen): Withdraw from this area immediately.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I can't do that. One of my crewmembers is being held hostage aboard the Pralor vessel. I won't leave without her.
122 (screen): Remain at your present coordinates and do not attempt to intervene, or you will be fired on.
TUVOK: Captain, this new ship could be
JANEWAY: The diversion we've been looking for. Mister Kim, what's the status of our warp engines?
KIM: We're still an hour away at best.
JANEWAY: We may not have an hour. Get down to Engineering. Be ready to give me as much power as you can the minute we get Torres back.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: If those two ships keep each other busy we may not need warp to get away. Mister Paris, report to the shuttle bay.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, you have the con.

[Pralor vessel]
TORRES: Who are they?
3947: Automated Personnel Units of the Cravic homeworld.
TORRES: Robots from another world?
3947: That is correct.
TORRES: Why are they attacking you?
3947: They were programmed to do so by their Builders.
0001: Prototype unit 0001 is ready to accept programming.
TORRES: The Cravic Builders, the Pralor Builders, were they enemies?
3947: That is correct.
TORRES: Look, maybe Captain Janeway can contact the Cravic leaders and convince them to stop the fighting, then
3947: That is not possible.
TORRES: Why not?
3947: The Cravic are also extinct.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: I'm approaching the perimeter of the defense field.
TUVOK (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Rotate your shield harmonics until they are synchronized with the frequency of the field.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: Shields synchronized. I'm going in. Then again, maybe not.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: It didn't work. He bounced right off the field.
TUVOK: Mister Paris, reset your heading for coordinates one zero five

[Shuttlecraft]
TUVOK (voiceover): Mark four zero.
PARIS: Er, if I understand you, Tuvok, that would take me into a direct line of fire with the Cravic ship.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Precisely. The concentration of fire is opening a rift in the Pralor defense field.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: Which I just might be able to sneak through if I can dodge a disrupter blast or two. Changing heading.

[Pralor vessel]
TORRES: If both sides were annihilated then why continue your war?
3947: All Automated Personnel Units were programmed to achieve victory.
0001: Prototype unit 0001 is ready to accept programming.
3947: The Cravic ship has penetrated our defense shield.
TORRES: Has anyone in all these years ever tried to stop this war?
3947: The Pralor and the Cravic called a truce.
TORRES: Wait a minute. If both sides called a truce, then why didn't they stop you from fighting?
3947: They attempted to do so.
TORRES: And?
3947: We terminated the builders.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: Paris to Voyager. I'm approaching the entry

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): Point.
TUVOK: Acknowledged. Showing a rift in the defense

[Shuttlecraft]
TUVOK (voiceover): Field off your starboard bow.
PARIS: I'm on it.

[Pralor vessel]
3947: When it was anticipated that the war would end, the Builders no longer required our services and they intended to terminate us. In doing so, they became the enemy. We are programmed to destroy the enemy. It is necessary for our survival. Now that you have constructed a prototype, we will soon outnumber the Cravic units. We will achieve victory.
3947: This is unit 3947. Fire units report to reconstruction bay number one.
TORRES: The individual energy codes. Is that why the builders added them? To prevent the procreation of these units? My god, what have I done?
0001: Prototype unit 0001 is ready to accept programming.
3947: You have terminated the prototype.
TORRES: Yes, I have.
3947: You will build another.
TORRES: Never.
3947: Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres, I told 6263 you were not our enemy.
TORRES: I never wanted to be your enemy. I'm sorry.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: Shuttle to Voyager. I've got her but she's injured. Tell the Doctor to stand by.

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): Beam her out as soon as I clear the defense field.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged, Mister Paris.
TUVOK: The ships are continuing to exchange fire, Captain. They are ignoring the shuttle.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. Standby warp engines. We'll engage the moment Mister Paris gets back.
KIM (voiceover): Aye, Captain.

[Mess hall]
KES: One pot of Landras blend, compliments of the chef.
TORRES: Mmm. I never thought Neelix's coffee could taste so good.
KES: I'll tell him you said so.
TORRES: I don't know what to say.
JANEWAY: As far as I'm concerned, you did what you thought was necessary to ensure the safety of this crew.
TORRES: Thank you.
JANEWAY: It must have been difficult.
TORRES: Difficult?
JANEWAY: To destroy what you created.
TORRES: It was necessary.
JANEWAY: I read your report. It was no small achievement, B'Elanna. You gave that unit life.
TORRES: You should have seen it, Captain. It was incredible. I installed that module, and the prototype looked up at me and asked me for programming.
JANEWAY: As I said, it must have been difficult.
TORRES: It was necessary.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Captain!
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: It looks like the Kazon have retreated, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: We must have hurt them.
PARIS: Not as bad as they hurt us. All engines are offline.
TUVOK: Captain, shields are down as are all weapons arrays.
CHAKOTAY: We'd better hope they don't come back. We're sitting ducks.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Engineering, what's your status?

[Engineering]
TORRES: We're in bad shape Captain. We had to shut down the warp engines to avoid a breach. The impulse engines are gone too. I think I can give you thrusters but I've got a lot of casualties down here I've got to tend to first.
JONAS: Lieutenant! It's Kurt Bendera, he's hurt pretty bad.
TORRES: No!
JONAS: His console exploded, caught him right in the face.
TORRES: We've got to get him to Sickbay right away. Torres to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I hope this is urgent, Lieutenant. We have our hands full at the moment.
TORRES (voiceover): I'm setting up an emergency transport. One of my people is severely burned.
EMH: Very well, we'll do what we can.

[Bridge]
KIM: More damage reports coming in, Captain. There's a hull breach on deck four, forcefields in place, repair crews on the way.
CHAKOTAY: We've had casualties on all decks, no fatalities so far.
PARIS: Captain, request permission to give Torres a hand in Engineering. Maybe I can help get propulsion up and running.
JANEWAY: Good idea. Go ahead.
TUVOK: Captain, my readings indicate the navigational deflector has sustained massive damage. It will be necessary to repair it before we can achieve more than thruster power.
JANEWAY: Get repair crews on it. Mister Kim, I want a complete analysis of all the damage we've sustained.
KIM: Yes ma'am.

[Sickbay]
EMH: He's not responding. Seventy five milligrams of inpedrazine. That might help stimulate his cardiac functions, but he's sustained so much injury it may be too late.
KES: It had no effect.
EMH: Cortical stimulator. I'm sorry, he was too badly injured.
TORRES: He saved my life once, near the Cardassian border.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Crewman Bendera's dead. The Doctor couldn't do anything.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, Chakotay. I know you were friends. Will you arrange a memorial service?
CHAKOTAY: I'll get right on it.
JANEWAY: Was there something else?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. Like it or not, it seems we're in a situation where the rules have changed. And maybe, if we're going to survive out here, we have to start changing too.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: When we first started our trip home, you made a conscious decision to treat Voyager as a Starfleet ship with a Starfleet crew following Starfleet rules.
JANEWAY: That's right.
CHAKOTAY: Starfleet works well in the Alpha quadrant, but out here, maybe we should be thinking more like the Maquis. The Maquis had to survive on their own. We were up against insurmountable odds. We had to create our own opportunities for success, because nobody was willing to help us. Sound like anybody you know?
JANEWAY: If you're suggesting we abandon our principles just because we're out of hailing range?
CHAKOTAY: Captain, this was the fourth attack in two weeks. We've lost three crew members to the Kazon, a dozen more have sustained serious injuries. The ship has taken so much damage we'll be lucky to get warp drive online again. And we can count on the fact that the Kazon will be back. I don't think we can afford to keep doing business as usual.

[Mess hall]
CHAKOTAY: A lot of us can say we're alive today because of Kurt Bendera. There was never a better man to have at your side, never anyone more willing to take on the tough jobs. The first time I met him was in a mining community on Telfas Prime. Some of the miners objected to my sense of humor and decided they should break a few of my bones. There were four of them and one of me, and I was taking a beating. Suddenly this man I'd never seen before came out of nowhere and evened things up. We stood back to back, and pretty soon the others decided my sense of humor wasn't so bad after all. I thanked the man. He just grinned and said, I like a good fight. He was my friend from that moment on, and he kept fighting the good fight right up to the end. I'll miss him. Ensign.
HOGAN: Captain, can I ask you something?
JANEWAY: Of course.
HOGAN: Now that the Kazon have stepped up their attacks, a lot of people think that we're not going to make it out of here alive. I'd like to know what you have to say about that.
JANEWAY: Is there anything you have to say about that? I assure you, you can speak freely.
HOGAN: I'd give them what they want. Give them the replicators and the transporters and whatever else it is they're after.
JANEWAY: I'm sure you realize that would be a violation of the Prime
HOGAN: I know all about the Prime Directive, but you know what? The Federation is seventy thousand light years away. What does it matter what these people do to each other with our technology.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your concerns, crewman, but let me make it absolutely clear. I'll destroy this ship before I turn any part of it over to the Kazon. So that's how the Maquis would do it, hmm?

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: It's all right, Commander, I know Hogan's upset. He and Bendera were close.
CHAKOTAY: But that's not why he thinks we should give the Kazon what they want.
JANEWAY: I think I've made my position clear on that.
CHAKOTAY: You have, but a lot of the crew feel they haven't had the chance to voice their opinions.
JANEWAY: This isn't a democracy, Chakotay. I can't run this ship by consensus.
CHAKOTAY: A lot of the Maquis feel the Federation abandoned them years ago. You may be willing to die for Federation principles, but they're not.
JANEWAY: I can't believe you'd support that man's position.
CHAKOTAY: I don't. But isn't there something in between your position and his?

[Turbolift]
JANEWAY: Deck three.
CHAKOTAY: All I'm saying, Captain, is that maybe there's a little room for flexibility in interpreting Starfleet's protocols. Frankly I'm not sure they were ever intended for situations like this.
JANEWAY: I haven't seen any evidence that they've let us down.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe this situation with the Kazon is the first example. Maybe we have to examine Starfleet's principles with a cold eye and ask ourselves if they're really applicable here.
JANEWAY: Computer, hold turbolift. Commander, if you have a specific suggestion, please feel free to make it.
CHAKOTAY: Make a deal, an alliance.
JANEWAY: With the Kazon?
CHAKOTAY: With one of their factions, or two. If we had the Ogla and the Relora as our allies, the others would be afraid to touch us.
JANEWAY: Nothing we've been through with the Kazon would lead me to believe they're trustworthy. I can't imagine making a deal with them.
CHAKOTAY: With all due respect, maybe that's because your imagination is limited by Starfleet protocols. As Captain, you're responsible for making decisions in the best interest of your crew, and I think you have to ask yourself if you're doing that.

[Tuvok's quarters]
TUVOK: Come in. Captain, this is unexpected.
JANEWAY: I've been in your quarters before.
TUVOK: Indeed, but so rarely that I can remember each instance. Vulcan spice tea, hot. And it was always at a time when you were particularly troubled.
JANEWAY: Right as usual. Thank you. Commander Chakotay has proposed that we make an alliance with one of the Kazon factions. We wouldn't give them weapons or technology, but we would pledge to support and defend them if they're attacked.
TUVOK: I am sure that made you uncomfortable.
JANEWAY: How can I consider it? I can't just walk away from the precepts Starfleet has laid our for us. You don't deal with outlaws. You don't involve yourself in the political machinations of other cultures. It goes against everything I believe, everything I trained for, everything experience has taught me.
TUVOK: Quite right.
JANEWAY: Do I hear a however coming?
TUVOK: You are perceptive, Captain. I believe Commander Chakotay's suggestion does have merit.
JANEWAY: Help me understand that.
TUVOK: When I was a young man, a great visionary named Spock recommended an alliance between the Federation and the Klingon empire. This produced a major dispute. The Klingons, after all, were outlaws, employing violence and brutality in order to build their empire. I myself spoke out against such a coalition. But the alliance was forged and it brought a stability to the quadrant that had not been there for two hundred years. Spock's suggestion, so controversial at first, proved to be the cornerstone of peace.
JANEWAY: There are some differences here. By allying ourselves to one faction, we'd be giving that faction more power than the others. That would clearly affect the internal politics of all the Kazon.
TUVOK: I understand your concern, but remember, it would only be a temporary arrangement since we are on our way out of this quadrant. In the meantime, it might bring stability to the region and security for us.
JANEWAY: Once we're gone they'll probably go back to their in-fighting.
TUVOK: Perhaps. But even temporary stability can bring an appreciation for peace. This flower is a rare hybrid. As far as I know it exists nowhere else in the galaxy. I created it by grafting a cutting from a South American orchid onto a Vulcan favinit plant. I doubted the graft would take, and indeed the plant was sickly at first. However, after a few weeks both plants adapted to their new condition and in fact became stronger than either had been alone.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Consequently, after much consideration, I've decided to seek an alliance with one of the Kazon factions.
KIM: Captain, you can't be serious. This goes against everything
JANEWAY: Ensign, I'll be glad to discuss my reasoning with you at a more appropriate time. However, this meeting is not to debate the decision but to decide how to pursue it.
NEELIX: Captain, if I may?
JANEWAY: Yes, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: We're not far from a planet known as Sobras, where there's a Kazon settlement inhabited by a faction known as the Pommar. I have an acquaintance there, someone who owes me some favors. Some rather large favors, actually. Perhaps I could meet with him and sound him out.
TUVOK: Is he authorized to speak for his Maje?
NEELIX: Not exactly, but he does have the Maje's ear. This would be strictly informal, but it might give us a reading on the possibility without the risk of actual confrontation.
JANEWAY: Good idea. Proceed, Mister Neelix.
KIM: Why don't we just contact Seska and form an alliance with her?
TORRES: Actually that's a good idea.
CHAKOTAY: You've got to be kidding!
TORRES: Not at all. Seska has been trying to forge an alliance among the Kazon. She would jump at the chance to get our support.
PARIS: She's right. If we went through Seska at least we could ally ourselves with the Nistrim.
CHAKOTAY: I think it's a bad idea.
JANEWAY: You can't have it both ways Commander. If you want to get in the mud with the Kazon you can't start complaining that you might get dirty.
CHAKOTAY: Fine. I'll talk with Seska.
JANEWAY: No, you've been through too much with her. Mister Neelix, prepare to take your shuttle to Sobras. In the meantime, I'll make contact with Seska. Dismissed.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 49337.4. After sending a subspace message to Seska and the Nistrim Maje Culluh, we have received a quick response.

[Bridge]
CULLUH (screen): Captain Janeway, Commander Chakotay, I must say we were surprised to hear from you.
JANEWAY: Are you willing to meet with us?
CULLUH (screen): You've made an interesting proposal. I've discussed it with Seska and she assures me that you would not make this gesture unless you were sincere. I will talk with you.
JANEWAY: I suggest we rendezvous. We'll transmit coordinates to you.
SESKA (screen): If you don't mind, Captain, we'd prefer to choose the coordinates.
JANEWAY: Fine. Transmit them to us.
CULLUH (screen): We'll meet in approximately twenty hours. I must say, Captain, I look forward to this opportunity.

[Sobras bar]
NEELIX: Hello my friends. Please, don't let me interrupt. I was hoping to find my good friend Jal Tersa here. Has he been in tonight?
NEELIX: Thank you. Tersa, my friend!
TERSA: It could be dangerous, sneaking up on a man like that.
NEELIX: I'd never dream of sneaking up on you, but you were so engrossed in whatever it is you're doing.
TERSA: A puzzle. What brings you here, Talaxian?
NEELIX: I'm good at puzzles, perhaps I can help?
TERSA: The dancer showed it to me. By moving only two rods this dodecahedron can become an icosahedron. She said she'd spend the night with the man who could solve it.
NEELIX: Oh, a splendid motivation, to be sure. I might just be able to make your night a memorable one.
TERSA: You know how to solve this?
NEELIX: I might, if you'll hear me out first. My fortunes have changed since we last met, Tersa. I've become a person of some influence aboard a starship known as Voyager.
TERSA: You must think us very isolated. Everyone knows that. It's probably the only reason you were allowed in here. Especially after last time.
NEELIX: A simple misunderstanding. Tersa, I know you have the ear of your First Maje, as I do with our Captain. We could be quite useful to both of them.
TERSA: Go on.
NEELIX: My Captain is interested in talking to your Maje, to discuss a possible alliance. Do you think he'd have any interest in such a meeting?
TERSA: An alliance? Between the Kazon Pommar and the Federations?
NEELIX: An interesting thought, isn't it?
GUARD: You're coming with us.
NEELIX: Tersa! Explain to them we're friends!
TERSA: I have no idea who this person is. Some lunatic who sat down and started babbling.
NEELIX: I guess you'll be spending the night alone.

[Briefing room]
CULLUH: You've made a good choice. The Nistrim will be a potent ally.
JANEWAY: We want to make sure the Nistrim will also be an honorable ally. That you'll adhere to the conditions we establish. You can let all the Kazon factions know that Voyager has formed a coalition with you and will be an ally to any Nistrim ship or outpost we encounter. In addition, we're prepared to provide emergency supplies when needed. Food, medicine, clothing.
TUVOK: What we will not provide is any of our technology or weaponry.
CULLUH: Understood. Just one other detail. An exchange of crewmembers.
JANEWAY: An exchange?
CULLUH: Yes. I'm sure you'll agree that our alliance should represent a genuine partnership.
TUVOK: Perhaps you should define that.
CULLUH: It's obvious. Federation crew on my ship, Nistrim crew on yours.
SESKA: Maje, I think that's a detail we could work out later.
JANEWAY: I can assure you that I would never agree to that.
CULLUH: It seems a natural extension of your own proposal.
SESKA: We don't have to decide everything right now.
CULLUH: I will determine what we decide, and when.
SESKA: Yes, Maje.
CULLUH: I won't have a woman dictate terms to me.
JANEWAY: Culluh, I found the idea of an alliance with you distasteful. I was willing to explore the possibility, but now I see my instincts were dead on.
CULLUH: Talk to her. Tell her to be reasonable.
JANEWAY: This meeting is over.

[Detention caves]
NEELIX: Once your Maje learns I'm being imprisoned he'll be outraged!
GUARD: Hurry up.
NEELIX: He won't look kindly on anyone who's made such a egregius error. What are you charging me with? How long will I be held?
GUARD: Go.
NEELIX: Well, I assume you'll at least let me confer with counsel. I have the ability to reward handsomely anyone who shows me a bit of understanding. Is that a baby?
NEELIX: My name is Neelix. I'm Talaxian.
MABUS: I'm Mabus. My friends and I are Trabe. They hurt you.
NEELIX: I wasn't walking quickly enough for them.
MABUS: Let's get the bleeding stopped, then I'll clean it.
NEELIX: Why are they holding you?
MABUS: They seem to be detaining anyone who isn't Kazon. Several of our group have been taken for questioning, but so far none of them have come back.
NEELIX: How long have you been here?
MABUS: Five days. They attacked us in space. Twenty of our group died. We've lost nine more since they put us in prison, including most of the governing council. I'm the only one left.
NEELIX: The Kazon won't be satisfied until you've all been annihilated.
MABUS: If we've learned anything, it's how to survive. Did you notice how many guards they have posted at the entrance to the prison?
NEELIX: Only two. I guess they assume this place is so secure that they don't need anymore. Why do you ask?
MABUS: We don't plan to sit here while they kill us one by one. We were able to get a message through to another Trabe vessel before we were boarded. Help is on the way. Can we count on you?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We're on our way to rendezvous with Mister Neelix. I can only hope that he had more luck with the Kazon than we did.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Captain, we're approaching the coordinates.
JANEWAY: All stop.
KIM: I don't see any trace of him.
TUVOK: Long range sensors indicate no sign of Mister Neelix's shuttle within a radius of two light years.
PARIS: The Kazon have him.
TUVOK: We cannot jump to conclusions. He may simply have been delayed.
JANEWAY: We'll hold position here for two hours. If he hasn't shown up by then, we'll go to Sobras.

[Engineering]
HOGAN: Lieutenant, could you fill us in a little? Well, there are all kinds of rumors flying around about what's going on with the Kazon.
TORRES: Nothing's going on yet. The Captain's talk with Seska fell apart pretty quickly.
HOGAN: Nothings going to come of all this. B'Elanna, you were Seska's friend. Couldn't you get word to her, try to work things out?
TORRES: No, I couldn't.
HOGAN: I don't understand how.
TORRES: Hogan, it's gone too far. Seska isn't the person we thought she was. I don't trust her any more.
HOGAN: Even if it means us getting home in one piece? Or do you agree with our Captain that holding on to our technology is worth dying for.
TORRES: Who are you to be second guessing Captain Janeway? The hardest thing you have to think worry is keeping that dilithium chamber filled. She os doing the best she can to get us home and if you don't like the way she's doing it, I really don't want to hear about it. Is that clear?
HOGAN: Perfectly.

[Detention caves]
MABUS: Some of the children are too weak to run. We'll have to carry them. We can use another pair of strong arms.
NEELIX: You can count on me.
MABUS: I can't promise we'll get out of here alive, but if we stay here we'll die anyway.
NEELIX: I'd rather go out fighting, myself.
MABUS: That one might be a problem. He's the kind who'll start shooting at the first sign of trouble.
NEELIX: I'll keep an eye on him.
MABUS: This may be it. Be ready. Stay back.
MABUS: Get back against the walls.
MABUS: Now! Let's go! Let's go! Come on! Come on, everyone! Let's go. Come on, out. Let's go. Come on. Nice work, my friends. Let's go.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: All right, that's it. We're going after him. Mister Paris, set a course for Sobras, full impulse.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, arm the phaser banks and load the forward torpedo bays. We don't know what the Kazon have in store for us.
KIM: Shields at full power.
CHAKOTAY: Yellow alert, all hands at the ready.
KIM: Captain.
JANEWAY: What is it?
KIM: Ships. Kazon ships on long range sensors, closing fast.
TUVOK: Confirmed, Captain.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TUVOK: It appears to be an armada, and the weapons are powered.
CHAKOTAY: Red alert!
JANEWAY: Power all weapons systems and stand ready. Mister Kim, hail the lead ship.
KIM: They're hailing us, Captain. I'll put it on screen.
NEELIX (screen): Hello, Captain. I'd like you to meet my good friend Mabus. We've just escaped from the Kazon Pommar.
CHAKOTAY: What are you doing on a Kazon ship?
NEELIX (screen): They're Trabe vessels, actually. Everything the Kazon have, they stole from the Trabe. Mabus will tell you all about it over a sumptuous dinner. The food hasn't been very good where we've been.
JANEWAY: I look forward to it.

[Mess hall]
MABUS: I was eight years old when it started. I wasn't even particularly aware of the Kazon. They lived in restricted areas that children weren't allowed to go near. I didn't know they lived in poverty and filth. I didn't know they were persecuted by the Trabe police. I was told they were violent and dangerous, and had to be kept isolated so they wouldn't get loose and kill us. Which is exactly what they did, but we brought it on ourselves. The Trabe treated them like animals, fenced them in, encouraged them to fight amongst themselves so they wouldn't turn on us, and sat by while they turned into a violent, angry army. When they finally realized we were their true enemy, we didn't stand a chance. I was luckier than most. A friend's father grabbed me and took me with his family to one of the starships that managed to escape. I can still remember it happened so fast. One minute I was a happy child playing in a field, the next an orphan exiled in space.
JANEWAY: It strikes me that in many ways we're in the same predicament. Separated from the lives we knew, searching for a home.
MABUS: A goal you may well achieve, Captain, but the Kazon have refused to allow us to find a new homeworld. Every time we try to settle somewhere, they attack and drive us away. We're scattered, like nomads, with no home and little hope.
CHAKOTAY: It happened over thirty years ago and the Kazon are still trying to punish you?
MABUS: Remarkable, isn't it? Most of the Trabe who persecuted the Kazon are either dead or old men by now. Most of us were children when the uprising occurred, and our children are innocent, but the Kazon's desire for revenge is as strong as ever.

[Somewhere on Voyager]
RETTICK (screen): How can you transmit to us without your crew knowing it?
JONAS: Well, that's for me to worry about. Let's just say I'm very familiar with communications protocols. Now, will you let me talk to Seska?
RETTICK (screen): Not without some proof you can be trusted.
JONAS: She and I knew each other for a long time. She knows that I can be trusted. Just let me talk to her.
RETTICK (screen): I'll convey your message. Contact me tomorrow and I'll let you know if she's willing to talk to you.

[Ready room]
NEELIX: Before the uprising, the Trabe were known as a highly evolved species. They produced scholars and artists who were widely admired and their technology was among the finest in the quadrant. No one really knew about the Kazon and how they were being treated.
JANEWAY: Why not? Holding another culture in virtual slavery isn't the kind of thing that could go unnoticed.
NEELIX: You have to understand. The Trabe were rich and powerful. They manipulated information about the conditions on their planet. And no one wanted to risk offending them, and losing opportunities for trade.
CHAKOTAY: It seems to me that they've learned their lesson. Mabus and his people have freely acknowledged that they were responsible for what happened to them.
TUVOK: Still, I do not see that it is a particularly good idea to form an alliance with the blood enemies of the Kazon. We risk uniting all the factions against us.
JANEWAY: The only thing the Kazon agree on now is that we are their common enemy. It's hard to imagine it getting much worse.
CHAKOTAY: The Trabe have a lot of ships and a lot of weapons in that convoy. I think this alliance would be better than none at all.
JANEWAY: I'd rather not be in the position of making an alliance at all, but that may be a luxury we simply don't have. My gut tells me we don't have any friends among the Kazon. As for the Trabe, I believe that people have a capacity to change. It's always been Starfleet's policy to deal with new species on a basis of openness and trust until proven otherwise.

[Sickbay]
MABUS: Captain, I'm glad to see you. I want to thank you for the use of your medical facilities. We have very few doctors.
EMH: Everyone seems to be in generally good condition. Malnutrition is the most common problem, but it's easily alleviated with bio-nutrient supplements.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Doctor. How much longer do you need?
EMH: I'd say less than an hour.
JANEWAY: Will you walk with me?
MABUS: Of course.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: I've been thinking about our conversation at dinner, about the things we share, and it seems to me we could be of mutual benefit to each other.
MABUS: Go on.
JANEWAY: What would you say to the possibility of our joining forces. My starship and your convoy.
MABUS: It clearly would be a stronger force if we did that.
JANEWAY: We could travel together for as long as it's advantageous to both of us. Maybe we'll find our way out of Kazon territory and you could settle on a new home world.
MABUS: It's a reasonable idea Captain. I have no objection. But it would only benefit your group and mine. There are other Trabe who wouldn't enjoy the same protection. I wonder if you might consider a somewhat more bold plan.
JANEWAY: Tell me.
MABUS: Together, the Voyager and the Trabe would be a force to be reckoned with. Suppose we took advantage of that and asked the representatives of all the Kazon factions to join us at the bargaining table.
JANEWAY: In order to achieve what?
MABUS: Peace. Together we would represent a stabilizing force in this corner of the quadrant. Bring the factions together, convince them that an end to violence would be in everyone's best interest. Think about it. I believe it could work.

[Culluh's vessel]
CULLUH: It's a message from Voyager. They've formed an alliance with the Trabe!
SESKA: The Trabe?
CULLUH: They're calling for a conference of all first Majes. How could this have happened?
SESKA: It happened because you let Voyager slip away right into the hands of the Trabe, by insisting on that ridiculous exchange of crews!
CULLUH: I could not let the negotiations be dictated by that woman!
SESKA: That's becoming a tired refrain, Culluh. One day that attitude will be your undoing.
CULLUH: Watch your tongue.
SESKA: Or what? I'm carrying your child. I don't think you'd do anything to jeopardize him. We can still turn this to our advantage. We have a crewman on Voyager who's willing to provide information to us. There's long term potential in that arrangement. We mustn't lose sight of it.
CULLUH: You're not suggesting we go to this conference? That we come running like a Calogan dog when the Federations call?
SESKA: Could you risk being the only Maje who doesn't attend? Of course you'll go, and listen. Nothing should be negotiated there, not at the point of a Federation weapon. But you can learn a great deal. Assess the mood of the other Majes, find out the strength of the Trabe convoy.
CULLUH: You may be right.
SESKA: You can come out of this a hero. You can use this conference to unite the factions, eradicate the Trabe once and for all, and take Voyager as a trophy.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 49342.5. Neelix has returned from Sobras where he learned a disturbing piece of information that may require us to rethink our plans.

[Ready room]
NEELIX: He was a Takrit, a band of mercenaries that operates in this system,
TUVOK: What was he doing when the Kazon Pommar arrested him?
NEELIX: My contact on the planet said that he was making a sketch of the conference site, and believe me the Takrid are not known for their art.
CHAKOTAY: Who sent him?
NEELIX: That's as much information as I got.
JANEWAY: So someone wants to sabotage this conference.
CHAKOTAY: One of the Majes.
NEELIX: Why miss a chance to wipe out your rivals while they're together in one room?
TUVOK: If that is true, then one of them will undoubtedly try to leave before the meeting is finished.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I think you should consider not going to the conference.
JANEWAY: No. If I can help bring stability to this quadrant, I'm not going to walk away because of a rumor.
NEELIX: A rumor that must be taken seriously nonetheless.
JANEWAY: Agreed. Commander, monitor all the Kazon vessels carefully, and look out for any suspicious ship movement near the surface. Keep us on a constant transporter lock so we can beam out at the first hint of trouble. Tuvok, Neelix, you're with me.

[Conference room]
TERSA: I gave a great deal of thought to the shape of the table. I finally decided on a triangle. Your group will sit on one side, the Majes will occupy the other two. Does that seem appropriate?
NEELIX: Have you heard anything more about the matter we discussed?
TERSA: Don't talk about that here. It could mean my head. Does the table shape seem acceptable?
NEELIX: Tersa, this time I am here with a powerful starship. You'd better be telling me everything you know.
TERSA: I am, I swear. I want to thank you for making it possible to have the conference here on Sobras. My Maje has rewarded me handsomely for the prestige it affords him. If there is any further way I can be of service, please let me know.
NEELIX: He hasn't heard anything more, but he's frightened. He must believe something's going to happen.
TERSA: The First Majes of the Kazon Order. Minnis of the Pommar. Surat of the Mostral. Loran of the Hobii. Valek of the Oglamar. And Culluh of the Nistrim.
CULLUH: Captain. We seem destined to encounter each other.
JANEWAY: This is Mabus, a governor of the Trabe.
MABUS: Maje Culluh. I'm gratified to be meeting you like this. I hope we'll be able to come to terms.
CULLUH: I never thought I'd see the day when any of us would sit at a table with the Trabe.
MABUS: Times change, Maje.
CULLUH: Perhaps.
JANEWAY: Shall we?
TERSA: Our gracious host Jal Minnis has provided food and drink to make our discussions more pleasant.
JANEWAY: We appreciate your coming. We hope this will lead to a new climate of peace.
CULLUH: Peace? With the Trabe? Forgive me if I'm a bit skeptical.
JANEWAY: I understand. After decades of antagonism you're bound to be suspicious. But surely everyone here is tired of constant violence.
SURAT: Aren't you really trying to get us to relax our guard so the Trabe can conquer us again?
MABUS: How can we do that? We're scattered and disparate. All we ask for is a chance to find a new homeworld and settle peacefully.
CULLUH: Excuse me.
CULLUH: Captain Janeway, I'm curious as to the nature of this alliance you've struck with the Trabe. Especially since you refused my offer of a similar pact.
JANEWAY: I found the goals of the Trabe to be compatible with our own. I represent an organization which is devoted to peaceful co-existence among people. The Trabe want nothing more than that.
RETTICK: The Trabe have always wanted peace for themselves, but we paid the price. They lived in luxury and we lived in squalor and misery.
CULLUH: What I fear, Captain, is that this union you've made with the Trabe is an effort to force us to capitulate. If so, we assure you, it is doomed to failure.
JANEWAY: I won't pretend that our alliance wasn't an attempt to make a show of strength. Separately, we and the Trabe are vulnerable. Together, we are stronger.
SURAT: Are you threatening us, Captain?
JANEWAY: It is important that you understand our determination, but it's not a threat, it's an offer. A negotiated peace among all of us would provide a greater stability in this quadrant. How could that do anything but benefit us all?
CULLUH: I can't speak for all of you, but I for one don't think we can trust this proposal. A woman and a Trabe. How can we listen to them? I find you nothing but a hypocrite, Captain, allying yourselves to the greatest villains this quadrant has ever known. If this is where your revered Federation values have taken you, I want no part of it.
MABUS: Gentlemen. Allow me to confer with my Federation colleagues. Please, have some refreshments and let us continue in a few moments. Captain, would you please join me?
MABUS: Captain, I really need to talk to you now!
JANEWAY: Get down!
CULLUH: What is this, Captain?
JANEWAY: It's a trap! Take cover!
JANEWAY: Voyager, red alert!
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We're on it.

[Transporter room]
MABUS: You've ruined what would have been the greatest step towards peace in decades.
NEELIX: Peace? A massacre?
MABUS: I could have decimated the Kazon leadership. It would have taken them years to recover.
JANEWAY: You planned this whole thing and used our good will to make sure you were successful.
MABUS: You don't know the Kazon. There's no dealing with them. Violence is all they understand.
JANEWAY: Or perhaps it's all you understand.
MABUS: You're naive, Captain. It's clear you have no understanding of the harsh realities of this part of space. What I tried to do was done as much for you as it was for us.
JANEWAY: I'm not grateful, and I want you off my ship. Chief, beam our former guest back to his vessel.
MABUS: Captain, don't do this. You're going to need us.
JANEWAY: I don't think so.
MABUS: The Kazon will be determined to seek revenge. How can this one ship hope to survive?
JANEWAY: Not by making deals with executioners. Energize.
TUVOK: I would suggest we depart before the Kazon have a chance to return to their ships.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Paris. Get us out of here.
PARIS (voiceover): Aye, Captain.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: There's no question we're more vulnerable now than ever. We have to take every measure to make sure we're prepared for an attack. I want continual diagnostics on all ship's systems.
TUVOK: I will schedule additional battle drills for all hands.
JANEWAY: Mister Neelix, what about our food supplies?
NEELIX: We're in good shape, Captain. We shouldn't have to stop anywhere for several weeks.
JANEWAY: Good. Lieutenant, what's the condition of our propulsion systems?
TORRES: We have a reasonable supply of anti-matter. Barring any major problems, we should have maximum performance of both warp and impulse engines.
JANEWAY: There's just one more thing I want to say. I hope there's a lesson for all of us in this. Although some of the species we've encountered here have been peaceful, others seem governed only by their own self-interests. This appears to be a region of space that doesn't have many rules. But I believe we can learn something from the events that have unfolded. In a part of space where there are few rules, it's more important than ever that we hold fast to our own. In a region where shifting allegiances are commonplace we have to have something stable to rely on. And we do. The principles and ideals of the Federation. As far as I'm concerned, those are the best allies we could have.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: Warp five. Warp six. Warp seven. I've reached critical velocity.
TORRES (voiceover): Okay. Everything looks good on this end. Fire up the new engines.
PARIS: Acknowledged. Engaging transwarp drive in four, three, two. Transwarp online. Warp nine point two, nine point three. My vector's drifting.
KIM (voiceover): Try to stabilize your field symmetry.
PARIS: Got it. Warp nine point six, nine point seven. I'm reading a fracture in the port nacelle pylon.
TORRES (voiceover): Full power to structural integrity.
PARIS: Warp nine point nine, nine point nine five. I'm approaching the threshold, but the nacelle isn't holding!
KIM (voiceover): Tie in auxiliary power!
PARIS: It's no use. I'm breaking up! I'm breaking

[Holodeck]
TORRES: You're dead.

[Mess hall]
TORRES: It's the pylon again. Every time we get close to crossing the threshold, the subspace torque rips a nacelle off the shuttle.
KIM: What about a duranium alloy? We could try using it to reinforce
TORRES: No, I've thought about that already. It's too brittle.
NEELIX: More coffee? Ah, you look like a happy bunch.
KIM: We've hit a wall.
NEELIX: Oh. Well, maybe I can help.
PARIS: Great. Do you know anything about quantum warp theory or multi-spectral subspace engine design?
NEELIX: No. But I'm a quick study. What are we working on?
TORRES: Do you have anything to eat?
NEELIX: Sure. There's some Kalavian biscuits, somewhere in the kitchen.
TORRES: I guess I'll go find them myself. Fill him in.
KIM: Neelix, it would take too long to
NEELIX: What are you saying? I'm not smart enough? I'll have you know I did two years as an engineer's assistant aboard a Trabalian freighter. I'm well-versed in warp theory.
PARIS: Okay, okay. We'll tell you. We're trying to break the maximum warp barrier.
KIM: Nothing in the universe can go warp ten. It's a theoretical impossibility. In principle, if you were ever to reach warp ten, you'd be traveling at infinite velocity.
NEELIX: Infinite velocity. Got it. So that means very fast.
PARIS: It means that you would occupy every point in the universe simultaneously. In theory, you could go any place in the wink of an eye. Time and distance would have no meaning.
KIM: If Voyager achieved warp ten, we could be home in as long as it takes to push a button.
NEELIX: Wow! And you're working on this?
PARIS: We discovered a new form of dilithium in the asteroid field we surveyed last month. It remains stable at a much higher warp frequency.
KIM: The problem is, every time we simulate crossing the transwarp threshold, the nacelles get torn off the ship.
NEELIX: I remember there was a time when I lost a warp nacelle going through a dark matter nebula.
PARIS: This is a very different problem.
NEELIX: I realize that. I'm just using it as an example. As the ship went through the nebula, it sent out a dark matter bow wave. Eventually so much pressure built up, it tore the nacelle from its housing. Now, maybe the same thing is happening to you.
KIM: No, the simulations don't indicate any kind of subspace stress on the nacelles.
PARIS: Wait a minute. What about the shuttle itself?
KIM: What do you mean?
PARIS: Maybe we've been looking in the wrong place. What if the nacelles aren't being torn from the ship? What if the ship is being torn from the nacelles?
KIM: The hull of the shuttle is made of tritanium alloy. At the speeds we're talking about, that alloy could depolarize.
PARIS: And create a velocity differential. The fuselage would be traveling at a faster rate of speed than the nacelles.
KIM: That means we just have to set up a depolarization matrix around the fuselage.
PARIS: That's it! Neelix, you're a genius.
NEELIX: I have no idea what they just said.

[Briefing room]
PARIS (screen): Warp nine point nine two. The pylons are secure. Everything looks good. Nine point nine seven, eight, nine. Warp ten!
TORRES (voiceover): You've crossed the threshold. You've done it. And there's been no damage to the nacelles.
JANEWAY: When you came to me a month ago and said you had a way to cross the transwarp threshold, I thought it was more of a fantasy than a theory. Congratulations to all of you.
TORRES: So we can try a manned test flight?
JANEWAY: What's your flight plan?
PARIS: I'll bring the shuttle up to speed. The second I cross the threshold, I'll cut the engines, drop out of warp and come about.
KIM: After that, we'll analyze the shuttle's sensor logs. Once we know it's safe to travel at transwarp, we'll try a more extended flight.
CHAKOTAY: To be honest, it's almost frightening. Up till now, it's all been theory. I never thought it would actually happen. Are we ready for it?
JANEWAY: In the last couple of centuries, we've always managed to use new technologies wisely. I'm confident this time won't be any different. Besides, there's no way to put the genie back in the bottle. All we can do now is keep moving forward, carefully. Well, good luck, Mister Paris. If this works, you'll be joining an elite group of pilots. Orville Wright, Neil Armstrong, Zefram Cochrane and Tom Paris.
PARIS: I kind of like the way that sounds.
JANEWAY: I thought you might.

[Paris' quarters]
PARIS: Come in. Oh, Captain. I, er
JANEWAY: At ease, Mister Paris. I know it's late.
PARIS: Can I get you anything?
JANEWAY: No, thank you.
PARIS: Now, why do I get the feeling this isn't just a social call?
JANEWAY: I've just spoken to the Doctor, and it's his opinion that we let Ensign Kim make the test flight.
PARIS: May I ask why?
JANEWAY: He checked over your biometric readings from the shuttle simulations. He says you have a slight enzymatic imbalance in your cerebellum.
PARIS: So?
JANEWAY: I know it doesn't sound like much, but he can't predict what'll happen when you cross the threshold. He believes there's a small chance that you could suffer a brain hemorrhage under the subspace stress.
PARIS: How big a chance?
JANEWAY: Two percent.
PARIS: Two percent? I'll take that chance.
JANEWAY: There's no reason to. Ensign Kim is capable of piloting the shuttle for this mission.
PARIS: Yeah, he's capable. That's not the point.
JANEWAY: What is the point, Mister Paris?
PARIS: Well, it's hard to explain, but this is my flight.
JANEWAY: Your flight?
PARIS: When I was a boy, my father used to tell me that I was special, that one day I'd do something significant. My teachers at school, all the kids, everyone used to say, Tom Paris is going to do something important when he grows up. Obviously, that didn't happen.
JANEWAY: This isn't about personal redemption. We're talking about medical risk. Your life could be in danger, and we need you.
PARIS: Captain, this is the first time in ten years I feel I have a life to risk.
JANEWAY: You're sure about this?
PARIS: Captain, I've never been so sure about anything. Please. Please let me make the flight.
JANEWAY: Good luck, Lieutenant.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Torres to Bridge. The pre-launch sequence is complete

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): Captain.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Ensign Kim, depressurize the shuttle bay and open the space doors.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Shuttlecraft Cochrane. You're cleared for launch.
PARIS (voiceover): Aye, Captain.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: See you at warp ten.
PARIS: Cochrane to Voyager. All systems are nominal. I'm increasing speed.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We'll keep up with you as long as we can.
PARIS: Warp seven

[Engineering]
PARIS (voiceover): Warp eight.
TORRES: How's his dilithium matrix holding up?
PARIS (voiceover): Warp nine.
JONAS: There's a slight variance in the warp field, but nothing to worry about.
TORRES: Okay. Torres to shuttlecraft Cochrane. You're clear for transwarp velocity.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: Acknowledged. Engaging transwarp drive in four, three, two

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): Warp nine point seven, nine point eight, nine point nine.
TUVOK: He's exceeding our maximum velocity. I am switching to long range sensors.
PARIS (voiceover): Warp nine point nine five.
TUVOK: He is approaching the threshold.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: Engine output at maximum. Velocity, warp ten.

[Bridge]
KIM: Yes!
PARIS (voiceover): Transwarp engines are stable. So are the nacelle pylons. I'm going to
JANEWAY: Lieutenant, can you hear me?
KIM: Captain, he just disappeared off sensors.
CHAKOTAY: Increase sensor gain to maximum.
KIM: Nothing. I can't find him. He's gone.
KIM: I've done three full sensor sweeps. No sign of the shuttle within five parsecs.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, could the shuttle have been destroyed?
TUVOK: I don't believe so. Sensors indicate that he did cross the warp threshold.
KIM: If that's true, then he could be anywhere in the universe.
JANEWAY: We'll just have to keep searching our small corner. Run a multispectral sweep. I want to see if
TUVOK: Captain, there's a quantum surge off the port bow. Something is coming out of subspace.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Paris.
KIM: He's alive, but his life signs are weak.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Transporter room two. Beam Mister Paris directly to Sickbay. Commander, bring the shuttle aboard. I'll be in Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.

[Sickbay]
EMH: His life signs are normal. A few elevated serotonin readings in the hypothalamus. From what I can tell, he's just asleep.
JANEWAY: Can you wake him?
EMH: I don't see why not.
EMH: Wake up, Lieutenant!
JANEWAY: Are you all right, Tom?
PARIS: I'm back.
JANEWAY: We tracked you until you crossed the threshold, then you disappeared from our sensors. Do you remember what happened?
PARIS: Oh, yeah. I was, I was staring at the velocity indicator. It said warp ten. And then, as I watched it, I suddenly realized that I was watching myself as well. I could see the outside of the shuttle, I could see Voyager, I could see inside Voyager. I could see inside this room. For a moment, I was everywhere. I mean, everywhere, Captain. With the Kazon, back home, with the Klingons, other galaxies. It was all there. I don't know how else to explain it. It was like. Well, no, it wasn't like anything.
EMH: Well, I'm glad you had a good time.
JANEWAY: How did you get back to Voyager?
PARIS: I saw that you were looking for me, so I took the new engines offline and ended up back where I started. But, oh, it's starting to slip away. It all was so vivid, and now
TORRES: Tom!
PARIS: Oh, I'm fine. How's the shuttle?
TORRES: You brought it back without a scratch. The on-board sensors confirm that you did it. You made it to warp ten.
JANEWAY: Congratulations, Mister Paris. You've just made the history books.
PARIS: We should download the shuttle's sensor logs, analyze the telemetry they picked up during the flight before we make another attempt.
EMH: You're not going anywhere. At least not for a few hours. I have some tests I'd like to run on Your Majesty before I release you back into the realm of ordinary humans.
PARIS: You may proceed.
JANEWAY: We'll download the logs. I'll let you know what we find.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Janeway to Kim. We're ready.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
KIM: Acknowledged. I'm downloading the logs into the Engineering computer core.

[Engineering]
TORRES: This data describes literally every cubic centimeter in this sector. It's over five billion gigaquads of information.
JANEWAY: It would appear that the theory of infinite velocity is correct. It may be possible to occupy every point in the universe simultaneously.
TORRES: Then it's just a matter of navigation. If we could figure out how to come out of transwarp at a specific point, this could get us home.
JANEWAY: It could do more than that. It could change the very nature of our existence. Think of it. There would be nothing beyond our reach. This telemetry is giving us an invaluable record of this sector. We can use it to make a star chart. Transfer the shuttle logs to Stellar Cartography for analysis.
TORRES: Right.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: This is a new blend. I'm calling it Paris Delight. It's in honor of you.
PARIS: What? Oh! Oh, thanks. That's very flattering.
NEELIX: I can tell.
TORRES: Well, you might as well get used to it. You're a hero now.
PARIS: I wish I could say it was nothing. Oh. Oh, I wish Neelix would name something after me that tasted a little better.
TORRES: Smells okay.
PARIS: No, trust me. You're taking your life into your hands. So, I think the next step is to try to duplicate the first shuttle flight, verify our results.
TORRES: I agree. We have to confirm that none of this was a fluke.
PARIS: But I do think that we should increase the shuttle's memory core by at least
TORRES: What? What's wrong?
PARIS: I don't think that coffee is settling too well.
TORRES: Do you want to go back to Sickbay?
PARIS: No! No, I've seen enough of the Doctor for one day. Ow! On second thought, maybe I should
TORRES: Torres to Transporter room two. Medical emergency. Beam Lieutenant Paris directly to Sickbay.
CREWMAN (voiceover): I can't lock onto him. His pattern keeps changing.
TORRES: Torres to Sickbay. We need a medical team in the mess hall right away. Hang on, Tom.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Hmm. It looks like he's having an allergic reaction. What did he ingest?
TORRES: Just a cup of Neelix's coffee.
EMH: It's a miracle he's still alive. This is strange.
TORRES: What is?
EMH: He's definitely having an allergic reaction. To the water in the coffee.
TORRES: He's allergic to water?
EMH: I don't know how this is possible, but it appears that his entire biochemistry is changing. His electrolytes are breaking down, interstitial fluids are congealing.
EMH: The alveoli in his lungs are mutating. He's no longer processing oxygen.
TORRES: What should we do?
EMH: Stand back. Computer, erect an isolation field around the surgical bay. Computer, remove all the air from within the forcefield and replace it with eighty percent nitrogen and twenty percent acidichloride. He can breath, for now.
TORRES: What's happening to him?
EMH: I have no idea, but I assume it had something to do with his experience on the shuttle.
EMH: His cellular membranes are deteriorating. He's dying. I need to know more about what happened on that shuttle, and I need to know it now. Radiation levels, unexplained anomalies, anything.
PARIS: You're losing me, aren't you? I'm going to die.
EMH: You're too stubborn to die, Mister Paris. I want to try high saturation radiometric therapy. It might slow down his cellular mutation.
PARIS: Here lies Thomas Eugene Paris, beloved mutant.
EMH: A fitting epitaph, but I don't intend to let you use it just yet.
KES: Radiometric emitters are charged and ready.
EMH: Begin with forty five rads per second.
PARIS: Great. Now it'll read, beloved radioactive mutant.
EMH: No effect. Increase the dosage to eighty five rads per second. I'm going to try inhibiting the cell mitosis with a biosuppresser field.
PARIS: Big funeral with lots of pretty girls all crying. Except Torres. Torres doesn't cry. Did you ever notice that? I don't trust people who don't cry. Of course, my father, he'd say crying is a sign of weakness. I never believed that. Do you cry?
EMH: It's not in my program.
PARIS: Shame. You know, it's funny. What I remember most about being a kid are the times I spent in my room crying. I liked my room, though. It was quiet in there. People would leave me alone. I'd keep the door locked, read, play games. I lost my virginity in that room. Seventeen. Parents were away for the weekend.
EMH: I'll note that in your medical file.
PARIS: Ow!
EMH: His lymphatic system is collapsing. Increase dosage to ninety eight rads per second.
PARIS: Pepperoni! God, I'd love a pepperoni pizza with Kavarian olives right now. I'm starving!
EMH: His life signs are critical. Maximum dosage.
PARIS: Kiss me.
EMH: What?
PARIS: Not you. Her.
EMH: She can't breathe the atmosphere in here.
PARIS: Consider it a last request.
KES: I'm sorry, Tom. If we let down the forcefield, you'll suffocate.
PARIS: Oh, what's the difference? I'm dying anyway. Do me a favor. When I'm gone, call Starfleet Headquarters and tell Dad that I did it. Tell him
EMH: Prepare to activate the neural stimulator.
KES: Ready.
EMH: Now! Again. Again! No neural activity.
KES: We can try to revive him.
EMH: His cell membranes have degraded. There's nothing more we can do. Computer, remove the acidichloride gas from the isolation field and deactivate the field. It will be necessary for us to perform an autopsy on the Lieutenant's body in the morning. Until then, I suggest you get some rest.
EMH: You're alive!
PARIS: What's happening?
EMH: All of your internal organs are functioning again. In fact, you seem to have an extra one.
PARIS: What?
EMH: You have two hearts.

[Somewhere on Voyager]
JONAS: I have thirty seconds before Security picks up this transmission. I'm sending you all current information on the warp ten shuttle flight.
RETTICK (screen): Warp ten? That's impossible.
JONAS: Not anymore. Lieutenant Paris crossed the threshold this morning.
RETTICK (screen): He survived?
JONAS: In a matter of speaking. It's all in the file. This should prove my worth to you, Rettick.
RETTICK (screen): We'll see.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: He's body is going through some sort of mutation. His DNA is rewriting itself. To what end, I don't know.
JANEWAY: Does this have anything to do with the enzymatic imbalance you found?
EMH: No.
JANEWAY: Can you stop it?
EMH: So far, nothing has worked. The mutations are unlike anything in Starfleet medical records. His internal organs are being rearranged. Some have atrophied and been absorbed into his body, and there are at least three others that have appeared and have no identifiable function at all.
JANEWAY: What about his brain?
EMH: There are neuroelectrical transmutations at work. His synaptic patterns are changing almost every second. But he does still recognize me, the ship. He knows who he is.
JANEWAY: Can I talk to him?
EMH: Of course. But I feel I should caution you that while he still is Tom Paris, he's becoming something else as well. His personality is erratic, unpredictable. There are moments of lucidity interspersed with almost deranged behavior.
JANEWAY: I'll keep it in mind.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: Pretty disgusting, huh?
JANEWAY: You've looked better. How do you feel?
PARIS: Like a lab experiment gone wrong.
JANEWAY: Well, we're trying to put that experiment right. The Doctor's working on a way to restore your DNA to its original
PARIS: Why?
JANEWAY: Excuse me?
PARIS: Why? What I'm becoming will probably be better than who I was.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant, you know that's not true.
PARIS: Oh, yes, it is. Admit it. Part of you will be glad to see me gone. I'm the Maquis traitor who sits on your Bridge and insults your uniform, remember?
JANEWAY: We're all concerned about you, Tom. We're here to help you.
PARIS: No, you're not. You're trying to take this away from me.
JANEWAY: Take what away from you?
PARIS: What I'm becoming. How do you know this isn't good for me? How do you know this isn't the best thing that's ever happened to me?
JANEWAY: That's a possibility. And then again, it could kill you. We need to find out what's going on.
PARIS: You're lying. Just like him. Just like everyone around here. Always lying. Always telling me that I'm doing a good job, that you're glad I'm on this ship. But none of that's true. Why can't you just say it? You're jealous that I broke the transwarp barrier, and now you're hoping I'll die!
JANEWAY: You're right, Doctor. I don't think there's anything I can do here.
PARIS: Wait, Captain. I'm sorry. Please come back. I know you're doing what you can. It's just, I'm scared. I didn't mean to lash out at you.
JANEWAY: What you're going through would scare any of us, but you have to hang on, Tom. We're doing everything we can to help you.
PARIS: I know you are. And I know you'll fail!
PARIS: You know, I used to look up to you. But now you seem so small, so insignificant. You don't even know what, what, what
KES: Doctor, the rate of genetic mutation has accelerated by twelve percent.
EMH: I want you to run a nucleogenic scan to determine how much of his original DNA is left intact. In the meantime, I'm going to see about treating him with
PARIS: Doctor!
EMH: What is it now, Mister Paris?
PARIS: I need to talk.
EMH: So I've noticed. Is it urgent? I'm rather busy right now.
PARIS: Urgent. Yes, urgent. Let me out of here.
EMH: I'm afraid that's not possible.
PARIS: Please. I can't stay here. I have to get off this ship.
KES: Leave Voyager? Why?
PARIS: I understand. It's all so clear now.
EMH: What do you understand?
PARIS: The present, the past, they're both in the future. The future is in the past.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
PARIS: Listen to me! I am more. I'm everything. Let me go.
KES: Go where, Tom?
PARIS: I can't! Please. Please!
EMH: Something tells me we'd better hurry.

[Briefing room]
EMH (screen): I believe the answer lies in forcing his DNA to revert to its original coding. Once that occurs, his body should return to its former state.
CHAKOTAY: How do we do that?
EMH (screen): We destroy all of the new DNA in his body. His cells will have to use the original coding as a blueprint. But the only way to destroy the mutant DNA is with highly focused antiproton radiation.
TORRES: Antiprotons? The only place on this ship which generates antiprotons is the warp core.
EMH (screen): Exactly. I'd like to place Mister Paris in an isotopic restraint and then infuse it with controlled antiproton bursts. A tricky venture, but I see no other alternative.
TORRES: We'll have to take the warp core offline, then I'll need about three hours to set up an interface.
EMH (screen): In three hours, there won't be anything left of Mister Paris to save. We have to make the attempt within an hour, at the most.
JANEWAY: Get moving.

[Engineering]
EMH (screen): What's your status, Lieutenant?
TORRES: The interface is charged and ready.
EMH (screen): Infuse him with a two second antiproton burst.
TORRES: Take the warp engines offline. Bleed off point zero five seven AMUs of antiproton radiation. Shunt it through the interface.
JONAS: Transfer underway.

[Sickbay]
KES: Doctor, the mutated DNA in his liver cells has begun to deteriorate, but the original coding isn't taking over.
EMH: I don't understand. This should be working. We'll have to increase the duration of the bursts. Lieutenant, prepare a five second burst. Also, you'll need to begin depolarizing the
TORRES (screen): Oh, my God.
EMH: Lieutenant?
TORRES (voiceover): Call Security!
EMH: Lieutenant! What's happening?
CREWMAN (voiceover): I got him! I got him! Over there! Shut it all down!
TUVOK (voiceover): This is a Level three Security Alert. All hands report to duty stations.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Janeway to Bridge. Report.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Paris broke out of confinement in Engineering.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: He used a phaser on the port plasma conduit. We have power failures all over the ship.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Where is he now?
CHAKOTAY: We're having trouble tracking him. We can't get power to the internal sensors. Tuvok has security teams searching deck by deck.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: I'm on my way to the Bridge.

[Bridge]
KIM: Phaser discharge on deck six.
CHAKOTAY: Localize it.
KIM: I'm still having trouble with internal sensors. It came from somewhere between sections twenty one and twenty seven alpha.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok doesn't have any security in that area. Chakotay to Tuvok. We think Paris may be on deck six. Deploy security to sections twenty one through twenty seven alpha.
KIM: Commander, someone's depressurizing shuttlebay two.
CHAKOTAY: What?
KIM: There's a launch in progress.
CHAKOTAY: Tractor beam.
KIM: It's offline.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to Bridge. We found the Captain's phaser on deck six, but there's no sign of her.
CHAKOTAY: Maintain a sensor lock on that shuttle.
KIM: I've got main power back.
CHAKOTAY: Engage warp engines. Follow them.
CREWWOMAN: Aye, Commander.
KIM: They're approaching warp nine point nine.
CHAKOTAY: Increase speed to match.
COMPUTER: Warning. Nearing maximum warp velocity. Structural collapse is imminent.
CHAKOTAY: Are we in tractor range?
KIM: No, and they're still accelerating. Warp nine point nine seven.
COMPUTER: Warning. At present speed, structural failure in forty five seconds.
CHAKOTAY: Reduce sped to warp nine point five. Keep a sensor lock on them as long as you can.
KIM: I've lost them, Commander. They've gone to transwarp. First Officer's log, stardate 49373.4. It's taken us three days to locate the shuttle. It appears to have dropped out of transwarp in an uninhabited star system.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've re-examined the data on Mister Paris' transformation, and I think I understand what's happening to him. The mutations we observed are natural.
CHAKOTAY: Natural?
EMH: The changes in his DNA are consistent with the evolutionary development of the human genotype observed over the past four million years. Increased brain capacity, the loss of vestigial organs.
TUVOK: Are you saying Lieutenant Paris is evolving?
EMH: That's my theory. The only difference between natural evolution and what happened to Mister Paris is that his changes took place over a twenty four hour period. Somehow, traveling at infinite velocity accelerated the natural human evolutionary process by millions of years. It's possible that Mister Paris represents a future stage in human development, although I can't say it's very attractive.
CHAKOTAY: What do we do about it?
EMH: I think my antiproton approach was correct. However, I'll need to intensify the treatment to restore his original DNA.
KIM (voiceover): Bridge to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
KIM (voiceover): I think I've found the shuttlecraft, Commander. It's on the fourth planet, in one of the jungles near the equator.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. Tuvok, have a security team meet us in Transporter room three.

[Planet surface]
CHAKOTAY: There are traces of human DNA. It's them. But I have to admit, I'm not sure which one is the Captain.
TUVOK: The female, obviously.
CHAKOTAY: I don't know how I'm going to enter this into the log.
TUVOK: I look forward to reading it. First Officer's log, supplemental. We've transported the Captain and Mister Paris back to Sickbay. As for their offspring, I've decided to leave them in their new habitat.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've eradicated all traces of the mutant DNA from your system and restored your original genome. Congratulations. You're human again.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Doctor.
EMH: Captain, it'll take some time for your genetic codes to stabilize. I'd like you to remain in Sickbay for the next three days, just to be safe.
JANEWAY: Excuse me.
PARIS: Captain, er
JANEWAY: I've thought about having children, but I must say I never considered having them with you.
PARIS: Captain, I'm sorry. I, I don't know what to say, except I don't remember very much about, er, you know
JANEWAY: What makes you think it was your idea? Sometimes it's the female of the species that initiates mating. But apology accepted, nonetheless. You may be interested to know I'm putting you in for a commendation. Regardless of the outcome, you did make the first transwarp flight.
PARIS: Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: Is there something wrong, Lieutenant?
PARIS: I don't know. I guess this whole experience has left me feeling a little overwhelmed. Flying at warp ten, evolving into a new life form, mating, having alien offspring.
JANEWAY: You've broken more than one record, that's for sure.
PARIS: Breaking the threshold. It was incredible. But somehow it doesn't mean as much as I thought it would.
JANEWAY: Oh?
PARIS: I guess I went into this looking for a quick fix. I thought making history would change things. Not just my service record, my reputation.
JANEWAY: If I'm not mistaken, you've changed quite a few minds on this ship. You've earned a lot of people's respect and admiration.
PARIS: Yeah. But I'm starting to realize that it's not other people's opinions I should be worried about. It's mine. It seems, Captain, that I still have a few barriers to break. I just hope they're not theoretical impossibilities.
JANEWAY: Somehow, I don't think they will be.

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]
KIM: Game.
PARIS: Why don't we make it interesting this time. Let's add some table stakes.
KIM: What kind of stakes?
PARIS: I don't know. Hmm. Couple of replicator rations, maybe?
RICKY: Don't do it, Harry. He's hustling you.
KIM: Wait a minute. Are you saying he deliberately let me win?
PARIS: That would be dishonest, Harry.
KIM: I won that game, and I'll beat you again.
PARIS: How many rations are you willing to bet on that?
CREWMEMBERS: Go for it, Harry.
KIM: A week's worth.
PARIS: Harry, Harry, Harry. Never, ever play with anyone, not even your best friend, if he says let's make it interesting. You want a little action, I'll give you a little action. How about an honest game of chance?
RICKY: Never play with anyone, even your best friend, if he offers you an honest game of chance, Harry.
PARIS: One replicator ration is all it takes to play, and the only thing you have to do to win is pick a number. Just predict what the radiogenic particle count will be at twelve hundred hours tomorrow, and if you hit the pot is yours. Minus a small handling fee for the bank, of course.
CREWMAN: I'll take a piece of that.
JONES: Jones.
PARIS: Harry, get a PADD, take down these names and numbers.
KIM: I'm in too.
LEWIS: Lewis, twenty one hundred.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Ensign Hogan, still no luck with the warp drive?
HOGAN: No, Lieutenant. The manifold just won't fire up. We've finally narrowed it down to some kind of a problem in EPS conduit one four one.
TORRES: Was there any indication yesterday that there was something wrong?
HOGAN: Suder was monitoring the EPS flow and the CCF. He says everything was fine.
TORRES: I guess we'll just have to get in there and track it down.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Happy Kal Rekk, Mister Vulcan!
TUVOK: The holiday of Kal Rekk is not for two weeks.
NEELIX: But it's the Kal Rekk season.
TUVOK: There is no Kal Rekk season. Kal Rekk is a day of atonement, solitude and silence.
NEELIX: Atonement. Solitude. All your Vulcan holidays are the same. I've been doing some research, I know.
TUVOK: Why would you need to do research on Vulcan holidays?
NEELIX: It's part of my job as Morale officer.
TUVOK: Morale is irrelevant to a Vulcan.
NEELIX: Oh, please! There's no one on this ship requires my services more than you do. I will not rest until I see you smile.
TUVOK: Then you will not rest.
NEELIX: I don't suppose you've ever heard of the Vulcan Rumarie?
TUVOK: The Rumarie is an ancient pagan festival.
NEELIX: Full of barely clothed Vulcan men and women covered in slippery Rillan grease, chasing one another.
TUVOK: That has not been observed for a millennium.
NEELIX: Well, it's time to bring it back.
TORRES (voiceover): Lieutenant Tuvok, report to Engineering immediately.
TUVOK: Acknowledged.
NEELIX: I've been thinking of a Rumarie theme for the mess hall next week. Lots of high fat, greasy foods, and if people want to take of their clothes and chase one another, well, it certainly wouldn't hurt morale around here.

[Engineering]
TUVOK: Is there a problem, Lieutenant?

[Sickbay]
EMH: Ninety eight percent of his body suffered third degree plasma burns. If the circuit hadn't failed, he would have been vaporized.
TUVOK: It appeared that Mister Darwin entered the conduit to repair a faulty circuit when the accident occurred.
EMH: A perfectly good theory. Unfortunately it's wrong. This contusion is the result of a hard blow to the back of the skull.
TUVOK: Perhaps he fell and hit his head in the conduit.
EMH: The coup contra-coup pattern of breakage should tell us if the blow is the result of a moving head hitting a stationary object, or a moving object hitting a stationary head. In this case the pattern clearly indicates the latter. I'm sorry to report Crewman Darwin was murdered.

[Ready room]
TUVOK: At first glance there is no obvious motive. Crewman Darwin didn't have any known enemies on board.
JANEWAY: I've been looking over his Starfleet record. His training instructor recommended him as an Officers candidate. He turned it down to come with us. He has three sisters back home.
TORRES: Sorry I'm late. These are the duty logs from last night. Lon Suder was the only one in Engineering when Frank Darwin came on duty.
JANEWAY: Something wrong?
CHAKOTAY: No, not really. I've just never really been comfortable with Suder, that's all. It's not like he ever did anything wrong, it's just
TORRES: As a Maquis, he did what he had to do a little too well.
JANEWAY: As in?
CHAKOTAY: As in killing Cardassians.
TUVOK: I don't recall observing anything unusual about Mister Suder's behavior while I was on your ship.
CHAKOTAY: You weren't with him in battle. Around us he was the quietest, most unassuming guy you'll ever meet. Typical Betazoid, Kept to himself. I never knew much about him.
TORRES: In the Maquis, we didn't ask for resumes. We needed all the help we could get.
CHAKOTAY: A lot of us were doing what we were doing to protect our families, but Suder had his own reasons. I wish I could tell you what they were. In combat there was something in his eyes.
JANEWAY: Maybe he had something personal against Cardassians?
CHAKOTAY: Sometimes I had to pull him back, stop him from going too far. And once or twice when I did he looked at me with those cold eyes and I just knew he was this far away from killing me.
TUVOK: I find it curious that none of this was included in your initial crew evaluation, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I don't put down hunches or bad feelings in my crew evaluations, Lieutenant. A Vulcan should appreciate that.
TUVOK: Considering the fact that your Maquis crew included malcontents, outlaws and mercenaries, I believe it would have been appropriate.
CHAKOTAY: I wasn't going to make it harder for any of them here. Suder did his job when he was serving with me and he's done his job since he's been on this ship.
JANEWAY: It seems clear where your investigation should begin, Lieutenant.

[Tuvok's office]
SUDER: You wished to see me, Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: Sit down. You were alone in Engineering when Crewman Darwin reported for duty last night.
SUDER: Yes, sir.
TUVOK: Did you speak to him?
SUDER: No, we just sort of looked at each other and he did whatever he had to do and I did what I had to do.
TUVOK: And what was that?
SUDER: I was running a fuel consumption analysis for Lieutenant Torres. She can tell you. Are you accusing me of killing him?
TUVOK: I have accused no one at this time. Did you kill Crewman Darwin?
SUDER: No. No, I barely knew him. You know, just because I'm a Maquis doesn't make me a killer.
TUVOK: I will be speaking to everyone in Engineering, perhaps everyone on this ship, not just former members of the Maquis.
SUDER: We all know how you feel about the Maquis.
TUVOK: I assure you, I have no feelings about the Maquis.
SUDER: No, you just spied on us and were going to turn us all over to Starfleet.
TUVOK: As hard as it may be for you to understand, that did not require any feelings on my part. The Doctor places the time of death at twenty two fourteen. Do you remember what you were doing then?
SUDER: I was still running the fuel analysis. I worked on it until I went off duty.
TUVOK: Would you be surprised to know that your console was logged off at twenty two oh nine?
SUDER: That's not possible.
TUVOK: Do you have a criminal record, Mister Suder?
SUDER: Now that would be sort of difficult to check on, wouldn't it?
TUVOK: Why would you have any reason to lie?
SUDER: I don't.
TUVOK: Do you have a criminal record?
SUDER: No.
TUVOK: How would you describe your relationship with Crewman Darwin?
SUDER: I had no relationship.
TUVOK: No disagreements?
SUDER: No.
TUVOK: No fights?
SUDER: No.
TUVOK: No reason to kill him?
SUDER: No.
TUVOK: You are dismissed, Crewman. I may have more questions for you later.
EMH (voiceover): Medlab to Lieutenant Tuvok.
TUVOK: Go ahead, Doctor.
EMH (voiceover): I think I've found something that will help you.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Do you see the DNA strands on the lower border?
TUVOK: Yes. They were retrieved from inside the head wound by nanites that I designed to recognize unusual DNA patterns. This DNA was isolated because it didn't belong to the victim.
TUVOK: Have you matched it to a member of the crew?
TUVOK: Are you certain?
EMH: DNA doesn't know how to lie, Lieutenant.

[Suder's quarters]
TUVOK: I must advise you that under Starfleet Directive one zero one you do not have to answer any questions.
SUDER: No. No, there's no point in denying it anymore. I used a two kilo coil spanner. He was sitting at the impulse system control panel. Didn't even look up when I moved in behind him and I swung the spanner as hard as I could.
TUVOK: Crewman, I suggest you speak to counsel.
SUDER: There was practically no blood. I was surprised at that. I figured that the EPS conduit was the easiest way to dispose of the body, but I must have damaged one of the circuits when I put him inside. Oh, I hid the spanner behind a comm. line access panel on deck seven.
TUVOK: Why did you kill him, Mister Suder?
SUDER: No reason.
TUVOK: That is not a satisfactory answer. You must have had some motive.
SUDER: I didn't like the way he looked at me.

[Sickbay]
EMH: No doubt about it, this is the murder weapon. Mister Suder is apparently telling the truth. You don't seem satisfied, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: No.
EMH: You have a confession and the murder weapon.
TUVOK: And no established motive.
EMH: Does it matter?
TUVOK: Crime must have a logical purpose.
EMH: Ah yes, I see. How to close the case without understanding the logic of the crime. For a Vulcan, that would be a dilemma, wouldn't it.
TUVOK: Doctor, is it possible that Mister Suder is psychotic?
EMH: I doubt it. Kes, call up his genetic profile.
KES: The neurogenetic markers are normal. There's no tendency towards bipolar disorder.
EMH: So he's not insane, per se. What do the elevated norepinephrine levels suggest?
KES: Aggressive, even violent tendencies.
TUVOK: Why didn't you report this immediately after your examination, Doctor?
EMH: These readings are not significantly different from those of the other Maquis crewmen. Obviously it takes a certain personality type to be attracted to the life of an outlaw.
KES: Don't you believe his confession, Tuvok?
TUVOK: In fact I do. Nevertheless, my job is not finished until I determine a motive.
EMH: And what if there was no motive?
TUVOK: One may not recognize the motivation, but there is always motivation.
EMH: I think you are trapped in your own Vulcan logic, Lieutenant. All of us have violent instincts. We have evolved from predators. Well, not me, of course, I've just been programmed by you predators. The question is, in a civilized world, can we suppress those instincts? Most of the time we can. Vulcans certainly can. You've got your violent feelings buried underneath centuries of control. But the rest of the humanoid races aren't always so skilled at self-discipline. Crewman Suder may have violent impulses that he just can't control.
TUVOK: Do you believe that a look by Mister Darwin could provoke such a violent reaction?
EMH: It has been known to happen.
TUVOK: I do not accept that explanation.

[Brig]
SUDER: I already told you why I killed him, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: You didn't like the way he looked at you.
SUDER: Right.
TUVOK: Just how did he look at you?
SUDER: Like a lot of people in Starfleet do.
TUVOK: So this murder could in fact be explained as an outburst of rage against Starfleet.
SUDER: Look, if that's how you want to look at this.
TUVOK: I want the truth.
SUDER: I don't like Starfleet, I won't deny that, but
TUVOK: Yes?
SUDER: I have killed people who weren't in Starfleet for the same reason. I did not like the way they looked at me. I've thought about killing you, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: In my case, you have a motive. My previous mission as a spy, my role as your accuser. But to my knowledge, Crewman Darwin had done nothing to you.
SUDER: That's true.
TUVOK: Then why chose him as a victim?
SUDER: I don't know.
TUVOK: Do you feel remorse?
SUDER: I don't seem to feel anything at all. Most Betazoids can sense other people's emotions. I can't even sense my own. So what's going to happen to me now?
TUVOK: I'll have to discuss that with the Captain.
SUDER: I know what I'd do if I were her. Guess I'm lucky. The Federation doesn't execute people.
TUVOK: It is important that I understand why you killed Mister Darwin.
SUDER: I wish I could help you, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: You can. And indirectly I may be able to help you as well. Do you know what a mind meld is?
SUDER: It's that Vulcan thing where you grab someone's head.
TUVOK: We would be telepathically linked, exchanging our thoughts. In essence, becoming one mind.
SUDER: One mind? You and me? I wouldn't recommend that, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: It is not without risk, but as a Vulcan I have internal processes that allow me to control violent instincts. I believe I will be able to suppress whatever feelings I draw from you.
SUDER: And how will I be helped by all this?
TUVOK: It is likely that you will gain, at least for a time, some of my self discipline to better control your violent nature.
SUDER: What do I have to do?
TUVOK: Release the forcefield.
TUVOK: My mind to your mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts.

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]
COMPUTER: Radiogenic particle density at the measured co-ordinates was one eight seven three per cubic meter.
PARIS: And the winner of sixteen replicator rations in the Paris radiogenic sweepstakes is? Computer?
COMPUTER: There is no winner today.
PARIS: What? No winner? Computer, are you positive?
COMPUTER: Try your luck again. Tomorrow you could be a winner.
KIM: Very funny.
PARIS: You heard the little lady. Try your luck again, folks. The pot grows daily until we have a winner. Enter your name on the PADD and pick a number. Can I buy you lunch, Mister Kim? I have an extra ration today.
KIM: Two, by my count. Ten percent of the day's action. The only one who wins every day is you.
PARIS: I think I'll have some prime rib, medium rare, mashed potatoes, creamed spinach, and maybe some Yorkshire pudding. And a Raktajino with whipped cream on it.

[Ready room]
TUVOK: So it ultimately turned out to be a worthwhile and enlightening experience.
JANEWAY: Did you get any of the answers you were after?
TUVOK: It is difficult for me to accept, Captain, but Mister Suder was telling the truth as he knew it. He is a man with an incredibly violent nature living in an environment without any outlet to express it. I am surprised he was able to maintain his self control for as long as he did.
JANEWAY: I guess in his earlier life he always found ways to release those impulses, like volunteering for the Maquis. What do we do with him?
TUVOK: If we were home, he'd be sent to prison.
JANEWAY: The brig is the closest thing we have. But I don't think we can just leave him down in our dungeon for the rest of the trip.
TUVOK: Nor would it be appropriate to leave him in the custody of someone in this quadrant.
JANEWAY: I agree.
TUVOK: Captain, he is prepared to die for his crime.
JANEWAY: An execution? You're not seriously suggesting that we
TUVOK: I only mention it because of the extenuating circumstances, and because he feels it would be an appropriate punishment.
JANEWAY: I don't. I prefer to rehabilitate him, not to end his life. We'll confine him to quarters. Work with Kim to install maximum security containment.
TUVOK: Pardon me, Captain, but allowing him the comfort of his own quarters doesn't seem an appropriate punishment for murder.
JANEWAY: If we don't get home soon, he'll be in that room a long time, Mister Tuvok. I think this is the best we can do under these circumstances.
TUVOK: Crewman Darwin's three sisters might not agree.
JANEWAY: How is Suder since the mind meld?
TUVOK: Quite calm and controlled. Clearly the meld initiated some high cortical activity in his brain.
JANEWAY: And you, Tuvok? Any adverse effects?
TUVOK: I will admit that I am more disconcerted than I anticipated.
JANEWAY: Why don't you take a day or two off for meditation.
TUVOK: Thank you, but I am already taking steps to purge these residual feelings. I don't believe time off will be necessary. I will of course advise you of any further complications.
JANEWAY: Tuvok. Take care of yourself.

[Mess hall]
TUVOK: I would prefer to be alone.
NEELIX: Okay, all right. Far be it from me to bother anyone. If you really want me to leave, I'll leave.
TUVOK: I really want you to leave.
NEELIX: I don't believe you. Your voice says go away, but your heart want me to make you smile.
TUVOK: Please, go away.
NEELIX: Come on. A little smile. How is it going to hurt? I won't tell anyone.
TUVOK: What must I do to convince you to stop.
NEELIX: Come on, just a little itty bitty smile. Just let the mouth curl a little then. There's an old Talaxian song my mother used to sing me as a child. I'm going to sing it to you every day from now on. It goes
NEELIX: Mister Vulcan, I can't breathe, I can't breathe, I'm sorry, I, I
TUVOK: Computer, end holodeck program.

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]
COMPUTER: Particle density at the measured co-ordinates was one four one five per cubic meter.
PARIS: And the winner is? Computer? Computer?
CHAKOTAY: There won't be any more winners.
PARIS: Oh come on, Chakotay. We're just having a little fun. The recreational facilities of the Delta Quadrant being what they are.
CHAKOTAY: I've heard you're responsible for this, Lieutenant.
PARIS: I didn't think Starfleet would have a problem with it.
CHAKOTAY: With a senior officer running a gambling operation and skimming profits from each days proceeds? Now why would Starfleet have a problem with that? Since you all seem to have extra replicator rations you won't be needing these. Today's pot is hereby confiscated. The Captain's put a lot of faith in you, Mister Paris. She'll be disappointed. You're on report.
PARIS: Now there's a tough job, filling out reports. But somebody's got to do it.
KIM: Thanks a lot.

[Brig]
SUDER: I did not hear you come in, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: How are you feeling?
SUDER: Centerd.
TUVOK: Don't be misled. Your violent instincts still exist. You are simply suppressing them as Vulcans do.
SUDER: I can feel the difference. It is almost as if I can observe the violence inside me without letting it get too close. It is quite remarkable what you Vulcans have learnt to do.
TUVOK: Understand that this will not be a permanent change unless you commit to a strict daily regime of meditation and mental exercise. I also believe that a series of holodeck programs designed to allow your violent tendencies to be released in a safe environment may help to purge your aggressive impulses.
SUDER: Holographic violence does not give the same sensation as the real thing. I've tried it.
TUVOK: Has anyone ever suggested targeted neurosynaptic therapy?
SUDER: That didn't work either.
TUVOK: Our Doctor is programmed with the medical knowledge of every Federation world. Perhaps he'll know of some treatment you haven't tried.
SUDER: Since the meld, I feel capable of controlling myself. Perhaps with your help I can learn to stay this way. It must be difficult for you.
TUVOK: Difficult?
SUDER: Knowing violence as I've known it.
TUVOK: I have studied violence for over a hundred years.
SUDER: Studying it and knowing it are two different things, aren't they. It's attractive, isn't it.
TUVOK: Attractive?
SUDER: Violence.
TUVOK: On the contrary. I find it disturbing.
SUDER: You're right, it is disturbing, never knowing when that impulse may come or whether or not you can control it when it does. You live on the edge of every moment, and yet, in it's own way, violence is attractive, too. Maybe because it doesn't require logic. Perhaps that's why it's so liberating. Ironic, isn't it, that I can share with you of all people what I have hidden from everyone all my life. Can we do it again, Tuvok?
TUVOK: Again?
SUDER: Meld.
TUVOK: That would not be advisable.
SUDER: I understand. Really, I do. I've thought about it a lot. In a way, a mind meld is almost an act of violence, isn't it.
TUVOK: I don't understand why you
SUDER: Penetration. Your will dissolving mine. The joining. It seems to me that a mind meld might be fatal if you lost control.

[Tuvok's quarters]
TUVOK: Computer, place level one security seals on this room.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Security seals in place.
TUVOK: Delete security clearance Tuvok one four nine four lambda.
COMPUTER: Specified security clearance deleted.
TUVOK: Please inform the Captain that I am no longer fit for duty.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.

[Outside Tuvok's quarters]
JANEWAY: Computer, lift the security seal from Lieutenant Tuvok's quarters. Wait here.

[Tuvok's quarters]
TUVOK: I would advise you not to enter, Captain.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
TUVOK: Please, do not come any closer.
JANEWAY: Talk to me.
TUVOK: I said, don't come any closer.
JANEWAY: We need to get you to Sickbay.
TUVOK: It would be safer for the crew if I were to remain in these quarters. I remind you, I am trained in the martial arts of many Alpha quadrant cultures. Sitting here, attempting to meditate, I have counted the number of ways I know of killing someone using just a finger, a hand, a foot. I had reached ninety four when you entered.
JANEWAY: The Doctor is fully versed in Vulcan medicine.
TUVOK: Again, for safety reasons, I recommend you sedate me before you initiate transport.

[Sickbay]
KES: Levels of neuropeptides in the limbic systems are down fifteen percent.
EMH: There's a definite neurochemical imbalance in the mesiofrontal cortex.
JANEWAY: Which means what?
EMH: That's where the Vulcan psycho-suppression systems are located. This may be the result of an incompatibility with the Betazoid telepathic neural center, I'm not sure.
EMH: Vulcan mind melds. Utter foolishness. Anybody with an ounce of sense wouldn't share his brain with someone else. Would you? I certainly wouldn't. And of course, when something goes wrong, and believe me it does more often than they'd like to admit, the first thing they call out is Doctor.
JANEWAY: Can you help him?
EMH: I wish I could tell you. There's a recommended course of treatments that should begin immediately.
JANEWAY: What does it involve?
EMH: First we have to take away his ability to control his violence. We do this in short bursts over a period of time and hope it provides a shock to his system. If it works, his own neural controls will take over again. I believe we're about ready. Revive him.
TUVOK: Something has changed.
EMH: We've temporarily removed all of your emotional suppression abilities, Lieutenant. How do you feel?
TUVOK: I feel.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, do you know where you are?
TUVOK: Of course I know where I am, Captain. I'm just not sure I know who I am.
EMH: Try to relax. The treatment still has about three minutes to go.
TUVOK: Oh, it must be working, because I feel very strong. Very powerful. Quite euphoric. This must be how my ancestors felt. Doctor, would you consider allowing me to remain this way for a while? It would be a valuable opportunity for me to study primal Vulcan behavior.
EMH: Sorry, I'm not prepared to do that. The course of treatment is very specific.
TUVOK: You are not invulnerable, hologram. A few well chosen commands to the computer and you will cease to exist.
KES: Two minutes, thirty seconds left.
TUVOK: You look shocked, Captain. You must be asking yourself, what if this doesn't work? What do we do then? I have an idea. I'll just stay in my quarters for the rest of the trip. I'll just relax and read, eat the ship's food, use the ship's energy, all in the comforts of my own room. Why, even Mister Suder and I could get together for a few hands of Cardassian pinochle once or twice a week. That is how we treat violent offenders on this ship, isn't it?
JANEWAY: You are not a violent offender, Tuvok.
TUVOK: I could be. Just like Suder. You know, Captain, I don't mind telling you something the other Tuvok never would. You are wrong. Sparing Suder's life is a sign of weakness. You disgust me. All you humans do. Admit it! Part of you feels as I do. Part of you wants him to die for what he did.
JANEWAY: No part of me feels that way.
TUVOK: Liar! He has killed and you know he deserves to die! On behalf of the victim's family, Captain, I beg you to reconsider. Give them the satisfaction of his execution. I have a radical suggestion, Captain. Release the forcefield and I'll kill him for you. Release the forcefield. My student, my protégée. there is so much for each of us to learn today, isn't there.
KES: You'll be all right, Tuvok. This'll be over in thirty seconds.
TUVOK: Listen to what I tell you. Release the forcefield.
KES: I'm sorry. I had them disable your telepathic abilities too. You can't reach me, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Release the forcefield!
EMH: Ten seconds. Five seconds.
EMH: It's over.
KES: He's lost consciousness.
EMH: He might be able to fool the sensors. Sedate him again. Computer, remove the forcefield.
JANEWAY: Help me get him back on the bed. How many treatments do you think will be necessary?
EMH: I wish I knew, Captain. In a sense, Mister Tuvok's mind is fighting a classic battle between good and evil. The battle may be won in a day, a year, or it may never be won.

[Brig]
SUDER: Tuvok? I wondered what happened to you. They wouldn't tell me anything.
TUVOK: There were some complications from the meld.
SUDER: I wondered about that.
TUVOK: I've been undergoing neurosynaptic therapy in Sickbay.
SUDER: It didn't work.
TUVOK: No.
SUDER: Have you come to kill me?
TUVOK: To execute you for your crime.
SUDER: To execute me. I see. And calling it that makes it more comfortable for you.
TUVOK: I will take no comfort in this.
SUDER: A most logical use of violence, to punish the violent.
SUDER: We both know that I am prepared to die, but are you prepared to kill?
TUVOK: It needs to be done.
SUDER: To release your violent impulses?
TUVOK: To serve justice.
SUDER: Justice or vengeance? Understand one thing, Tuvok. I can promise you this will not silent your demons. If you can't control the violence, the violence controls you. Be prepared to yield your entire being to it, to sacrifice your place in civilized life for you will no longer be a part of it, and there's no return.
TUVOK: I seek no return!
SUDER: Of course, you would not be able to live with yourself. Then we are both to die, and that will end the torment.
TUVOK: My mind to your mind. My thoughts to your thoughts. My mind to your mind, my thoughts to your thoughts.
SUDER: Crewman Suder to the Bridge.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Suder, what are you doing with a comm. badge?
SUDER: You'd better get down here, Chakotay. Lieutenant Tuvok needs help.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Ensign Suder has been incarcerated in secured quarters where he will likely spend the rest of our journey home. Lieutenant Tuvok remains under observation in Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: It may be hard for you to believe, Lieutenant, but what happened is encouraging. Your inability to complete the act of murder shows your suppression system in starting to function again. You're on your way back to being normal, although I'm not sure how the word normal applies to a species that suppresses all their emotions.
TUVOK: Captain, I must apologize for my inappropriate behavior.
JANEWAY: I'm just glad we have you back, Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: I was most insulting to you.
JANEWAY: Don't worry about it. I've been insulted before.
TUVOK: I hope you understand that I have always had the greatest respect for you as a Captain, and consider you a friend.
JANEWAY: That means a great deal to me. Enough said. Get some rest. Tuvok. No more mind melds without my permission. Understood?

[Sickbay]
WILDMAN: I've been considering naming him after my husband. It's been a tradition in his family for over five generations.
KES: I'm sure he'd be very pleased.
WILDMAN: My husband's name is Greskrendtregk. He's Ktarian.
EMH: Choosing a name is no easy matter. I speak from experience.
WILDMAN: Have you had any progress, Doctor?
EMH: I've reviewed historical, literary and anthropological databases from over five hundred worlds and have yet to find a suitable name. However, I may want to give some thought to Greskrendtregk.
WILDMAN: To be honest, I've been thinking of something simpler. What do you think of Cameron?
KES: I like it.
EMH: Cameron, from the ancient Celtic term for one whose nose is bent.
WILDMAN: What about Frederick?
EMH: Frederick. Very distinguished. However, it bears a close resemblance to a rather impolite term on the Bolian homeworld.
WILDMAN: It doesn't have to be a human name. I like Sural. It's Vulcan.
EMH: Yes, unfortunately it was also the name of a dictator on Sakura Prime, famed for beheading his rivals, and his parents.
KES: You won't have any objection to Benaren.
EMH: You're right. I've never heard that name before.
WILDMAN: I think it's lovely. Is it Ocampan?
KES: Benaren was my father's name. He was the greatest inspiration of my life.
JANEWAY (voiceover): All science officers. Please report to your stations.
EMH: Your scans look fine, Ensign. We'll see you in a week.
WILDMAN: Thank you. Greskrendtregk would make a good middle name, don't you think?
EMH: You never suggested your father's name to me.
KES: I thought you were only considering human names.
EMH: Ah. Well, you were mistaken.
KES: If you like Benaren there's no reason you can't use it too. I'm sure she won't mind.
EMH: Won't mind that I just usurped her baby's name the moment I heard it? Thank you, but no thank you.
KES: My uncle's name was Elrem. I once knew a boy named Tarrik.

[Bridge]
PARIS: There's not much left of whatever it was. From the amount of debris I'd guess it was a small ship, no bigger than a shuttlecraft.
KIM: I'm not reading any organic material in the debris field. It must have been an unmanned vessel. Possibly a probe.
JANEWAY: Any idea what happened to it?
TUVOK: The high residual energy signature indicates repeated weapons fire.
KIM: Captain, the wreckage is composed primarily of duritanium polyalloy.
JANEWAY: Duritanium?
CHAKOTAY: I haven't seen many weapons that could do that kind of damage to a duritanium hull.
JANEWAY: Transport some samples of the debris to Engineering for analysis.
CHAKOTAY: Continuous scans, Lieutenant. We don't want whoever did this to catch us by surprise.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Any conclusions?
CHAKOTAY: Afraid so.
TORRES: We've identified the signature left by the weapons fire. There's no question. It was Cardassian.
JANEWAY: Cardassian! Could Seska be responsible?
TORRES: No, Captain. I am.

[Briefing room]
TORRES: The probe was destroyed by an experimental Cardassian weapon from the Alpha quadrant.
PARIS: Sorry.
TORRES: I recognize it's signature because, because I know this weapon very well. Chakotay and I got our hands on it when we were fighting the Cardassians.
KIM: How did it get here?
CHAKOTAY: Probably the same way we did.
TORRES: The last time we saw it, it was heading in the same direction in the Badlands where the Caretaker picked us up.
CHAKOTAY: Originally the Cardassians sent this thing to destroy a Maquis munitions base. We nicknamed it Dreadnought. It's a self-guided tactical missile carrying a charge of a thousand kilos of matter and another thousand of antimatter.
TUVOK: Enough to destroy a small moon.
TORRES: Now add to that one of the most sophisticated computer systems I've ever seen. They made this missile adaptable, evasive, armed with it's own defensive weaponry. In other words, unstoppable.
NEELIX: So, how did you stop it?
CHAKOTAY: We didn't. It got through all our defenses. Worked like it was supposed to except for one minor detail. It didn't go off.
TORRES: Leave it to the Cardassians to build such an incredibly advanced tactical weapon and then arm the warhead with an old kinetic detonator.
CHAKOTAY: The missile skipped off into the atmosphere and quietly went into orbit.
TORRES: I got inside it and reprogrammed the computer. Hell, I didn't just reprogram it, I changed it's identity. I made it forget about being Cardassian. Now it was working for the Maquis.
CHAKOTAY: And we gave it a new mission. To destroy the Cardassian fuel depot on Aschelan Five. But it never made it out of the Badlands. We thought it had been destroyed in one of the plasma storms.
JANEWAY: So how do we stop this weapon before it causes any more damage?
TORRES: Dreadnaught masks its warp trail with a randomized EM field, but I can modify our navigational sensors to cut through that.
PARIS: And what are we going to do with it once we find it?
TORRES: I get back inside it. I know all the security codes. I installed them myself.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Paris can assist you with the navigational sensors. Keep me informed. Dismissed.
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant. I expect everyone to show up for meetings on time and properly dressed.
PARIS: Yes, sir.

[Engineering]
PARIS: There's still a lot of distortion in the upper frequencies. Better. Now let's try filtering out the ion radiation. B'Elanna? You must be really worried about catching this thing.
TORRES: Chakotay wasn't telling the whole truth. We didn't send Dreadnought on a mission against the Cardassians. I was the one who sent it, without asking him.
PARIS: You were afraid he'd say no.
TORRES: After I did it, he pulled me aside and I was ready to defend myself. I was so sure that I had anticipated everything that could possibly go wrong. I even programmed it to warn Federation ships to stay out of its way, in my own voice.
PARIS: Your voice?
TORRES: Listening to that Cardassian computer's voice was driving me crazy.
PARIS: I don't blame you.
TORRES: Anyway, Chakotay looked at me. I didn't know him very well yet. And all he said, in that damned soft voice of his was that I'd hurt him. That he thought he'd earned my trust and loyalty. I was so glad when it disappeared into the Badlands. I remember thinking, thank god, it's over. But it's not. And if anything happens here because of Dreadnought, it's my fault. No one else's.
PARIS: You took a risk. You were thinking like a Maquis. That was a whole different life.
TORRES: Tell me about it.
PARIS: You know, I've been surprised at how well you've been able to fit in here. A little envious too.
TORRES: Tom, what's been going on with you lately?
PARIS: Going on? How?
TORRES: People are starting to talk.
PARIS: Are they? People like who? Chakotay?
TORRES: No, I mean people. Like me. Like today. Look at yourself, coming to a briefing late. And is it true you had a fight with Lieutenant Rollins?
PARIS: The Lieutenant was unhappy that my conn. reports weren't punctuated properly, according to Starfleet protocol. I didn't like his attitude.
TORRES: Was he right about your reports?
PARIS: We're in the Delta quadrant, nowhere near Starfleet. What difference? Yeah, he was right. I'm the one who's been wrong. Wrong about a lot of things. Why don't we try running a multi-phasic sweep?

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, I'm picking up the trail again. New heading one nine six mark four.
PARIS: I'm on it.
JANEWAY: This course is erratic. Are we sure we're following a single warp trail?
TUVOK: Perhaps the missile's navigational system is malfunctioning. It's been operating for over a year, far longer than it was designed to function.
TORRES: No, this is deliberate. It's following one of the evasive patterns I programmed into it. It must have observed us following.
KIM: I think I've got it on long range sensors.
TORRES: No, that's only a sensor echo. Dreadnought's programmed to deflect it's up to one hundred thousand kilometers from it's true location. The next time you get a heading look for a brief surge in neutrino emissions within a one hundred thousand kilometer radius. That'll be the real thing.
KIM: Got it. Elevated neutrino levels. Locking in coordinates. It's within visual range.
CHAKOTAY: On screen.
TORRES: It's targeting scanners have been activated.
JANEWAY: What's wrong?
CHAKOTAY: It's not supposed to do that until it's locked onto it's final target.
TORRES: It's heading for a planet in a system over ten light years away. At its current speed, it'll get there in about three weeks.
CHAKOTAY: The planet is Class M. I'm reading several heavily populated areas.

[Secret location]
JONAS: Seska will want to know about this Cardassian missile immediately.
LORRUM (screen): Mister Jonas, your enthusiasm is appreciated, but I would prefer to know more about it before I bring it to Maje Culluh's attention.
JONAS: If I could just talk to Seska.
LORRUM (screen): As I explained, I have now been assigned to be your control.
JONAS: Look, has she been made aware how much I've been helping you?
LORRUM (screen): What the Maje chooses to share with her is none of my concern, but you are in good hands, my friend. Now tell me more about this weapon your ship has found.
JONAS: Look, all you need to tell Seska is that this missile is better armed than the entire Kazon-Nistrim sect.
LORRUM (screen): That's very interesting. What more can you tell me that I can bring to my
JONAS: Someone's about to make a subspace transmission. They may be able to detect our comm. link. I have to terminate.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: My name is Kathryn Janeway, Captain of the Federation Starship Voyager.
KELLAN (screen): First Minister Kellan, Captain. What is it you want.
JANEWAY: Our scans of your world suggest you have long range tracking abilities.
KELLAN (screen): We have been observing your course for the last two days.
JANEWAY: Have you also been able to detect the missile on a parallel course off our starboard bow?
KELLAN (screen): We haven't been able to identify what it is, but yes.
JANEWAY: You have the right to know, First Minister, that this missile is carrying a warhead with a significant destructive force that
KELLAN (screen): Is this some sort of threat, Captain?
JANEWAY: On the contrary. We want to help.
KELLAN (screen): I find that hard to believe. Your reputation precedes you, Captain. We've been told that you've threatened many races since your arrival in this quadrant.
JANEWAY: First Minister, we're aware the Kazon have been telling that to people. They'd like to prevent us from making allies. But I assure you, you've been misled.
KELLAN (screen): And yet here you are, sending this missile towards us.
JANEWAY: The missile arrived here from our quadrant due to a very unusual accident. We haven't been able to determine yet why it chose Rakosa as it's target, but my Chief Engineer is preparing to disarm it before it reaches you.
KELLAN (screen): Perhaps you are telling me this in order to delay our defensive response.
JANEWAY: I could have maintained communication silence and not given you any warning at all.
KELLAN (screen): That's true. Nevertheless, be aware that I am placing our defense force on alert.
JANEWAY: I'd do the same in your place.
KELLAN (screen): We will be watching your progress closely.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Torres, how soon will you be ready

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY (voiceover): To transport?
TORRES: Dreadnought's shields have responded to my codes. I'm ready now, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Proceed.
TORRES: Energize.

[Dreadnought]
DREADNOUGHT: Authorized entry detected. Initiating DNA scan. B'Elanna Torres confirmed. Hello, B'Elanna. Your last systems access was on stardate 47582. Current date is 49447. Time zero eight forty hours. Did you sleep well last night?
TORRES: Not so well, to tell you the truth. Activate programr interface.
DREADNOUGHT: Your presence was not anticipated during the mission. Please explain.
TORRES: Something's gone wrong with your programming, Dreadnought. Display targeting schematic.
DREADNOUGHT: A self-diagnostic has been conducted every fourteen hours. No malfunctions have been detected.
TORRES: Maybe there's something wrong with your diagnostic systems too. Identify target.
DREADNOUGHT: Aschelan Five.
TORRES: What targeting parameters are you using?
DREADNOUGHT: Size. Radiothermic signature. Atmospheric composition. Relative
TORRES: Enough. Dreadnought, you're no where near Aschelan Five.
DREADNOUGHT: Based on available data, you are mistaken, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Let me check out your navigational systems.
DREADNOUGHT: Access to primary navigational systems is denied at stage three alert status.
TORRES: That was my idea, wasn't it.
DREADNOUGHT: Affirmative.
TORRES: Okay, We'll have to go at this in a different way then, won't we. Dreadnought, do you know what happened to you the day after my last systems access?
DREADNOUGHT: Please be more specific.
TORRES: Did you encounter a coherent tetryon beam?
DREADNOUGHT: Confirmed. All attempts to avoid the phenomenon failed.
TORRES: That beam carried you into the Delta quadrant. I'm not surprised it damaged your sensors. Dreadnought, reinitialize your navigational systems. Computer.
DREADNOUGHT: Reinitialisation sequence is complete.
TORRES: Okay. Now verify our current position.
DREADNOUGHT: Based on relative position to known astronomical markers, this vessel is currently located in the Delta quadrant.
TORRES: And is Aschelan Five located in the Delta quadrant?
DREADNOUGHT: Negative.
TORRES: Then reconfirm your target lock.
DREADNOUGHT: Unable to verify. Standing down from stage three. Target lock has been deactivated. Reestablishing stage four.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Torres.
TORRES: Go ahead Captain.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We're showing a shut down of all your engines. Can you confirm that?
TORRES (voiceover): That

[Dreadnought]
TORRES: And more. I'll be ready to transport back in a few minutes.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Acknowledged. Good work, B'Elanna. Janeway out.
TORRES: Dreadnought, return to stage five. Initiate power save program.
DREADNOUGHT: Acknowledged. Goodnight, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Sweet dreams.

[Ready Room]
CHAKOTAY: The Dreadnought's quantum torpedoes could be modified to be compatible with our launchers.
JANEWAY: What about it's engine components?
TORRES: Easily converted to Starfleet specs. We'll have spare parts for years.
CHAKOTAY: We should also download some files from the computer core.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, you can begin the salvage operation first thing in the
PARIS (voiceover): Paris to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Yes, Lieutenant.
PARIS (voiceover): The missile just took off. It's going into warp.
JANEWAY: Stay with it, Tom.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Engaging warp drive.
TORRES: This isn't possible. When I left it was completely shut down.
CHAKOTAY: We're back on a heading to Rakosa Five.
PARIS: It's increasing speed to warp nine.
CHAKOTAY: At this rate it'll reach the planet in fifty one hours.
PARIS: It's still on course for the planet at warp nine.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, bring us within ten kilometers. Maintain a parallel position. Bridge to Torres. Your status?
TORRES (voiceover): I don't understand it, Captain.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: Dreadnought's shields are not recognizing my security code any more. We can't initiate transport.
JANEWAY (voiceover): You'd better get back up here, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, let's take a shot at disabling its drive systems. Ready photons. Red alert.
CHAKOTAY: Torres programmed the missile's shields to adjust to all known weapons, even Starfleet's.
JANEWAY: Voyager wasn't in service when she did it. We're equipped with type six photon torpedoes. They may just get through. Fire.
TUVOK: No discernable damage, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: It must have scanned our weapons, adapted its shields.
PARIS: Captain, it's maintaining course and speed.
KIM: We're being hailed by the missile.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
DREADNOUGHT (voiceover): Unidentified Federation ship. Although this vessel is Cardassian it has been appropriated by the Maquis. Please stand down your weapons.
JANEWAY: You stand down your weapons and I'll stand down mine.
DREADNOUGHT (voiceover): You are interfering with a tactical mission against Cardassian aggressors. This vessel is programmed to respond with all necessary force to prevent any disruption to its mission.
TORRES: Dreadnought, why have you resumed course?
DREADNOUGHT (voiceover): Hello B'Elanna. Course was resumed once your safe departure from this vessel was confirmed. It was a necessary response to your deception.
TORRES: My deception?
DREADNOUGHT (voiceover): You are participating in the Delta quadrant deception.
JANEWAY: Explain, Dreadnought.
DREADNOUGHT (voiceover): False information has been entered into Dreadnought's navigational sensor array.
PARIS: When a bomb starts talking about itself in the third person, I get worried.
TORRES: Why would I enter false information?
DREADNOUGHT (voiceover): Probability assessment indicates you are being coerced by Cardassian forces.
JANEWAY: You've already identified Voyager as a Federation ship, Dreadnought. Your scanners must indicate this is not a Cardassian crew.
DREADNOUGHT (voiceover): Probability assessment indicates you are operating within the parameters of the Cardassian Federation Alliance, as described in the treaty of 2367. A treaty rejected by the Maquis.
TORRES: So when I was just over there and you shut yourself off, you were lying to me?
DREADNOUGHT (voiceover): Acknowledged.
TORRES: I never taught it to do that.
DREADNOUGHT (voiceover): That is not correct, B'Elanna. Your tactical subroutine instructed Dreadnought to prepare responses for thirty nine potential Cardassian threats. The possibility of your capture and coercion was number seven.
JANEWAY: Dreadnought, is there anyway we can prove to you you are actually in the Delta quadrant. That this is not a deception.
DREADNOUGHT (voiceover): The probability of being in the Delta quadrant, seventy five thousand light years from last confirmed location, is negligible. The target is located in the Alpha quadrant. Target lock has been established. There will be no further warnings. Terminating communications link.
TORRES: The one possible vulnerability I remember is in the thoron shock emitter. If we can get it to fire at full power, that should destabilize the reactor core for thirty seconds. A single sustained tachyon beam might just penetrate that core and destroy it.
JANEWAY: What will it take to provoke Dreadnought into firing?
TORRES: It shouldn't be that difficult. Once we go after it with an all-out assault, the emitter should fire.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, set your target. Ready photons.
TUVOK: Ready Captain.
JANEWAY: Fire.
TUVOK: The missile's thoron shock emitter has fired.
JANEWAY: Initiate the tachyon beam.
TUVOK: We have penetrated its shields. Direct hit to the core.
KIM: Reading an energy build up in it's reactor. It should overload in about thirty seconds. Wait a minute. There's a plasma surge coming from it's core. What the hell?
JANEWAY: Report!
KIM: It sent a plasma burst along the tachyon beam into our main power system. We've got EPS relays burnt out all over the ship.
PARIS: I'm not getting any response from the warp or impulse drives. Even the maneuvering thrusters are out.
TUVOK: The missile was not significantly damaged. It has maintained its course for Rakosa.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Our engines will be back online in less than an hour, First Minister, then we'll try again.
KELLAN (screen): Did you sustain any casualties, Captain?
JANEWAY: A few. A broken arm, a broken leg, fortunately that's all.
KELLAN (screen): I'm pleased to hear that. We are projecting casualties at two million, if the worst occurs. I have deployed our fleet to intercept this missile in a matter of hours.
JANEWAY: First Minister, we've analyzed your offensive capabilities, and they're no match for what you're facing. You must have realized that yourself.
KELLAN (screen): And what would you have me do? Sit here and wait for death to fall from the sky? I'm sorry. We haven't had much sleep. We weren't prepared for anything like this. We are not a war-like race. We haven't devoted our resources to building weapons like yours.
JANEWAY: First Minister
KELLAN (screen): Please, I've always hated that title. My name is Kellan. I prefer that.
JANEWAY: Our Chief Engineer is trying to return to the missile's control room. She's still our best chance at disarming it. There's no reason to send your fleet on a hopeless mission.
KELLAN (screen): I appreciate your efforts, truly, but the decision has been made. We have some good pilots, Captain. Perhaps they will surprise you.

[Transporter room]
KIM: Blocked again.
TORRES: We don't have time for this.
KIM: Don't worry, we'll find a way to get you back over there.
TORRES: We wouldn't have to if I'd done my job right the first time.
KIM: You couldn't expect to guess every move it made.
TORRES: Why not? Dreadnought seems pretty good at guessing mine.
KIM: It's only as smart as you made it.
TORRES: I'm not so sure about that, Harry. It's programs are adaptive and it's been accumulating data all this time. It spends every minute of every day thinking about new strategies, new probabilities.
KIM: And I bet it doesn't spend much time worrying about what it could have done differently.
TORRES: All right, Starfleet, let's give it another try.

[Dreadnought]
DREADNOUGHT: Unauthorized entry detected. Initiating DNA scan. Hello B'Elanna. Your last systems access was today at zero eight forty hours. Current time is nineteen thirty one hours. Have you had a pleasant day?
TORRES: Oh, yeah. Swell day.
DREADNOUGHT: Access to programr interface has been denied.
DREADNOUGHT: Access to circuit pathways has been denied. Be advised that the intensity of the shock will increase if you attempt to open the panel again.
TORRES: I'm disappointed in you, Dreadnought. If I really was a Cardassian agent, you should have killed me with the first charge.
DREADNOUGHT: Probability assessment indicates that you are being coerced by Cardassian forces.
TORRES: Somehow I expected you to put up more of a fight. Computer?
DREADNOUGHT: Stage two alert has been activated.
TORRES: Tell me what's happening.
DREADNOUGHT: There are fifteen priority targets approaching. All weapon systems at full readiness. Speed, full impulse.
TORRES: The Rakosan fleet.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Hail the lead ship.
KIM: Channel open, Captain. Audio only.
JANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway on Voyager. I urge you to break off your attack. One of my crew members is aboard the missile.
RAKOSAN (voiceover): You'd better get your crewman out, Captain. We estimate time to intercept, ninety seconds.
JANEWAY: We're still attempting to disarm its weapons.
RAKOSAN (voiceover): My orders are clear. You'll have to talk to my superiors back home. Rakosa One, out.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Torres.
TORRES (voiceover): Yes Captain.
JANEWAY: The Rakosan fleet is preparing to attack.
TORRES (voiceover): Captain, don't beam me out. I may not be able to transport back here again.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant.
TORRES (voiceover): I'm making progress.

[Dreadnought]
TORRES: The Rakosan ships have created a diversion. I've already used it to disarm the security codes on board. Now, if I can just get to the central processor, I can disable the entire system.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: All right. We'll try to keep a transporter lock on you. Janeway out.
TUVOK: The Rakosan attack is commencing, Captain.
JANEWAY: Move us into weapons range, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Give them some cover fire. Red alert.
TUVOK: Firing phasers.

[Dreadnought]
DREADNOUGHT: All command functions have been rerouted through protected back-up circuits, B'Elanna. Your attempt to compromise control has been blocked.
TORRES: Those ships aren't your enemy. They are not Cardassian. Can't you recognize that?
DREADNOUGHT: This vessel is programmed to respond with all necessary force to prevent any disruption to it's mission.

[Bridge]
KIM: Shields are holding.
TUVOK: We are drawing minimal fire from the missile. It's primary weapons systems are focused on the Rakosan vessel.
PARIS: Another group of fighters are starting an attack run.
JANEWAY: We've got to draw more of the missile's fire. Make Voyager a more serious threat, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Shields at forty percent.
KIM: Damage reported on decks three and four. Repair crews responding.
PARIS: The Rakosan vessels are withdrawing, Captain.
JANEWAY: Good. Move us out of range of the plasma wave. Janeway to Torres.
TORRES (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: The Rakosan ships have retreated. We have one hour and nine minutes

[Dreadnought]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Until the missile reaches the planet. Any progress?
TORRES: Dreadnought's created back-up systems to replace the ones I tried to disable.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Do you have any other ideas?
TORRES: I'm reluctant to discuss them in present company, but could you send over a. Captain?
DREADNOUGHT: Communications have been terminated. Transporter lock has also been disengaged.
TORRES: What took you so long?
DREADNOUGHT: There was a tactical advantage in monitoring your ship's communications until this time.
TORRES: So, it's just you and me now.
DREADNOUGHT: You are accessing the detonation control circuit. Probability assessment indicates you are attempting to detonate the explosive before it reaches its target.
TORRES: Now, that wouldn't make much sense, would it? I'd be killing myself in the process.
DREADNOUGHT: Probability assessment indicates you are attempting to detonate the explosive before it reaches its target.
TORRES: If I'm being coerced by Cardassians, why would I be willing to sacrifice myself for them? Answer that one.
DREADNOUGHT: Unable to respond. Reassessing probabilities.
TORRES: Ah, ha. Gotcha. Why don't we reassess those probabilities together, okay? Remember how we used to play hypothetical games?
DREADNOUGHT: Affirmative.
TORRES: Let's play one now. Here's a hypothetical situation for you. Suppose I've been telling you the truth all along, and you really are in the Delta quadrant.
DREADNOUGHT: Probability of being in the Delta quadrant, seventy five thousand light years from last confirmed location, is negligible.
TORRES: Hypothetical, Dreadnought. It's a game, remember? Assume it's true for a moment.
DREADNOUGHT: Assumption entered.
TORRES: And we're heading for the wrong target.
DREADNOUGHT: Assumption entered.
TORRES: Millions of innocent people about to die when you detonate.
DREADNOUGHT: Assumption entered.
TORRES: Now, explain to me how this might happen.
DREADNOUGHT: If key sensor programs were damaged or deleted, databanks would be compromised.
TORRES: Just for the fun of it, let's have a look at those databanks. See if anything looks at all compromised.
TORRES: Is this a complete file directory? There seem to be a few missing.
DREADNOUGHT: Files containing information about the weapons or tactical systems are not necessary to verify sensor accuracy.
TORRES: Oh, I'm hurt you don't trust me. Hold on, pause the display. What's that? Computer, identify the Cardassian file on screen.
DREADNOUGHT: Unable to identify.
TORRES: Looks like a back-up file. Computer, when was this file created?
DREADNOUGHT: Stardate 46437.5
TORRES: I believe that was before you and I ever met.
DREADNOUGHT: Hypothetical game terminated. Probability reassessment complete.
TORRES: A new conclusion?
DREADNOUGHT: Affirmative. Probability of being in the Delta quadrant remains negligible. When that option is rejected, new probability assessment indicates that you have changed loyalties, B'Elanna. You are now cooperating with the Cardassian Federation Alliance as described in the treaty of 2367, a treaty which has been rejected by the Maquis.
TORRES: Dreadnought.
DREADNOUGHT: Humanoid life support aboard this vessel has been terminated. Approaching target at full impulse. Stage one alert has been activated. Initiating final detonation sequence.

[Ready room]
KELLAN (screen): People are crowding every port trying to get off the eastern continent. There aren't enough ships.
JANEWAY: Kellan, there are still forty one minutes for us to prevent this.
KELLAN (screen): What can be done in forty one minutes?
JANEWAY: I'm prepared to use this ship to detonate the warhead before the missile reaches you.
KELLAN (screen): Use your ship? To collide with it?
JANEWAY: Something like that.
KELLAN (screen): Do you really think that would work?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure.
KELLAN (screen): You would sacrifice yourselves to benefit a people you didn't even know two days ago?
JANEWAY: To save two million lives? That's not a hard decision.
KELLAN (screen): Your reputation in this quadrant isn't deserved, Captain. For what it's worth, you've made a friend here.
JANEWAY: I'm still hoping we'll have a chance to celebrate this new friendship together.

[Dreadnought]
DREADNOUGHT: All key systems have been secured. You will not gain access.
TORRES: I'm not interested in your key systems anymore, Dreadnought.
DREADNOUGHT: That is an unlikely assertion, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Seriously. Check for yourself.
DREADNOUGHT: You are attempting to access the obsolete Cardassian file. Why?
TORRES: Oh, just killing time.
DREADNOUGHT: Life support has been terminated. It is advisable for you to return to your ship.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Gentlemen, I believe our best chance at stopping Dreadnought now is to set off a large antimatter explosion directly in it's path.
CHAKOTAY: To work, it would take more energy than all of our photons put together.
TUVOK: Or more to the point, it would take a warp core breach.
JANEWAY: You'll be in charge of the evacuation, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not leaving you on the ship.
JANEWAY: Captain's prerogative. Get the rest of the crew to the escape pods. I'll send the senior officers to join you in a few minutes. We don't have time to debate this, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Everyone except senior officers, with me.
JANEWAY: Computer, initiate the self-destruct sequence. Authorisation Janeway pi one one zero. Set it at twenty minutes.
COMPUTER: Warning, self-destruct sequence has been initiated. Warp core overload in twenty minutes.

[Dreadnought]
COMPUTER: Cardassian ATR4107 attempting to activate systems.
TORRES: I never thought I'd be glad to hear that voice again.
DREADNOUGHT: Voice analyzer functioning. Unable to identify.
COMPUTER: Attempting to activate systems.
DREADNOUGHT: No additional presence detected.
TORRES: Check those diagnostics, Dreadnought. You're talking to yourself. I believe you're having an identity crisis.
COMPUTER: Accessing central processor memory.
DREADNOUGHT: Engaging counter-virus response program.
COMPUTER: Attempting to over-ride program.
TORRES: Computer, identify the target.
COMPUTER: The Maquis munitions base on Planetoid Alpha four four one
DREADNOUGHT: The Cardassian depot on Aschelan Five.
COMPUTER: Malfunction detected in the targeting system. Attempting to correct.
DREADNOUGHT: Negative. Target lock has been confirmed. The Maquis are now in control of this weapon. The original targeting parameters have been replaced with those of this target. The countdown for the detonation sequence will continue. Aschelan Five will be destroyed. Access to the navigational system is denied. All critical pathways have been re-routed through protected backup systems. Security lockout in function. All overrides will be blocked. Counter virus response. All systems. Attempting.
COMPUTER: This target does not conform to established targeting parameters. The detonation sequence cannot proceed without proper target identification. Ejecting antimatter pod. Emergency ejection system has failed. Attempting to re-initialize all key systems. Accessing backup systems. Unable to access. Enable backup overrides. Command pathways. The central processor has been routed. Attempting.
TORRES: Yes.

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Warning. Self destruct sequence has been initiated. Warp core overload in eleven minutes.
KIM: Captain, I've broken through the interference. I'm not sure how. We have communications. Checking on transporter signal. I have a lock on her.
JANEWAY: Voyager to Torres.
TORRES (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: I need to get you out of there. We're abandoning Voyager. I'm going to overload the

[Dreadnought core]
JANEWAY (voiceover): warp core in the missile's flight path.
TORRES: I may be able to detonate the warhead from here

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): By breaching the containment field.
JANEWAY: Can you get access to the core?
TORRES (voiceover): I'm already in it. I'm using

[Dreadnought core]
TORRES: My phaser to burn through the magnetic constrictor casing now.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Are you all right, B'Elanna?
TORRES (voiceover): Fine.

[Dreadnought]
TORRES: The air's just a little thin in here.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Keep me advised.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Janeway out. Mister Kim, transfer control to the conn. and report to your escape pod.
KIM: Captain.
JANEWAY: That's a direct order to all of you. Mister Paris, I'm relieving you. Now!
PARIS: The starboard thrusters are a little sluggish. Ease into them.
JANEWAY: Understood.
PARIS: Captain, thanks for everything.
COMPUTER: Warning. Self-destruct sequence has been initiated. Warp core overload in seven minutes.
JANEWAY: You too, Tuvok.
TUVOK: It is logical to have a second in command in case you are injured and unable to complete the mission, Captain. I request permission to remain.
JANEWAY: Permission granted.

[Dreadnought core]
DREADNOUGHT: Hello, B'Elanna. The Cardassian virus has been neutralized.
TORRES: Good for you.
DREADNOUGHT: Containment field integrity at forty percent and falling.
TORRES: Estimated time to breach.
DREADNOUGHT: This vessel is programmed to respond with all necessary force to prevent any disruption to its mission.
TORRES: Unless I'm mistaken, you're out of options, Dreadnought.
DREADNOUGHT: Analysis of your vital signs suggests you are about to lose consciousness, B'Elanna.
TORRES: I'm not going anywhere until I'm finished.
DREADNOUGHT: When you cease your efforts to breach the containment field, life support will be restored.
TORRES: No deal.

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Warning. Self destruct sequence has been initiated. Warp core overload in three minutes.
JANEWAY: Increasing velocity. Preparing to adjust our heading to intercept.

[Dreadnought core]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Torres.
TORRES: Yes.
JANEWAY (voiceover): This is your last chance

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: This is your last chance to get back here, B'Elanna. I have to launch the last escape pods.

[Dreadnought core]
TORRES: I understand, Captain. I'm almost finished. Let me stay.

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Warning. Self destruct sequence has been initiated. Warp core overload in two minutes.

[Dreadnought core]
DREADNOUGHT: Containment field at twenty percent and falling. Perhaps your Delta quadrant hypothesis deserves further consideration.
TORRES: Nice try. Who would have thought two years ago, after all those weeks we spent together perfecting your program, that we'd end up out here trying to kill each other.
DREADNOUGHT: Probability assessment did not anticipate this outcome.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The missile's containment field is collapsing.
JANEWAY: Beam her back, now. Hang on!
COMPUTER: Warning. Self destruct sequence has been initiated. Warp core overload in one minute.
JANEWAY: Computer, terminate self destruct sequence. Authorisation Janeway pi one one zero.
COMPUTER: Confirmed. Sequence terminated.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Torres. B'Elanna, are you
EMH (voiceover): She's here in Sickbay, Captain. Please turn to your Emergency Medical Holographic channel.
JANEWAY: Doctor, I forgot about you.
EMH (screen): How flattering. I wanted to advise you that I took the liberty of beaming Lieutenant Torres

[Sickbay]
EMH: From the Transporter room to Sickbay. She is somewhat singed around the edges but should make a complete recovery.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Very good, Doctor. Janeway out. Mister Tuvok, prepare to retrieve our escape pods. Let's bring our crew home.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: It's trajectory is erratic, and our sensors aren't detecting any stellar or planetary gravitational fields that could account for its motion.
JANEWAY: Then you're saying it isn't a comet.
CHAKOTAY: And yet it looks, feels, and tastes just like a comet.
JANEWAY: Well, there's a slight chance that there are magnetodynamic forces acting on the comet that are too subtle for our sensors to detect. Or it might be something we've never encountered before. B'Elanna, go down to Transporter room two. Let's beam aboard a sample for examination.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Harry, see if you can lock on to a core fragment.
KIM: Having no trouble penetrating the crust, Captain.

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Torres. We're ready when you are, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Setting up a class three containment field, Captain. Field in place.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Commence transport.
TORRES: Energizing.
QUINN: Hello. My name is Q.
TORRES: Torres to Janeway. You'd better get down here, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Problem, Lieutenant?
TORRES: Yes, ma'am. That transport from the comet? It brought a man aboard. He says his name is Q.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Red alert. I'll be right down.

[Transporter room]
QUINN: Oh, please don't bother, Captain. Let me take you to lunch instead.

[Mess hall]
QUINN: What a pleasure it is to meet you. Oh, am I doing this right? It's been so long time since I've had the opportunity to greet anyone. Oh, here, take a seat. Allow me to make the setting more appropriate.
JANEWAY: My name is Kathryn Janeway, Captain of the Federation
QUINN: The Federation Starship Voyager. Yes, yes, I know all that. Look, Welsh rarebit like your grandfather used to make.
NEELIX: Rabbit? She never told me she likes rabbits. What is a rabbit anyway? Is this some new chef she's interviewing?
QUINN: Please, eat. It's the least I can do to express my appreciation.
JANEWAY: Appreciation for what?
QUINN: For letting me out of my captivity.
JANEWAY: You were being held against your will, inside the comet?
QUINN: In a manner of speaking. And you, all of you. You're mortals, aren't you?
JANEWAY: Who was holding you prisoner?
QUINN: And you only live for nine years.
KES: That's right.
QUINN: Oh, how I envy you.
KES: Why is that?
QUINN: Because the one thing I want more than any other, is to die.
JANEWAY: Look, I don't know what you want here, but I know who you are. Every captain in Starfleet has been briefed about your appearances on the Enterprise, and I warn you
QUINN: My appearances? Oh, you've mistaken me for. Oh, well, no matter, I really must get on with my business before the others realize I'm here. When someone asks you about me, and they will, would you tell them I said. You know, I've had three hundred years to think of appropriate last words. I wanted something memorable, you know? Quotable. Would you tell them I said, I die not for myself but for you. I know. I know. Enigmatic. Provocative. They'll understand. Well, goodbye to you all. Many thanks. Here's the end of me.
QUINN: Oh, dear. That's not right.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to Janeway. All the men have disappeared.
JANEWAY: I'm aware of it, Lieutenant. Report to the Bridge. Janeway out. Bring them back. Now.
QUINN: Oh. Oh, of course. Of course. I'm a little out of practice. Well, that's that. I'm afraid they're gone.
JANEWAY: Gone? Where?
QUINN: Just gone. Oh, I apologize for the inconvenience.

[Bridge]
QUINN: Well, good luck to you all. I really have to be going now.
JANEWAY: Return my crew!
QUINN: I, I'm not sure how. Humans. Humans. Who would have more recent experience with humans?
Q: What have you done now, Q? Well, now, isn't this just fine. Humans aren't supposed to be in this quadrant for another hundred years.
QUINN: I didn't bring them here. Nothing to do with me.
Q: How did you get out, Q?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid we're responsible for that.
Q: Oh, well, I guess that's what we get for having a woman in the captain's seat. You know, I was betting that Riker would get this command.
JANEWAY: May I assume you're the Q I've heard so much about?
Q: Have you heard about little me? Oh, do tell. Has Jean-Luc been whispering about me behind my back? Say, is this the ship of the Valkyries, or have you human women finally done away with your men altogether?
QUINN: There was a slight accident.
Q: A slight accident. Oh, let me guess. You were trying to commit suicide. Now you see why we've locked him up for the last three hundred years.
Q: Facial art. Ooo, how very wilderness of you.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
Q: All right, Q, we should be going.
QUINN: I'm not leaving. Captain Janeway, I demand asylum.
Q: This is a joke.
QUINN: No it isn't. I am officially asking you, Captain, to grant me asylum and give me protection from my enemies, which is him.
Q: You would ask these puny humans to protect you from me? Fat chance.
JANEWAY: What did you do to him?
QUINN: Nothing. He's still there in the twenty fourth century. I just took the rest of us to an old hiding place of mine.
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: Captain, there are no stars outside.
QUINN: Well, that's partially accurate. Actually, there's no universe outside.
JANEWAY: On screen. Commander?
CHAKOTAY: I'm showing a large build-up of baryonic particles.
QUINN: Perfectly normal.
TUVOK: Captain, based on our readings, it appears we've been transported back in time to the birth of the universe.
QUINN: Very old hiding place.
Q: Oh, I know all the hiding places, Q. I hid here from the Continuum myself once.
TORRES: This ship will not survive the formation of the cosmos.
Q: Yes, but just think of the honor of having your DNA spread from one corner of the universe to the other. Why, you could be the origin of the humanoid form.
JANEWAY: Q, either Q, get us out of here.
Q: You heard the lady, Q. Back to your cell.
PARIS: We're under attack.
CHAKOTAY: By a ship?
PARIS: By, by, I'm not sure what they are.
KIM: Captain, I don't believe this, but according to my readings, we're being attacked by protons. We've been reduced to subatomic proportions.
QUINN: He'll never find us here.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, see if you can release a positive ion charge to repel them.
Q: Ready or not, here I am.
JANEWAY: Oh, now what?
PARIS: Checking. We seem to be tethered to some kind of large plant.
JANEWAY: Let's see it. Computer, I need a wider angle.
Q (screen): You can't hide from me, Q.
QUINN: And you can't take me by force. I'll stalemate you for eternity, if I have to.
JANEWAY: The hell you will. The vaunted Q Continuum. Self-anointed guardians of the universe. How dare you come aboard this ship and endanger this crew with your personal tug of war.
Q (screen): Did anyone ever tell you you're angry when you're beautiful?
PARIS: We're back where we started from, Captain.
QUINN: It's doesn't matter. I'm not going into that cell.
Q: How would you like to spend eternity as a Gorokian midwife toad.
QUINN: Just try it.
JANEWAY: Stop! You want asylum? Fine. We'll have a hearing.
Q: A hearing? You would have me put his future in your delicate little hands? Oh, so touchably soft. What is your secret, dear?
JANEWAY: When the captain of a Starfleet vessel receives an official request for asylum, there is a clear procedure to follow. I suggest to end your deadlock, and to save my ship, that we follow it to the letter.
Q: Well, this could go on for a millennium or two, I suppose. All right, I accept on behalf of the Continuum on one condition. If you rule in our favor, Q agrees to return to his confinement.
QUINN: I have a condition of my own. If you rule in my favor, then the Continuum must grant me mortality.
Q: Why? So you can kill yourself?
QUINN: Exactly.
Q: Accepted. Well, this is going to make for an amusing diversion. Will you send him to prison for eternity or will you assist in his suicide plan? That's a toughie, but that's why they made you captain, isn't it? To handle the real tough ones? My, my. Now I guess now we get to find out whether the pants really fit.

[Tuvok's office]
QUINN: Am I interrupting anything?
TUVOK: I am curious. Have the Q always had an absence of manners, or is it the result of some natural evolutionary process that comes with omnipotence?
QUINN: What? Oh, you mean, just popping in whenever we feel like it.
TUVOK: That is one relevant example.
QUINN: I apologize. At some point along the way, I guess we just stopped thinking about the little niceties.
TUVOK: So it seems.
QUINN: But you mustn't think of us as omnipotent, no matter what the Continuum would like you to believe. You and your ship seem incredibly powerful to lifeforms without your technical expertise. It's no different with us. We may appear omnipotent to you, but believe me, we're not.
TUVOK: Intriguing. Just what vulnerabilities do the Q have?
QUINN: Always looking for the tactical advantage, Mister Tuvok. Very good. As a matter of fact, that's why I've come to see you. In a way, our vulnerability is what this is all about. As the Q have evolved, we've sacrificed many things along the way. Not just manners, but mortality, and a sense of purpose, and a desire for change, and a capacity to grow. Every loss is a new vulnerability, wouldn't you say?
TUVOK: Why are you telling me this?
QUINN: Because I want you to represent me in the hearing.
TUVOK: Me? I have no legal expertise.
QUINN: But I need someone who understands Federation asylum practices. Besides, Vulcans approve of suicide.
TUVOK: It is true that Vulcans who reach a certain infirmity with age, do practice ritual suicides. Nevertheless, I fail to see how that fact would be meaningful in this circumstance.
QUINN: I have the right to counsel, Mister Tuvok. Will you assist me?

[Hearing room]
JANEWAY: Let me begin by stating clearly that I expect all parties to act appropriately and with respect for these proceedings. I will not have this hearing turned into a circus, is that clear? Is that clear, Q?
Q: Madam Captain, we are dealing here with an issue of the greatest importance to the Q Continuum. I assure you we take this matter very seriously.
JANEWAY: Thank you. And please don't call me Madam Captain. Since you've made it clear that your asylum would lead to suicide, you place me in a difficult position.
QUINN: I understand, Captain.
JANEWAY: May I ask you why you want to commit suicide?
QUINN: As difficult as it is for you to imagine, for me, immortality is impossible to endure any longer. In the Continuum, an individual has an obligation to be responsible to the path his life will follow.
Q: His life will follow. Emphasize life.
QUINN: I never yielded that obligation to the Continuum. If the path I choose leads to death, what right have they to interfere?
Q: He's putting his selfish wishes above the welfare of everyone else.
QUINN: And if I don't agree with the majority, I'm to be locked up for eternity.
Q: You would not be confined if you were not intent on harming yourself. With your permission, Captain, I would like to call an expert on the Continuum to discuss the implications of the decision to be made.
JANEWAY: Proceed.
Q: I call myself to the stand.
Q2: Ta-da!
Q: Thank you for coming. It's a rare honor to have someone of your reputation and accomplishment with us today.
Q2: Thank you.
Q: Tell me, what would be the impact of a Q suicide?
Q2: Oh, it would be an interruption to the Continuum. It would change the very nature of Q.
JANEWAY: Can you be more specific?
Q2: No, because we're not even sure what the end result would be. His suicide could have all sorts of unknown consequences to the Continuum.
QUINN: Precisely! It would force the Q to deal with the unknown for the first time since the New Era began. They're afraid of me because they're afraid of the unknown.
Q: How would you characterize his remarks?
Q2: No Q has ever tried to commit suicide. Immortality is one of the defining qualities of being a Q. By every measure of the Continuum, his remarks would have to be considered as mentally unbalanced.
Q: Mentally unbalanced. And no civilized people in the universe, including the primitive Federation societies, would condone the suicide of a mentally unbalanced person.
TUVOK: Tell me Q, can you offer any other evidence of mental instability on the part of my client?
Q2: What more do I need? He wants to kill himself.
TUVOK: In fact, until this issue arose, he was known in the Continuum as one of your great philosophers. Is that not true?
Q2: Not anymore, it isn't.
TUVOK: So, your entire basis for judging him mentally unbalanced is his wish to commit suicide. I submit that is a faulty premise. In many cultures, suicide is acceptable, and in and of itself cannot be used as evidence of mental illness.
JANEWAY: I tend to agree with Mister Tuvok.
Q: Vulcans.
TUVOK: Is it not true that on occasion the Continuum has executed Qs for certain crimes?
Q2: On rare occasions, yes.
TUVOK: Didn't their deaths create an interruption to the Continuum?
Q2: Their crimes created the interruption. Their deaths ended it. I know where you're going with this, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: Do you?
Q2: And it's not going to work. Our society, like any other, must control its disruptive elements. An execution may be undesirable, I grant you that, but on some rare occasions it is necessary and warranted. And the decision to proceed is only made after great deliberation by the entire Continuum. You can not imagine the chaos that would be created if individuals like Q here, could choose between life and death. This is a matter of social order versus anarchy.
TUVOK: I understand. And you find nothing contradictory in a society that outlaws suicide but practices capital punishment?
Q2: No.
JANEWAY: Any other questions, Lieutenant?
TUVOK: Just one other thing. Isn't it true that you yourself were once accused of being mentally unstable by the Continuum? Were you not you disciplined for inappropriate behavior?
Q: Objection.
JANEWAY: I'll allow the question.
Q2: My record has been expunged.
TUVOK: I will take that as a yes. Thank you. That is all.
JANEWAY: You're excused.
Q: If I may beg the court's indulgence, I have other witnesses to call.
JANEWAY: To what end?
Q: Your Captain Honor, I am here to argue for the majesty of life. What it means to us to be alive. A Q's life takes him to all corners of the universe. This Q's life has touched and affected many, many others, including some on your own homeworld. With your permission, I would like to call some of those people whose lives have been changed by this Q.
JANEWAY: You want to bring people here from Earth?
Q: I promise it won't impact the timeline, and no one will remember ever having being here after I send them back.
JANEWAY: This is most unusual. Do you have any objection, Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: I am as curious as you are, Captain.
JANEWAY: Very well. Proceed.
RIKER: Q. What the hell is going on?
JANEWAY: My apologies, Commander. To you all. My name is Kathryn Janeway.
RIKER: Captain Janeway. USS Voyager.
JANEWAY: That's correct, Commander. You're aboard Voyager. We're lost in the Delta Quadrant, and as much as I wish you could tell them that when you get home, your memories will be wiped before you get back.
GINSBERG: God, if you let me live through this, I promise I'll clean up my act. I swear.
NEWTON: I demand an explanation. Why are you dressed like this, young man?
GINSBERG: Man, have you looked in a mirror lately?
JANEWAY: Allow me to try to explain, Mister?
GINSBERG: Ginsberg. Er, Maury Ginsberg.
NEWTON: Sir Isaac Newton.
RIKER: William Riker. Nice to meet you.
JANEWAY: Consider for a moment that it might be possible to travel forward in time, say to the twenty fourth century, onto a starship seventy five thousand light years from Earth.
JANEWAY: You're having a very strange dream, and in this dream, you're seeing this man whom you've all met before.
NEWTON: Yes I have seen that man before. You were sitting under the tree the day
Q: The day the apple fell on your head?
NEWTON: Yes. That's right.
Q: Quite a day, wasn't it? As a matter of fact, this man jostled the tree when he got up to leave.
NEWTON: Just before the apple fell, yes.
Q: And a new era in human science was born.
GINSBERG: Wait a minute. Weren't you the guy in the jeep?
Q: The guy in the jeep, who picked you up after your own vehicle broke down that summer afternoon, isn't that right?
GINSBERG: Oh, man, he was a lifesaver. My van died and they dragged it off the road because of all the traffic. It was backed up for miles.
Q: You were on your way to a job, weren't you?
GINSBERG: Yeah, I was supposed to be on the follow spot up on tower three. I never would have made it in time if it weren't for him. Hey, whatever happened with that groovy chick with the long red beads in the back seat? I've been looking for her ever since you dropped me off.
QUINN: You'll see her again, don't worry.
Q: To sum up, you were a spotlight operator at an outdoor concert of some sort. A concert that was put in jeopardy moments before it was to begin, because the entire sound system failed.
GINSBERG: Oh, it was no big deal. Somebody must have snagged an extension cord with one of the trucks, that's all. I'm just lucky I noticed it.
Q: Yes, lucky you were at the right place at the right time, or it would have taken days to track down the problem and there would have been no concert.
RIKER: Well, I'm sorry to say I have met him, but I've never seen this man before in my life.
Q: Are you sure?
TUVOK: Has it not been established that my client has in captivity during all of Commander Riker's lifetime?
Q: Have you seen this photograph before?
RIKER: Sure I have. That is Colonel Thaddeus Riker after he was wounded at Pine Mountain. They used to call him Old Iron Boots. He was in command of the Hundred and Second New York during General Sherman's march on Atlanta. This picture was taken in eighteen sixty four, just after they let him out of the army hospital.
Q: And the soldier beside him?
RIKER: I'll be damned. It's him.
Q: As a matter of fact, he carried your wounded ancestor back from the front line. Didn't you? My point is, Captain, that Q has had a profound influence on these three lives. Without Q, Isaac Newton would have died forgotten in a Liverpool debtor's prison, a suspect in several prostitute murders. Without Q, there would have been no concert at, er.
QUINN: Woodstock.
Q: Wherever. More importantly, Mister Ginsberg would never have met his future wife, the groovy chick with the long red beads, and he would never have become a successful orthodontist, settled in Scarsdale with four kids.
GINSBERG: Far out.
Q: Yes. Without Q there would have been no William T. Riker at all, and I would have lost at least a dozen really good opportunities to insult him over the years. Oh, and lest I forget, without Q, the Borg would have assimilated the Federation. Thank you. Thank you.
Q: This is the life Q treats without respect. This is the life that he would give up so easily.
TUVOK: May I remind this hearing, and my learned colleague, that for three centuries, my client has not been allowed contact with anyone. At this time, we would like to reproduce the environment in which he has been confined.
Q: I object.
JANEWAY: No, I'll allow this.

[Inside the comet]
TUVOK: These are the conditions my client would be forced to live in for eternity if you deny asylum, Captain.
Q: We just want to give him time to reconsider his position.
QUINN: I will never change my mind.
Q: This is your own doing. You could live a perfectly normal life if you were simply willing to live a perfectly normal life.
JANEWAY: I've seen enough. Please return us to the hearing room.

[Hearing room]
TUVOK: I would submit that the quality of life that my client will have to endure should be considered in this proceeding.
JANEWAY: I don't like those conditions any more than you do, Mister Tuvok, and I wouldn't want to spend another day there if I were you, Q, but I'm here to rule on a request for asylum, not to judge the penal system of the Q Continuum. And he does have a point. You were confined only to prevent you from doing harm to yourself. I've been doing a great deal of research, studying a variety of cultural attitudes on suicide, to help me frame the basis of a decision. Mister Tuvok, are you familiar with the double effect principle on assisted suicide that dates back to the Bolian Middle Ages?
TUVOK: I believe it relates to the relief of suffering, does it not, Captain.
JANEWAY: It states, an action that has the principal effect of relieving suffering may be ethically justified even though the same action has the secondary effect of possibly causing death. This principle is the only thing I can find that could possibly convince me to decide in your favor, Q. And yet, as I look at you, you don't seem by our standards, aged, infirm, or in any pain. Can you show this hearing that you suffer in any manner other than that caused by the conditions of your incarceration? Any suffering that would justify a decision to grant you asylum.
TUVOK: May I request a recess to consider our response, Captain?
JANEWAY: Granted.

[Mess hall]
QUINN: We're going to lose, aren't we?
TUVOK: I would say we have not yet convinced Captain Janeway of the validity of our argument.
QUINN: You're doing a fine job, Mister Tuvok. It's nice to know someone believes in me.
TUVOK: I am representing your position to the best of my ability. It is most definitely not my own. I see no persuasive evidence that a life like yours should be wasted simply because you are disgruntled. Frankly, I see no logic to your position.
QUINN: You, you surprise me, Mister Tuvok, which is a rare and special gift to a Q. Thank you. But may I say, if you only knew what life as a Q were like, you would see the logic.
TUVOK: Then perhaps what we should do next is take this hearing to see life in the Continuum itself. Captain's log, supplemental. I'm determined to find a better alternative to suicide or endless prison, so I've summoned the advocate Q to make him a proposal.

[Ready room]
Q: Yes, what is it, Captain?
JANEWAY: Come to the next session of the hearing and announce that the Continuum is ready to reintegrate Q into your society. That you won't condemn him to that cell for eternity.
Q: And you will rule in our favor.
JANEWAY: I would consider it a very meaningful gesture by the Continuum.
Q: How would you know if I intended to keep my word?
JANEWAY: Based on my research, you have been many things. A rude, interfering, inconsiderate, sadistic
Q: You've made your point.
JANEWAY: Pest. And, oh yes, you introduced us to the Borg, thank you very much. But one thing you have never been is a liar.
Q: I think you've uncovered my one redeeming virtue. Am I blushing? I wish I could help you, Kathy. I just can't. We're dealing here with the most dangerous man in the Continuum. Now I didn't tell you this, but one of his self destructive stunts created a misunderstanding which ignited the hundred year war between the Romulans and the Vulcans. No, this man goes back into his confinement. But I would like to make it easier for you. The Continuum is prepared to do you a little favor, if we approve of your ruling. Look out the window.
Q: Now you see it. Now you don't.

[Hearing room]
TUVOK: We are prepared to illustrate the nature of Q's suffering, Captain. But in order to do so, we must show this hearing what life is like in the Continuum.
Q: And how do you intend to do that?
TUVOK: By going to the Continuum itself.
JANEWAY: Is this possible?
Q: No. It's a ridiculous idea. You would never understand.
TUVOK: My client has the right to ask for an inspection of the living conditions that lead to his suffering, Captain.
JANEWAY: I would agree with that.
Q: I suppose you have some crazy idea how to pull this off?
QUINN: Yes.
Q: Only if.
QUINN: Fine, fine.
Q: We've agreed on a format for this little sojourn. But I still believe it's ill-advised.
JANEWAY: I'll be the judge of that. Whenever you're ready.
Q: No, please.

[Desert road]
JANEWAY: This is the Q Continuum? A road in a desert?
Q: I told you so.
QUINN: This is a manifestation of the Continuum that we hope falls within your level of comprehension. This way.

[Roadside building]
JANEWAY: Good afternoon.
QUINN: I apologize for their lack of hospitality, Captain. We're not used to visitors here. In fact you are the only ones who've ever come.
TUVOK: Then what is the purpose of the road?
QUINN: The road takes us to the rest of the universe, then it leads back here. An endless circle.
JANEWAY: This was your existence before your confinement?
QUINN: I traveled the road many times, sat on the porch, played the games, been the dog, everything. I was even the scarecrow for a while.
JANEWAY: Why?
QUINN: Because I hadn't done it.
Q: Oh, we've all done the scarecrow. Big deal.
JANEWAY: I can't say I entirely understand what I'm seeing here, but these people don't seem to be suffering.
Q: Of course not. They're happy people. Happy people. What's there to feel sad about? Look at them.
QUINN: They don't dare feel sad. If only they could, that would be progress.
Q: Oh, the philosopher speaks.
QUINN: When I was a respected philosopher, I celebrated the continuity, the undeviation of Q life. I argued that our civilization had achieved a purity that no other culture had ever approached. And it was wonderful, for a while. At the beginning of the New Era, life as a Q was a continuous dialogue of discovery and issues and humor from all over the universe. But look at them now. Listen to their dialogue now.
TUVOK: I'm afraid I cannot hear any.
QUINN: Because it has all been said. Everyone has heard everything, seen everything. They haven't had to speak to each other in ten millennia. There's nothing left to say.
Q: Well, I don't know about you, but I appreciate a little peace and quiet now and again.
QUINN: It's ironic, isn't it, Q.
Q: I don't know what you mean.
QUINN: Of course you do. That you of all people should be arguing their case.
Q: I believe in the ultimate purity of the Q.
QUINN: You, who were banned from the Continuum and made mortal to pay for your crimes?
Q: My penance has ended. I'm a born again Q. That life is behind me.
QUINN: What a shame. Because in many ways, that life inspired me.
Q: It did? I did?
QUINN: Oh, yes. You never knew that, did you? You see, Captain, Q rebelled against this existence by refusing to behave himself. He was out of control. He used his powers irresponsibly and all for his own amusement. And he desperately needed amusement, because he could find none here at home.
Q: And I paid the price for my inappropriate behavior.
QUINN: No, no, we paid the price by forcing you to stop. But for a moment there, you really had our attention. My attention. You gave us something to talk about. But then you surrendered to the will of the Continuum like a good little Q, and may I say that you've become a fine, upstanding member of the Continuum. But I miss the irrepressible Q, the one who forced me to think. May I borrow this?
QUINN: This was the beginning of my fall from grace. This was the last edition, by the way. They shut down the presses after I wrote that.
QUINN: But they couldn't keep me silent. I continued to speak out in favor of self-termination.
Q: That's when he lost his mind and started trying to destroy himself. We had no choice but to confine him but for his own safety.
QUINN: Not for my safety. For theirs. I was the greatest threat the Continuum had ever known. They feared me so much they had to lock me away for eternity. And when they did that, they were saying that the individual's rights will be protected only so long as they don't conflict with the state. Nothing is so dangerous to a society. My life's work is complete, but they force immortality on me, and when the do that they cheapen and denigrate my life and all life in the Continuum. All life. Captain, you're an explorer. What if you had nothing left to explore? Would you want to live forever under those circumstances? You want me to prove to you that I suffer in terms that you can equate with pain or disease. Look at us. When life has become futile, meaningless, unendurable, it must be allowed to end. Can't you see, Captain? For us, the disease is immortality.

[Hearing room]
TUVOK: We rest our case, Captain.
JANEWAY: Very well. I'll make my ruling in the morning. We'll be in recess until then.

[Janeway's quarters]
Q: Trouble sleeping? Did you ever try warm Kylerian goat's milk?
JANEWAY: Get out.
Q: Did you think about our offer?
JANEWAY: You mean your bribe.
Q: Merely an incentive to make the proper decision.
JANEWAY: It'll play no part in my deliberations.
Q: No, I told them it wouldn't. That's why I talked them into giving you what you asked for. You have my word. He won't go back to the cell. We'll assign someone to look after him. Whatever it takes. It's what you wanted, isn't it?
JANEWAY: That's what I wanted.
Q: So, you've won. Let's celebrate. Just you and me. The two of us.
JANEWAY: What?
Q: I'll take you home. Before you know it, you'll be scampering across the meadow with your little puppies, the grass beneath your bare feet. A man, coming over the hill way in the distance, waves to you. You run to be in his arms and as you get closer you see that it's me.
JANEWAY: You?
Q: Forget Mark. I know how to show a girl a good time. How would you like a ticker-tape parade down Sri Lanka Boulevard? The captain who brought Voyager back. A celebrated hero. I never did anything like that for Jean-Luc. But I feel very close to you. I'm not sure why. Maybe it's because you have such authority and yet manage to preserve your femininity so well.
JANEWAY: Leave.
Q: We'll talk about this after the hearing tomorrow.

[Hearing room]
JANEWAY: I've tried to find some way to reconcile all the conflicting emotions I've felt during this hearing. My own aversion to suicide, my compassion for your situation, Q. It hasn't been easy. I've tried to tell myself that this is not about suicide, but about granting asylum. That I am not personally being asked to perform euthanasia. And as technically true as that may be, I cannot escape the moral implications of my choices. I've also had to consider that a decision to grant asylum, and the subsequent suicide of a Q, might have a significant impact on the Continuum. That such a decision could change the nature of an entire society, whether it be a favorable or unfavorable change, disturbs me greatly. But then there are the rights of the individual in this matter. I don't believe that you are mentally unbalanced. And I do believe that you are suffering intolerably. Under these conditions, I find it impossible to support immortality forced on an individual by the state. The unforeseen disruption that may occur in the Continuum is not enough, in my opinion, to justify any additional suffering by this individual. So, I hereby grant you asylum.
Q: May I see you in your chambers, Captain?
JANEWAY: You've been in my chambers enough for one visit, sir.
Q: A sidebar, your honor. Only for a moment.
QUINN: She ruled in my favor. You made a promise.
QUINN: Nothing happened. Nothing! My powers are gone! I'm mortal.
Q: Well, so much for ticker-tape parades.
JANEWAY: I'm not finished, Q. Now that you're mortal, you have a new existence to explore. An entirely new state of being filled with the mysteries of mortal life, pleasures you've never felt before. I like this life, Q. You might too. Think hard before you give it up. This hearing is adjourned. Captain's log, stardate 49301.2. We have assigned quarters to our new passenger, who has entered his name on our crew manifest as Quinn. I am anxious to engage him in ship activities as soon as possible.

[Ready room]
CHAKOTAY: How about Stellar Cartography?
JANEWAY: We could shut down Stellar Cartography with all the knowledge he'd bring to the job.
CHAKOTAY: Well, that's going to be a problem with just about everything we assign him to.
JANEWAY: There's got to be something on board that will
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
EMH (voiceover): Captain, I think you should come down to Sickbay. Mister Quinn is here. I'm afraid he's dying.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: There's nothing you can do?
EMH: He's ingested a rare form of Nogatch hemlock. There is no known cure.
QUINN: I'm sorry to disappoint you, Captain. But I would only have be pretending to fit in to this mortal existence. This is my final gift to my people. Oh! Tell them those were my last words. I dearly thank you for making this poss
TUVOK: Doctor, do you generally keep samples of fatal poisons in storage?
EMH: No.
TUVOK: The replicators will not produce them either.
JANEWAY: So how did he get his hands on Nogatch hemlock?
Q: I got it for him.
TUVOK: You assisted his suicide?
Q: Illogical, Tuvok? 1 don't think so. By demanding to end his life, he taught me a little something about my own. He was right when he said the Continuum scared me back in line. I didn't have his courage or his convictions. He called me irrepressible. This was a man who was truly irrepressible. I only hope I make a worthy student.
JANEWAY: I imagine the Continuum won't be very happy with you, Q.
Q: I certainly hope not. Au revoir, Madam Captain. We will meet again.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Sorry I'm late, but I have a very good excuse. Picture this. I'm just getting ready to leave the Mess hall, when Ensign Wildman goes into labor. What else could I do but deliver the baby? Oh, you should've been there, Harry. There is nothing like bringing a new life into the world. I think I missed my calling. What if I told you the turbolift got stuck on deck six?
CHAKOTAY: This is the third time you've been late this week, Mister Paris.
PARIS: It won't happen again.
TUVOK: Commander, I am picking up a distress call on one of the upper subspace bands.
CHAKOTAY: What's the source?
TUVOK: A small spacecraft. No weapon systems. One life form aboard. Extremely weak life signs.
CHAKOTAY: Slow to half impulse.
KIM: According to the bioscanner, it's a Vidiian female.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
KIM: No response.
CHAKOTAY: She may be too sick.
PARIS: Or maybe it's some kind of trick.
TUVOK: Preliminary scans show no other Vidiian ships in this sector. It is unlikely that this is a trap.
JANEWAY: Commander Chakotay, notify the Doctor. Mister Kim, beam the woman to Sickbay.
KIM: Aye, Captain.

[Sickbay]
KES: Her renal organs are functioning at twenty percent of normal and her cardiovascular system is on the verge of collapse.
EMH: Twenty milligrams of lectrazine.
KES: Cardiovascular and renal systems are stabilizing, but her neural patterns are fading. What is it?
EMH: In her parietal lobe. It looks like some sort of implant. It's a very complex web of bioneural circuitry. Nanofibers.
KES: Could this be what's causing the problem?
EMH: On the contrary. According to these readings, the device is actually storing her synaptic patterns, processing them and transmitting neural electrical impulses to the rest of her systems.
KES: Are you saying it's some kind of artificial brain?
EMH: No. I'd say it's more like a neuro-cortical stimulator, designed to supplement the higher brain functions.
KES: But it's not working any more.
EMH: From what I can tell, the implant itself is functioning, but it's connected to mostly dead nerve cells. If we don't do something quickly, she'll be brain dead in a matter of minutes.
KES: What about trying to stimulate cell regeneration with a high dosage of inaprovaline?
EMH: Very impressive, Kes, but I think it's too late for that. Get me a high frequency RF transmitter. You're going to have to hurry, Kes. The patient's brain function is diminishing rapidly. Now, set the delta band frequency of the holo-emitter to eight point six tetrahertz.
KES: What are we doing exactly?
EMH: Transferring the patient's synaptic patterns into the holo-buffer before they degrade completely.
KES: Is there enough storage capacity in the holo-matrix for such complex data patterns?
EMH: There's enough capacity for my program, isn't there? And my program contains over fifty million gigaquads of data, which I don't have to tell you is considerably more than most highly developed humanoid brains.
KES: What good is preserving her synaptic patterns if there's no body?
EMH: I'm creating a holographic body. Not only will we be able to communicate with the patient, but we'll have an accurate model of healthy Vidiian physiology that will aid in treating her actual body. Computer, project the patient's skeletal structure. Now add internal organs. Add musculature. Now apply epidermal layers. Computer, use transporter records to recreate the patient's clothing.

[Ready room]
CHAKOTAY: According to her ship's navigational logs, the woman was en route to a remote Vidiian colony.
JANEWAY: Are we anywhere near it?
CHAKOTAY: It's about ten light years away. We should be in the general vicinity in about twenty two days.
JANEWAY: Assuming she survives, and we can take adequate security precautions, we'll turn her over to her people when we get there.
CHAKOTAY: Captain.
JANEWAY: Is there something wrong?
CHAKOTAY: I wanted to talk to you about Lieutenant Paris. His attitude lately has been less than professional.
JANEWAY: I've noticed.
CHAKOTAY: I know crew discipline's my responsibility, but in this case I thought I should let you get involved before I took any action. In a way, Paris has been your personal reclamation project.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your bringing this to my attention, Commander, but I trust you to handle the problem any way you see fit. Chief Medical Officer's Log, supplemental. Test results indicate that the holographic body is functioning normally. The patient's synaptic patterns appear to be stable, so I'm now ready to begin transferring her cognitive and motor processes.

[Sickbay]
DENARA: Who are you?
EMH: I'm the Chief Medical Officer of the Federation Starship Voyager. We received your distress call and brought you aboard.
DENARA: What have you done to me?
EMH: It's quite simple, really. I used the undamaged chromosomes in your cerebellum to recreate your original DNA code, and then programmed the computer to project a holographic template based on that genome.
DENARA: Holographic?
EMH: A three-dimensional projection of light and energy. See for yourself.
EMH: Your neural patterns were degrading rapidly. It was too late to expect results from inaprovaline, so I was forced to improvise, not that it would have occurred to just any physician. Why are you crying?
DENARA: I'm sorry, I
EMH: I thought you'd be pleased.
DENARA: I am. I just never expected to look healthy again. I've been sick for so long.
EMH: I'll need a complete medical history. How long have you been ill exactly?
DENARA: I was first diagnosed with the Phage when I was seven.
EMH: And when did you begin receiving replacement tissue?
DENARA: About that same time. At first, it was hard to get used to the changes, but it happened so often that after a while I, I almost stopped noticing. I never, I never thought I'd see myself again. Thank you. This is the most extraordinary thing anyone has ever done for me.
EMH: I wouldn't be too grateful. There are serious limitations to being a hologram. First of all, we can only exist within environments equipped with holo-emitters, such as the Sickbay.
DENARA: Do you mean you're a
EMH: I'm this ship's Emergency Medical Holographic Program.
DENARA: You're a computer simulation?
EMH: An incredibly sophisticated computer simulation.
DENARA: I'm sorry. What did you say your name was?
EMH: I don't have a name. It wasn't part of my original program. However you, I'm sure, have one.
DENARA: Denara. Denara Pel.
EMH: Well, Miss Pel. May I ask what someone with an illness like yours was doing alone in space with no access to medical care?
DENARA: I was helping to treat an outbreak of the Phage on Fina Prime. I was on my way back to my home colony, but it's a long journey and my condition got worse.
EMH: You're a medical practitioner of some kind?
DENARA: A hematologist.
EMH: Well then, perhaps given your expertise, you can help me with your treatment.
DENARA: My treatment? I feel fine.
EMH: Unfortunately, that's only temporary. Your synaptic patterns will eventually degrade if we don't get them out of the pattern buffers and back into your brain.
DENARA: How long?
EMH: A few days. Perhaps a week.
DENARA: I see.
EMH: Your real body is in stasis. As you can see, we have to find a way to repair your damaged neural tissue. Is something wrong?
DENARA: It's nothing.
EMH: I'm eager to discuss treatments.
DENARA: Of course.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: The procedure is quite simple. I'll drill an opening into your skull precisely two millimeters in diameter, and then use a neuralyte probe to extract a sample of your parietal lobe, weighing approximately one gram.
TORRES: It doesn't sound simple to me. I still have nightmares about what those people did to me. And now, you want to crack open my head, cut out a piece of my brain and give it to her?
EMH: Your experience in the Vidiian prison suggests Klingon DNA is resistant to the Phage. Losing a small amount of neural tissue is inconsequential.
TORRES: Not to me, it isn't.
EMH: Yet that same tissue, grafted onto the patient's brain and stimulated to grow, will significantly slow the spread of her infection. If we can increase the grafted tissue mass quickly enough, we can transfer her synaptic patterns back into her brain before they degrade in the holo-buffer. It won't cure the Phage, but it should prolong her life considerably. Please, change into a surgical gown and lie down on biobed number one.
TORRES: I am not going to
DENARA: Excuse me. I just want to say that I've read about the experiments that were done on you. What you went through must have been very traumatic.
TORRES: That is an understatement.
DENARA: I'm sure it is. Please understand this disease has been killing my people for hundreds of years. Trying to stop it has become an obsession, and many of our politicians and scientists have never developed compassion for the people who keep us alive. As much as I want to go on living, I've accepted the fact that I will die soon. I only want your help if you are willing to give it.
TORRES: Of course I, I'd like to help you if I can.
DENARA: If you have any questions at all about the procedure, I'd be happy to answer them for you.
TORRES: I'll go and get changed.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've finished ingrafting the Klingon neural tissue to your cerebral cortex. Now all I have to do is create an axonal pathway between that tissue and your basal ganglia.
DENARA: Your technique is very impressive.
EMH: It's all part of my programming. For example, this exact procedure was developed by Doctor Leonard McCoy in the year 2253. I'm equipped with the collective medical knowledge of more than three thousand cultures. Additionally, as you see here, my imaging system allows me to perform, and in many cases improve upon, the most delicate tactile maneuvers required by a dizzying array of surgical procedures.
DENARA: Incredible.
EMH: It is, isn't it? Hand me the submicron suture, please. There. That should do it. Excellent work, Doctor.
DENARA: I was only assisting.
EMH: Nonetheless, that assistance was invaluable. It could be two or three days before we'll know if the graft will hold. In the meantime, perhaps I should deactivate your program temporarily.
DENARA: Do you have to?
EMH: It would slow the degradation of your synaptic patterns.
DENARA: But I have so much energy. I don't know. Maybe it's the excitement of the surgery or, or maybe it's this new body. What I'd really like to do is take a walk and see the rest of your ship.
EMH: Unfortunately, that's not possible. However, if you're looking for something to do, please feel free to use my office to access our medical database. You'll find several interesting texts on comparative endocrinology.
DENARA: All right. Thank you.
EMH: On second thought, there is someplace else we could go.

[Sandrine's]
DENARA: It's wonderful. If I had a place like this to go to, I'd be there every day.
EMH: Don't your people have recreational facilities?
DENARA: Congregating in groups is strictly regulated. It's considered to be a threat to public health.
EMH: A wise policy.
DENARA: I suppose. Sometimes I think my people spend so much time trying to save lives, they don't know how to live anymore.
NEELIX: Doctor! Aren't you going to introduce me to your date?
EMH: She is not my date. She's my patient.
NEELIX: I'm sorry. I didn't realize.
EMH: Mister Neelix, this is Doctor Denara Pel.
NEELIX: As Chief Morale Officer, may I be the first to welcome you to Voyager.
GIGOLO: Madame, your loveliness illuminates our dark little cavern. May I have the pleasure of this next dance?
EMH: Go away, immediately, both of you. You're disturbing my patient.
GIGOLO: You are just jealous because you cannot dance.
NEELIX: Let's go. You're making the lady nervous. Nice to meet you.
EMH: I apologize.
DENARA: No. They were just being nice.
EMH: Irritating, isn't it?
DENARA: I guess I'm just not used to so much attention. Where I come from, when you're as sick as I am, people, healthy people stay away from you. I guess I forgot for a second that I don't look like that anymore.
EMH: It's a natural response.
DENARA: All this talk about me. There's still so much I'd like to know about you.
EMH: There's not much to tell, really. My program was developed by Doctor Louis Zimmerman in a lab on Jupiter Station. I was activated on stardate 48308. Since that time I've performed three hundred and forty seven medical exams, healed eleven compound fractures, performed three appendectomies, and in my greatest feat of medical prowess, I once cured Mister Neelix of an acute case of the hiccups.
DENARA: You're very funny.
EMH: I am? Well, several clinical studies have shown humor to be very therapeutic. Consider it part of your treatment. What is it?
DENARA: It's, er, just that I, I haven't laughed in a very long time. Thank you. Well, what did that man mean when he said you can't dance?
EMH: That's dancing.
DENARA: And you can't do it?
EMH: It's not part of my programming.
DENARA: Oh. I see.
EMH: Well, Doctor Pel.
DENARA: Please, call me Denara.
EMH: As you wish, Denara.
DENARA: And what about you? What should I call you?
EMH: Well, as I said.
DENARA: I know. You don't have a name. Would it be all right if I gave you one?
EMH: Well, I
DENARA: How about Shmullus.
EMH: Shmullus?
DENARA: It was my uncle's name. He used to make me laugh too.
EMH: Doctor Shmullus. I think I like the sound of that.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Well, here we are.
DENARA: Yes, here we are.
EMH: Denara, I think we should
DENARA: Yes?
EMH: Deactivate your program for at least eight hours.
DENARA: If you think it's best.
EMH: I do.
DENARA: All right, then.
EMH: All right. Computer
DENARA: Shmullus?
EMH: Yes?
DENARA: I had a wonderful time.
EMH: I'm pleased.
DENARA: Thank you, for everything.
EMH: Thank you for giving me a name. Er, well, good night, Denara.
DENARA: Good night, Shmullus.
EMH: Computer, deactivate Vidiian Program Alpha.

[Mess hall]
CHAKOTAY: Mind if I join you? So how are things, Tom?
PARIS: Excuse me?
CHAKOTAY: How have you been feeling lately? Something bothering you?
PARIS: Oh, no offense, Commander, but why this sudden concern for my feelings?
CHAKOTAY: Well, you've been moody lately, indifferent to your duties. To be honest, you don't seem to be taking your job very seriously. If you've got a problem, I'd like to know what it is.
PARIS: Yeah, I've got a problem. My problem is you.
CHAKOTAY: You care to elaborate?
PARIS: You tell me I don't take my job seriously. But half the time, you don't let me do my job.
CHAKOTAY: What's that supposed to mean?
PARIS: It means that you don't trust my judgment. You don't allow me to take initiative. Remember last week? I suggested that we might save time by traveling through that emissions nebula. But what did you say? Oh no, that's not the way we do things on this ship.
CHAKOTAY: Look, sometimes I'm not going to agree with your suggestions. But making decisions is part of being a leader. Maybe someday you'll understand that.
PARIS: Being a leader also means knowing when to give your people a little leeway and let them be creative. I might as well put this ship on autopilot for all the freedom you give me to do my job.
CHAKOTAY: I didn't come here for a lecture from you on how to do my job.
PARIS: Yeah, well, I know you don't put much stock in my opinion. So maybe you should talk to some of these people, because I'm not the only one around here who's got a problem with you. Now, if there's nothing else, sir, I'd like to be excused.
CHAKOTAY: Sure, Paris. You're excused.

[Secret location]
LORRUM (screen): Dissension among the Voyager crew. Maje Culluh will find that very interesting. Good work, Mister Jonas. Now, there's something else we'd like you to do. We want you to create a small accident which will damage Voyager's warp coils.
JONAS: Why?
LORRUM (screen): here's no need to concern yourself with that. You just plan the accident. We'll let you know exactly when we want it to happen. Do we understand each other?
JONAS: I want to talk to Seska.
LORRUM (screen): I'm afraid Maje Culluh won't
JONAS: You tell Maje Culluh that I won't do anything to damage Voyager. And if he has a problem with that, tell him to have Seska contact me.

[Doctor's office]
KES: Doctor, when you have a minute
EMH: I'm running a level two self-diagnostic right now. I'll be there as soon as I'm finished.
KES: Why are you running a diagnostic?
EMH: I've been experiencing periodic lapses in concentration and difficulty handing objects. There may be a malfunction in my tactile acuity subroutine.
KES: How long has this been going on?
EMH: About two or three days.
KES: Since Denara came aboard.
EMH: What's your point?
KES: Maybe she's the reason you're feeling this way.
EMH: I fail to see a connection.
KES: Maybe you're attracted to her.
EMH: I told you, my program's malfunctioning.
KES: Romance is not a malfunction.
EMH: Romance is not part of my programming.
KES: Your programming's adaptive, isn't it?
EMH: Yes.
KES: Then I'd say it's adapting.
EMH: What if I don't want it to adapt right now?
KES: Why wouldn't you?
EMH: Because I don't like what's happening to me. I'm used to being in control of my faculties, confident of my decisions. But lately, whenever Denara's program is deactivated and I should be concentrating on my work, I find myself thinking of nothing but her.
KES: Why don't you reactivate her?
EMH: Because whenever I do that, I suddenly feel unsettled, unsure of myself, and I have no idea what to say. Why would people seek out situations which induce such unpleasant symptoms?
KES: Because when the other person feels the same way you do, it's the most wonderful thing in life.
EMH: Suppose, hypothetically, of course
KES: Of course.
EMH: I wanted to pursue that possibility. How would I proceed?
KES: You'd have to tell her how you feel.
EMH: That's it? Just tell her how I feel?
KES: Otherwise you may never know how she feels.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I'm going to try stimulating your motor neurons. Well, the nucleus cuneatus appears to be functioning normally. And now for the anterior thalamic pathway. Excellent. By the way, Denara, I've been meaning to tell you.
DENARA: Yes?
EMH: I'm romantically attracted to you and wanted to know if you felt the same way. Is something wrong?
DENARA: No, I
EMH: Did you understand what I said?
DENARA: Yes.
EMH: Well?
KES: Doctor, maybe now isn't the time to
EMH: Excuse me, Kes. I was speaking to Denara.
DENARA: I think it's best if we keep our relationship professional.
EMH: Oh. I'm going to try simulating the posterior sciatic nerve.

[Sandrine's]
PARIS: Doc. What brings you here? Is somebody sick?
EMH: Actually, Mister Paris, I was looking for you.
PARIS: Oh. Well, pull up a chair.
EMH: Mister Paris, I assume you've had a great deal of experience being rejected by women.
PARIS: Oh, thanks a lot, Doc.
EMH: What I'd like to know is, what does one do to recover from the unpleasant symptoms of romantic rejection?
PARIS: Why the sudden interest in romance?
EMH: I can't tell you. It's a matter of doctor-patient confidentiality.
PARIS: Ah. All right. Well, let's see. Sometimes there's not a lot you can do to get over a woman you really care about. I remember when Susie Crabtree dumped me back in my first year at the Academy. I broke out in hives. Couldn't get out of bed for a week. I almost failed Stellar Cartography. I walked around in a daze for the rest of that year. Of course, the first one is always the hardest to get over.
EMH: I see.
PARIS: But, eventually, you start thinking about her less and less. Until finally, without realizing it, she's not on your mind anymore.
EMH: So, the symptoms do subside over time?
PARIS: For the most part. But every now and then, even years later, something reminds you of her. A certain smell, a few notes of a song, and suddenly you feel just as bad as the day she told you she never wanted to see you again. If you want to know the honest truth, Doc, you never completely get over a woman you really cared about. Wait a minute, Doc. We're not talking about you, are we?
EMH: I told you, it was confidential.
PARIS: Oh. Boy, you've got it bad. Look, Doc, I don't mean to intrude, but if you tell me what's going on, maybe I can help.

[Sickbay]
DENARA: Hello, Kes.
KES: Are you feeling all right?
DENARA: I'm fine. I'm just waiting for the Doctor.
KES: Oh.
DENARA: He's been gone a long time.
KES: You really like him, don't you? Then why didn't you tell him that you felt the same way when he told you that he was attracted to you?
DENARA: I don't know. It all happened so fast. He just blurted it out.
KES: He's very blunt. You shouldn't take it personally.
DENARA: How could he possibly have those kinds of feelings about me?
KES: Maybe because you're compassionate person, a brilliant doctor, you appreciate his humor. Should I go on?
DENARA: Please don't.
KES: One thing you're not very good at is accepting a compliment. The next time someone has something nice to say about you, maybe you should just take them at their word and feel good about yourself.
DENARA: It's not easy to feel good about yourself when you're used to living your life like that.
KES: Denara, I can't pretend to know what your life's been like. But I do know there's nothing sadder than a missed opportunity. Maybe what you and the Doctor need is to spend some time together, alone.

[Sandrine's]
PARIS: It sounds to me like she might just be shy. I think you scared her off.
EMH: I did?
PARIS: Your approach is all wrong.
EMH: Well, what would be the right approach?
PARIS: Women like romance. They want men to make an effort, take them someplace special.
EMH: Where would I take her?
PARIS: Come with me, Doc. I've got an idea. Doctor's personal log, stardate 49504.3. Inaugural entry. Kes and Mister Paris have conspired to get Denara and me alone together in a place Paris considers romantic. I've never felt more uneasy.

[Mars]
EMH: I wasn't sure you were coming.
DENARA: Neither was I.
EMH: If you don't want to be here
DENARA: No. I do. Where are we exactly?
EMH: On a planet called Mars inside a primitive land based vehicle. It's called a '57 Chevy. Mister Paris is quite an automobile aficionado. This is his program.
DENARA: What is it that we're supposed to be doing?
EMH: I believe it's called parking. I almost forgot. These are for you.
DENARA: Thank you. You're, you're very, very thoughtful.
EMH: I downloaded a new dancing subroutine program into my program this morning. Would you like to get out and try it?
DENARA: Actually, I wouldn't mind just sitting here for a while.
EMH: You wouldn't?
DENARA: Those moons and star formations are so different from anything I've ever seen before.
EMH: Well, if you're interested, I could point out a few astronomical highlights. You see that bluish planet there? That's called Earth. It's where Starfleet Headquarters is located. And over there, that's Cygnus. And there, that constellation is called Hercules, named after a character in ancient Greek myth. Hippocrates was also a Greek. He was the father of Earth medicine. And that cluster over there, that's called the Pleiades.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Sorry I'm late.
CHAKOTAY: That's all right, Mister Paris. We don't need you. Mister Grimes has taken your place at conn.
PARIS: But it's my shift.
CHAKOTAY: Not today it isn't.
PARIS: What, because I was ten minutes late?
CHAKOTAY: That's right.
PARIS: Captain.
JANEWAY: Don't look at me, Mister Paris. Commander Chakotay has complete discretion in this matter.
PARIS: So, when should I report back for duty?
CHAKOTAY: When you decide to start taking your job seriously, we'll discuss it. But right now, you're dismissed.
PARIS: Get your hands off me!
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Please escort Mister Paris to the brig.

[Secret location]
JONAS: Oh, boy, am I glad to see you. I wasn't even sure if they were giving you my messages.
SESKA (screen): I've got them all, Mike. You've been very helpful.
JONAS: Do you know what they're asking me to do?
SESKA (screen): You mean about the warp coils? I was thinking you could do it by forcing the magnetic constrictors out of alignment.
JONAS: Look, Seska, I don't mind feeding you information, but if you're planning some kind of attack.
SESKA (screen): I have no intention of raising my child on a Kazon ship. One way or another, I'm going to take Voyager. You can either help me, or you can suffer along with Janeway and the others. Don't worry, Mike. Everything's been planned to the letter. Here's how it's going to work. We'll be waiting for you on a planet called Hemikek Four. Doctor's personal log, Stardate 49507.2. The more time I spend with Denara, the more my programming continues to adapt. I look forward to perfecting my romantic skills once we've completed the synaptic transfer.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Set the delta band frequency of the holo-emitter to seven terahertz.
KES: Seven terahertz.
EMH: Wait a minute. Did you administer the cervaline as I instructed?
KES: Five hundred milligrams every four hours.
EMH: I don't understand it.
DENARA: What's wrong?
EMH: The brain, your brain, it's rejecting the graft. We can't go through with the transfer. I'm detecting elevated levels of nytoxinol.
KES: Where could that have come from?
EMH: Is it possible you made an error? Administered nytoxinol instead of cervaline?
KES: No, I don't think so. But here's the hypospray I used. Check for yourself.
EMH: You're correct. It's cervaline. Has anyone else been in Sickbay during the last twenty four hours other than you and Denara?
KES: Crewman Foster came in for some analgesic, and Ensign Wildman was here for her regular prenatal visit. Why?
EMH: Because if the nytoxinol was not administered by accident, I can only conclude that someone is deliberately trying to kill Denara.
KES: Who would want to kill her?
EMH: Perhaps someone who bears ill will towards Vidiians. Whoever it is, I intend to find out. I'm calling Lieutenant Tuvok.
DENARA: Please don't do that.
EMH: We have to find out who's trying to obstruct your recovery.
DENARA: I administered the nytoxinol.
EMH: Didn't you know it would kill you?
DENARA: You mean kill her.
EMH: She is you.
DENARA: Was me. I don't ever want to be her again! What are you doing?
EMH: Looking for the cervaline. I have to reduce the rate of tissue rejection before it's too late.
DENARA: Kes, would you excuse us?
DENARA: I don't want to go through with the transfer.
EMH: If we don't get your neural patterns out of the holo-buffer, you'll be brain dead in a matter of days. I can't let that happen.
DENARA: I'd rather live two more days like this with you, than go on for who knows how long wasting away a piece at a time.
EMH: It's my duty to keep you alive.
DENARA: I thought you were more than my doctor. I thought you were my friend.
EMH: I am your friend.
DENARA: What kind of friend would ask me to go on living like this? And for what? So that I can go back to a world where everyone I ever loved has died? Where almost everyone I meet is going to die?
EMH: You're a doctor. You can help them.
DENARA: I can't help them. I can't cure them. All I can do is prolong their suffering. Just like you want to do to me now.
EMH: Denara. I have no desire to see you suffer.
DENARA: Do you know what it's like? Do you?
EMH: No, but
DENARA: What it's like to be a nine year old child, and suddenly your best friend doesn't want to come to your house anymore. And when you ask your mother why, why won't Mala come and play with me anymore? And she tells you it's because, it's because the other children are afraid of you. Listen to me. Before I met you, I was just a disease. But now, everything's different. When people look at me, they don't see a disease anymore. They see a woman. A woman you made. A woman you love. A woman you're not afraid to touch.
EMH: Denara, I was never afraid to touch you.
DENARA: Why? Because you're a doctor?
EMH: Because I love you.
DENARA: You say that now. But if I go through with the transfer.
EMH: If you go through with the transfer.
DENARA: I will be sick again, and ugly.
EMH: Denara, you're not ugly. You're simply ill.
DENARA: Oh, please. Stop patronizing me! I know how people see me.
EMH: Denara, do you think if you go back into your own body, I'll feel different about you?
DENARA: Won't you?
EMH: Listen to me. Nothing could ever change the way I feel about you. Not a few scars, not some diseased skin. Nothing.
DENARA: You have given me the most extraordinary gift that anyone has ever given me. You, you brought me to this ship where no one is sick and people are friendly. You've made me healthy and beautiful. I don't want to go back to the way things were.
EMH: You said before you knew me that you were just a disease. Well, before you, I was just a projection of photons held together by force fields. A computerized physician doing a job, doing it exceptionally well, of course, but still it was just a profession, not a life. But now that you are here and my programming has adapted, I'm not just working anymore. I'm living, learning what it means to be with someone, to love someone. I don't think I can go back to the way things were, either. Denara, please. Don't die.
DENARA: I want us to be together.
EMH: So do I.
DENARA: But if you put me back in that body, I'll have to go home and help my people.
EMH: I know. But we'd still have two weeks together before we reached your colony. Denara, please, be with me for as long as you can.

[Sandrine's]
EMH: Computer, play music program Doctor Alpha.

[On monitor]
NEELIX: Good day, Voyager and welcome to A Briefing With Neelix. It's a catchy title, isn't it? I'll be coming to you each and every day with news of general interest. Interviews with our fascinating crew members. Musical performances. Recommendations for new holodeck programs. And of course, previews of upcoming meals. Everything from Hlaka soup to Zabee nuts. A Briefing With Neelix will help you stay informed about ship's activities, er, keep you abreast of your colleague's accomplishments and broaden your knowledge about a wealth of subjects. But most of all, it will make you feel good, because what you see here will always be the most uplifting, optimistic view of everything that happens on our ship. After all, as your morale officer, isn't it my job to bring a little joy into everyone's day? Hmm? Captain Janeway has agreed to appear on the show with regular updates about the ship's progress, and Commander Chakotay will commend outstanding crew members. So snap to and keep those boots polished to a shine. You never know when you might be featured on A Briefing With Neelix. Ready, Ensign?
BAYTART (voiceover): All set, Neelix.
NEELIX: In just a moment, an amazing talent. Ensign Pablo Baytart will astound you with his juggling ability. He'll keep PADDs, hyposprays, even phasers in the air for minutes at a time. But before that, what makes people feel better than a little romance? And what Lieutenant in a gold uniform was recently huddled in the Mess Hall with what crewman in blue having a very intimate conversation over a carafe of Silmic wine? Well, I'd never name names, but you know who you are. Best wishes to a handsome pair of lovebirds. And now, ladies and gentlemen, Ensign Pablo Baytart.

[Doctor's office]
NEELIX: Ladies and gentlemen, Ensign Pablo Baytart. Well? What did you think?
EMH: I'm a doctor, not a performer. I don't have time for such nonsense.
NEELIX: I can see Hints for Healthful Living becoming a very popular segment, Doctor.
EMH: I don't think so.
NEELIX: You'd be lifted to a whole new level in the crew's eyes. They'd hang on your every word. You'd enjoy a, a popularity, a, a celebrity that you've never known before.
EMH: I would?
NEELIX: You don't have to answer right away. Just think about it.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Ah, Mister Kim! Just the person I wanted to see.
KIM: See you later.
NEELIX: Did you watch A Briefing With Neelix this morning?
KIM: Uh, yes, yes, I did.
NEELIX: Is there something about the program you disliked?
KIM: I'm not sure I care for all the frosting.

[Turbolift]
NEELIX: Frosting?
KIM: Deck four. Recipes, music, jugglers. It's sort of like a steady diet of dessert, which is fine, but pretty soon you want some meat and potatoes.
NEELIX: You do?
KIM: When I was in school, I was editor of the Academy newspaper for a year. I monitored subspace transmissions. I got reports on some of the first activity by the Maquis against the Cardassians. I wrote an editorial about it, and the students became polarized on the issue. They debated the pros and cons, and gained an insight into the entire history of the political rebellion. Now, that's the power of journalism.
NEELIX: What did your professors say when you told them you were going to publish the editorial?
KIM: I didn't tell them. It's the job of a journalist to be independent.
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Bridge to Mister Neelix. You have an incoming transmission.
NEELIX: I'm heading for my quarters. Put it through there.
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Yes, sir.

[Neelix's quarters]
LAXETH (screen): Neelix, my friend. How are you?
NEELIX: Laxth, you old dilithium scrubber. It's good to see you. Calling to trade me some of your ill-gotten goods again? I promise you, I never want to see another wheel of Pendrashian cheese.
LAXETH (screen): Those days are behind me. I'm legitimate now. I'm communications master of a Talaxian convoy.
NEELIX: Communications master? Well, you've certainly come up in the world. Congratulations.
LAXETH (screen): Looks like I'll be seeing you in a few days.
NEELIX: How's that?
LAXETH (screen): We've been asked to rendezvous with your ship. We're going to pick up a passenger.
NEELIX: Passenger? We don't carry any passengers.
LAXETH (screen): Apparently, it's a member of your crew. All I know is someone wants to leave your ship and come to work for us.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Just how, exactly, did you hear that someone was leaving the ship?
NEELIX: An old friend of mine is serving with a Talaxian convoy. He told me they'd be rendezvousing with us in a few days.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok.
TUVOK (voiceover): Yes, Captain?
JANEWAY: Could you join us in my Ready room, please?
TUVOK (voiceover): Right away.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant, Mister Neelix has heard on good authority that one of our crew will be leaving the ship in a few days. Naturally, he's curious about the identity of this person. What are the security issues here?
TUVOK: I don't believe there are any serious concerns, Captain. There is no need to withhold this information any longer.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Paris has asked to be put off the ship.
NEELIX: Tom?
JANEWAY: I'm sure you're aware that he's had some problems lately.
NEELIX: Well, yes.
TUVOK: He has been disruptive, and often sets a bad example for the rest of the crew.
NEELIX: But he seemed so determined to get those things behind him. It means a lot to him to be respected by this crew.
JANEWAY: All I can tell you is that when he was relieved of duty, he asked me to make arrangements for him to leave the ship. I tried to talk him out of it, but he was adamant. We detected the Talaxian convoy, and they were more than happy to get a pilot of Tom's ability.
NEELIX: I can't believe this. I never thought. Captain, may I speak with him?
JANEWAY: Of course. He's in his quarters.

[Paris' quarters]
PARIS: Come in.
NEELIX: Hello, Tom.
PARIS: Neelix! How's it going? Not good, it looks like. What's wrong?
NEELIX: I hear you're leaving the ship?
PARIS: Good news travels fast, I guess. Yeah, I figured there was quite a bit more opportunity for advancement on a Talaxian convoy than there was on the only Starfleet ship in the quadrant.
NEELIX: When did you make this decision?
PARIS: Truthfully? About a minute and a half after I set foot on this ship a year ago. I knew it was a mistake to try to fit into Starfleet again, and I should have listened to myself. A few more months in that rehab colony would have been a hell of a lot better than being here.
NEELIX: Tom, you and I have had our differences, but I thought we put those behind us. I just hope I haven't contributed to your decision?
PARIS: Neelix, no. This isn't about anybody except me. I've done this to myself, just like always. No matter where I go or who I'm with, I make a mess of things. The unmistakable conclusion has to be that deep down, I don't want any friends, or a family, or a home. Otherwise, I wouldn't keep sabotaging the possibilities.
NEELIX: I thought you found those things here.
PARIS: I tried. Or maybe I just told myself I was trying. I'm not sure. Either way, it's just not working. Frankly, I'd like to get out before I completely destroy my image. There might actually be one or two people who still have a good opinion of me.
NEELIX: I'm one of them, Tom. And I wish you wouldn't go.
PARIS: Well, I thank you. But the truth is, I've always considered myself a drifter. You know what that's like, Neelix. Freedom to do what you want, when you want. No rules to follow, nobody depending on you, right?

[Mess hall]
EMH (screen): Well, there you are. I've been waiting for what seems like hours.
NEELIX: Doctor, what can I do for you?
EMH (screen): I want to discuss the details of my participation on your program. I've been giving it a great deal of thought, and I've come up with a number of ideas I think you'll find quite intriguing.
NEELIX: Well, that's good news, I-I'm delighted you've decided to become a contributor. But I'm afraid I don't have time to discuss it right now.
EMH (screen): But I've already prepared today's topic. How to keep your nostrils happy.
NEELIX: That is fascinating, but I'm afraid there's a more important story I have to work on today.
EMH (screen): You mean I'm not going to appear today?
NEELIX: When you see it, I'm sure you will understand.
EMH (screen): Hmm. But I will be on tomorrow?
NEELIX: Definitely. Without fail. I promise you.
EMH (screen): Very well. But tomorrow I'll want to cover two topics. I have a most entertaining idea. Uncovering the hidden mysteries of the adrenal gland.
NEELIX: Fine. Fine. Good bye, Doctor.

[On monitor]
NEELIX: Good morning, Voyager. I want to tell you about a friend of mine. I first met this man almost a year ago, and tell you the truth, I didn't like him much. He seemed a little too cocky, a little too sure of himself. A lot of people had questions about him. He'd proven he'd pretty much sell himself out to the highest bidder, go wherever the wind blew him, so people wondered, could you trust this person when things got tough? Would he stand side by side with you, or would he let you down when you needed him most? But the fact of the matter is, he proved himself right from the beginning. I wouldn't be alive right now if it weren't for him. And the same goes for many of you. It took me a while to realize it. Like a lot of people, I was too caught up in first impressions to see the truth that was right in front of me. I overlooked his bravery because I was focusing of his brashness. I ignored his courage because I saw it as arrogance. And I resented his friendliness because I mistook it for licentiousness. So while this man was giving us his best every minute of every day, I was busy judging him. And now he's leaving. I'm proud to say that in spite of my narrow-mindedness, Thomas Eugene Paris became my friend. I'm going to miss him. No more laughs over a game of pool. No more sitting up into the wee hours swapping stories. No more complaints about my cooking. Goodbye, Tom. I think I speak for more of us than you might imagine when I say you're going to leave an empty space when you go. I hope you find what you're looking for.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Lieutenant, Operations has detected a minute increase in the engine core temperature. Are you aware of it?
TORRES: Yes, Captain. There's a slight imbalance in the magnetic constrictors. It's causing the plasma stream to overheat. I have a team working on it.
JANEWAY: Keep me posted. Mister Neelix, I'm very pleased with your program, especially your tribute to Lieutenant Paris.
NEELIX: Thank you.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, have you decided who's going to replace Paris?
JANEWAY: I have several people in mind. Baytart is one. Hamilton.
KIM: Captain, do you think? I mean, it's possible Tom might change his mind to come back. Maybe you shouldn't replace him so quickly.
JANEWAY: Harry, Lieutenant Paris made his decision with no indication that he had any doubts about it, or that he might change his mind in the near future. We have to accept that and move on. What's our tactical status?
TUVOK: All systems are functional.
JONAS (voiceover): Engineering to Torres.
TORRES: Go ahead.
JONAS (voiceover): We have a problem here.
TORRES: What is it?
JONAS (voiceover): The magnetic

[Engineering]
JONAS: Constrictors have lost alignment. The plasma stream is way too hot. It's starting to infect

[Briefing room]
JONAS (voiceover): The injector valves.
TORRES: I'm on my way.
JANEWAY: We're finished here. Dismissed.
NEELIX: Lieutenant, if I may? This sounds like news of substance to me.
TORRES: Just stay out of our way.

[Engineering]
JONAS: It's gotten worse, I can't get the injector valves closed. Antimatter's starting to seep into the warp core.
TORRES: Have you tried adjusting the power transfer conduits?
JONAS: Yes. No effect.
TORRES: We have to try to contain the reaction in the core. Don't let the PTC temperature get above three point two million Kelvins.
JONAS: It's at two point nine million now.
JONAS: PTC temperature now at three million Kelvins. We're going to have to vent some plasma.
TORRES: If you vent some plasma that hot through the nacelles, the warp coils are going to fry.
JONAS: Better that than a core breach!
TORRES: Reinforce the structural field around the power transfer conduits, and then prepare to begin venting plasma!
JONAS: PTC temperature now three point two million Kelvins.
TORRES: It's cascading. Get away from that console!
JONAS: I can stop it from here!
TORRES: Get away, Jonas!
TORRES: Computer, initiate plasma venting!
NEELIX: Are we all right?
TORRES: PTC temperature is dropping. Approaching safe levels. We're under control.
NEELIX: Neelix to Sickbay. Prepare for emergency transport. We have three wounded.

[Sickbay]
EMH: This one's not badly hurt. Twenty milligrams impedrazine.
KES: Vital signs steady. Second degree burns to face and chest.
EMH: Treat him with the dermal regenerator. Ah, the situation has been stabilized. None of the victims is in danger any longer.
NEELIX: May I interview one of them now?
EMH: One of the patients? I'd think you'd be more interested in my assessment of the medical situation.
NEELIX: Well, I am, of course. Would you care to make a statement?
EMH: Yes. The first task is to triage, or to assess the relative condition of each of the victims, and then to prioritize treatment accordingly.
NEELIX: Thank you, Doctor. I'm sure that will be of great interest to the crew.
EMH: I wasn't finished. Next, the treatment per se must be supervised
NEELIX: Very interesting. Now, I know the crew would love to hear a few words from the man who risked his life to save the ship. Would you consent to an interview?
JONAS: I was just doing my job, Neelix. Lieutenant Torres is the one you should talk to.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Neelix.
NEELIX: Ah. Right here, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Could you join us on the Bridge, please?
NEELIX: I'm on my way. I'll contact you later about the interview.
EMH: Er.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: The plasma burst irradiated the engine nacelles. The inner layer of the warp coils was burned away.
TORRES: Which means the warp engines are useless until we can rebuild them.
CHAKOTAY: They're made from a substance known as verterium cortenide. Do you know where we can find a source?
NEELIX: Verterium cortenide, if I'm not mistaken, that's a densified composite material.
TORRES: That's right. It's composed of polysilicate verterium and monocrystal cortenum.
JANEWAY: Do you know any nearby source?
NEELIX: Let's see. Er, there's a yellow dwarf system called Hemikek with an M-class planet quite rich in minerals. Mining rights belong to a consortium of non-aggressive people. I'm sure we could make arrangements to purchase some verterium and cortenum.
JANEWAY: Good work, Neelix.
KIM: Captain, message coming in from the Talaxian convoy.
JANEWAY: Put it on screen.
LAXETH (screen): Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: What's happened?
LAXETH (screen): We were attacked by the Kazon-Nistrim.
JANEWAY: Do you have casualties? How can we help?
LAXETH (screen): We have no serious casualties, and they didn't take any of our cargo. The one thing they were interested in was your former crewman, Thomas Paris. They took him aboard their ship and then left. I thought you'd want to know.

[Kazon ship]
SESKA: Tom Paris.
PARIS: Hello, Seska. You're looking radiantly maternal.
SESKA: In another month, Chakotay will have a son, or a daughter. I really didn't want to know which. Makes it more interesting, don't you think?
PARIS: I wouldn't know.
SESKA: I have no idea which one Chakotay would prefer. He and I rarely see eye to eye. You've had your problems with him lately, too. I know all about what's happened. Your sudden inability to be Starfleet's good boy.
PARIS: It's not sudden. I never really fit in there.
SESKA: Then Lieutenant Tom Paris was just a pretense?
PARIS: No. No, it was me trying very hard to be someone I finally couldn't be.
SESKA: I never liked you, Tom. I didn't trust you. I don't trust you now.
PARIS: I can assure you the feeling is mutual.
SESKA: Fine, but we might be able to help each other, if you're telling the truth.
PARIS: Is that why you kidnapped me and dragged me here, so we could be pals now?
SESKA: I thought it might make sense to you.
PARIS: And if it doesn't?
SESKA: The Kazon tend to be excessive in their use of force. It's nothing I can change. But I can promise you'll be well-treated on this ship if we decide we can work together.
PARIS: What exactly would that mean?
SESKA: You're an excellent pilot. We could make good use of your skills. And of course, you have information about Voyager that could be quite valuable.
PARIS: It seems to me like you're already getting a lot of valuable information about Voyager from somewhere.
SESKA: Think about it, Tom. Think about where you want to be when the Nistrim seize Voyager and start taking control of the quadrant sector by sector. Just let me know.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 49485.2. In spite of the fact that Tom Paris has been abducted by the Kazon, we must continue on course for the Hemikek system.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Something just doesn't make sense. I mean, he wasn't off the ship for a day when the Kazon attacked that convoy. How did they find out so fast that Tom was there?
KES: Maybe someone on the convoy told them.
NEELIX: A Talaxian convoy would never let the Kazon know where they are. That would be like committing suicide.
KES: Maybe they came to rob the cargo, but when they realized there was a Starfleet officer
NEELIX: That wouldn't have stopped them from taking the cargo too. And according to my friend Laxth, it was a swift, efficient strike. It sounds like they knew Tom was there, and they came just to get him.
KES: But who would've told them?
NEELIX: One possibility I can think of is that it was someone on this ship.
KES: On Voyager? Who would do that?
NEELIX: I don't know. But a responsible journalist would find out.

[Engineering]
NEELIX: B'Elanna! I didn't expect to find you here. Are you working the night shift?
TORRES: I have been since the accident.
NEELIX: Oh.
TORRES: What brings you here?
NEELIX: I was wondering if you could show me how to access the subspace communications logs.
TORRES: Why would you be interested in the comm. logs?
NEELIX: Well, just part of my news program.
TORRES: Well, I can get you into them, but then you're on your own. I'm still trying to bring the magnetic constrictors into alignment.
NEELIX: I understand. Just get me started.
TORRES: How far back do you want to go?
NEELIX: Oh, maybe a month or two.
TORRES: Okay. The file's open. Transmissions are logged on by date and time. Anything else?
NEELIX: No. I'll be fine. Thank you very much.
TORRES: Mike, we're going into the computer core to look over the magnetic constrictor circuitry. Hold down the fort. All right?
JONAS: Okay, Lieutenant.
NEELIX: Voyager to Mithren. Mithren again. Voyager to Kotati.
JONAS: Are you looking for something particular?
NEELIX: I, I don't know exactly what I'm looking for. Something anomalous.
JONAS: Why?
NEELIX: An incident I'm investigating. Tell me, Mister Hero. If someone wanted to make a secret subspace transmission, how would he do it?
JONAS: Why would you want to know that?
NEELIX: Oh, I can't be too forthcoming right now, but if I find what I think I'm going to, well, let me just say that this ship will be stunned.
JONAS: A secret transmission, huh? Well, that would be tough, Neelix. There are all kinds of security routines in place and anytime a subspace antenna array is in use, the sensors make a record of it. I'm not seeing anything anomalous here.
NEELIX: What about that?
JONAS: What?
NEELIX: That gap, as if some of the log entries have been deleted.
JONAS: Well, that's just a data fragmentation.
NEELIX: I beg your pardon?
JONAS: Well, it probably happened when the plasma overloaded the system. Little glitches like this'll be popping up for weeks, I'd imagine.
NEELIX: Here it is again.
JONAS: I wouldn't worry about it.
NEELIX: Maybe Lieutenant Torres can explain it.
JONAS: There's nothing to explain. Believe me, Neelix. You're making too much of it.
NEELIX: Ah. Here it is again. Gaps in the log entries. And frankly it looks like more than data fragmentation to me. The gaps are showing up in logs entered over the last months, but not before that.
EMH (screen): So, there you are. I've been looking for you, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Doctor! How can I help you?
EMH (screen): You again neglected to include me in your news program. If you remember, I was to have two segments today because I was excluded yesterday.
NEELIX: That's right, that's right. I've been so preoccupied with this other matter.
EMH (screen): In the interest of time, I'm willing to forgo my story on the adrenal gland. I will concentrate instead on my latest idea. The Klingon glottis, friend or foe?
NEELIX: That's very interesting, but we're going to have to put it off until tomorrow.
EMH (screen): That's what you said yesterday.
NEELIX: I'm sorry, Doctor, but I really have to go now.

[Tuvok's office]
NEELIX: All through the subspace communication logs, there were these gaps, as though something had been erased.
TUVOK: We have recently experienced a plasma overload. That could easily account for the anomalous readings in the logs.
NEELIX: Ah ha! I knew you'd say that. Answer this, Mister Vulcan. Why would those gaps, those deletions, occur only in the sub-com logs and only in the last month? I checked every log system we have. Sensor logs, power allocation logs, warp maintenance logs, environmental control logs. They're all perfectly fine.
TUVOK: What are you suggesting?
NEELIX: I believe someone on this ship has been making covert transmissions and erasing the evidence.
TUVOK: To what end?
NEELIX: I don't know, but I suspect whoever it was has been communicating with the Kazon.
TUVOK: That's an extremely serious charge.
NEELIX: I know. That's why I've come to you.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, I strongly suspect that your enthusiasm for your new journalistic endeavor is leading you to see villains where none exist. However, even the possibility that someone on board might secretly be communicating with the Kazon deserves investigation. I will pursue the matter.
NEELIX: And I will help you.
TUVOK: I think not. This is now a matter of ship security. I must ask you to withdraw and let me handle it according to Starfleet protocols.
NEELIX: As a journalist, I have an ethical obligation to keep digging for the facts in this case.
TUVOK: And I have the higher obligation to keep you from putting yourself and others at risk. You will drop this matter.
NEELIX: I see. All right, I leave it in your hands. Good hunting.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Higher obligation? Ha, I'll show him higher obligation. Huh, he'll have Eskarian egg on his face when I get to the heart of this. It's the job of a journalist to be independent.

[Engineering]
NEELIX: Lieutenant, I wonder if you could
TORRES: I'm a little busy right now, Neelix. What do you need?
NEELIX: I was wondering if it's possible to look underneath a log that seems to have been erased, to see if there's anything left of it.
TORRES: Mister Hogan, could you please help Neelix out for a minute?
HOGAN: You want to recover deleted logs?
NEELIX: Ah, that would be ideal.
HOGAN: Well, let me give it a try. Usually it's possible to recover data, unless extraordinary measures were taken to erase it. Now, this is strange. Computer, run a signal modulation analysis of this file.
COMPUTER: Security authorisation required.
HOGAN: Engineering authorisation omega four seven.
COMPUTER: Authorisation accepted. Running analysis.
NEELIX: What?
HOGAN: I can't recover the logs, because these messages were sent without using any of the antenna arrays.
NEELIX: How could someone do that?
HOGAN: By sending the transmissions through the ship's power grid. The messages were encoded in the waste energy from the propulsion systems, which is almost indistinguishable from galactic background noise.
NEELIX: Ingenious. Would there be a way to determine who sent the messages?
HOGAN: I'm looking for signal correlation traces. They'd indicate a comm. link to the EPS conduits, maybe give us a location. I don't know if I can. There. There's one. The source of the comm. link is on deck four, section three C. Sorry, but I can't get more specific than that.
JONAS: Mister Hogan, I need your help over here.
NEELIX: Thanks for your help. I'll check out deck four. Go room by room, console by console.
HOGAN: I'd look for evidence of recent deletions. If you see any, run a recovery program. See what you get.

[Paris' quarters]
NEELIX: Computer, activate monitor.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Monitor is cleared for Lieutenant Thomas Paris only.
NEELIX: Override existing clearance. Engineering authorisation omega four seven.
COMPUTER: Authorisation accepted. Files recovered.
NEELIX: Unbelievable.

[Ready room]
NEELIX (screen): My friends, I derive no satisfaction from what I am about to tell you. I know I originally promised you that I would only bring you good news. However, I feel it's important that you know the truth. I have uncovered evidence that casts serious doubt on the loyalties of Lieutenant Thomas Paris. I have discovered secret communications to the Kazon that were sent from his quarters just prior to his leaving the ship.
JANEWAY: Get him up here now.
NEELIX (screen): There was a series of messages sent to the Kazon for some weeks before his departure, the last
JANEWAY: How did you trace those transmissions to Tom's quarters?
NEELIX: It was, er, I believe it was called signal correlation traces. Mister Hogan was helping me, and he detected them.
TUVOK: When I looked for signal correlation traces, there were none. That means someone placed them in the system after my initial investigation.
CHAKOTAY: What initial investigation? Captain, what's going on?
JANEWAY: What I'm about to say will come as a surprise to you, Commander. There has been a spy aboard Voyager, but it isn't Tom Paris.
NEELIX: It isn't?
PARIS: No. Lieutenant Paris is in fact part of our plan.
CHAKOTAY: Plan.
JANEWAY: Some weeks ago, Tuvok discovered evidence of covert transmissions leaving Voyager through the EPS system. We realized there was someone on this ship communicating with the Kazon-Nistrim.
TUVOK: However, we were unable to ascertain who that person was.
JANEWAY: We needed a way to flush out the spy, and we had exhausted all conventional means. That's when we thought of using Tom, finding a way to get him on the Kazon ship.
CHAKOTAY: Are you saying Paris's insulting behavior, the gambling, being late for duty, mouthing off at me, was all a ruse?
TUVOK: That is correct. It was important that his decision to leave the ship appear plausible, so he began behaving like a malcontent.
CHAKOTAY: And the reason I wasn't let in on this little plan?
TUVOK: I was the one who recommended to Captain Janeway that you not be told. I suspected that the spy was a Maquis, and felt it was wrong to put you in a position of setting a trap for someone who had once served under you.
CHAKOTAY: In other words, you didn't trust me.
JANEWAY: Commander, the simple fact is, we needed a good performance. I'm afraid we used you to help Tom provide it. And you did a damn good job. Now it seems Mister Neelix's investigation has made someone nervous. Nervous enough to put a trail in the computer system for him to follow.
CHAKOTAY: Could it be Hogan?
NEELIX: I don't think so. He was just the person walking by who Lieutenant Torres asked to help me.
JANEWAY: The spy may be a little cozy now, since you took the bait and pointed the finger at Tom. But we don't want him cozy. I'd rather he feel some pressure.
TUVOK: Perhaps we should take advantage of Mister Neelix's unintentional blunder.
JANEWAY: Exactly. I want you to keep investigating, Neelix. Do what you've been doing. Poke around, ask questions. But let people think you're not so sure you were right about Tom Paris.
CHAKOTAY: That would put Neelix in a potentially dangerous situation.
TUVOK: We would keep an open comm. link to you at all hours. My security team could act immediately if anything were to happen.
JANEWAY: It's up to you, Neelix. This is purely voluntary.
NEELIX: Anything I can do to help, Captain, and get Tom home safely, I want to do.

[Kazon ship]
SESKA (voiceover): What did you expect? Did you think this has all been about exchanging holiday greetings?
JONAS (screen): No, of course not. But I
SESKA (voiceover): This is how it's going to work. We'll be waiting for you on a planet called Hemikek four.
SESKA: Well, Tom. It's always good to have one's instincts verified.
PARIS: Clever plan, Seska, leading Voyager into an ambush. But even so, this ship will be outmanned and outgunned.
SESKA: That's why we have ground troops on Hemikek and more ships on the way. Now don't you wish you'd taken my offer?
PARIS: Thanks for the hospitality.
SESKA: Go get him!
KAZON: Check this way!

[Engineering]
JONAS: Lieutenant Torres is waiting for these interlink sequencers. Get them to her right away.
CREWWOMAN: Yes, sir.
NEELIX: Excuse me.
JONAS: Oh, hello, Neelix.
NEELIX: I was wondering if one of you could help me.
JONAS: We're a little busy right now. What is it that you need?
NEELIX: The signal correlation traces that implicated Tom Paris. They were added to the file after the fact.
HOGAN: You're kidding.
NEELIX: So I was trying to figure out how that could have happened, and who might have done it.
HOGAN: This couldn't be a worse time, Neelix. We're getting everything ready for rebuilding the warp coils.
NEELIX: Do you mind if I use the diagnostic terminal over there?
JONAS: Go ahead. Just don't tap into any engineering systems.
NEELIX: I'll be careful.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to Engineering.
JONAS: Jonas here, Lieutenant.
TORRES (voiceover): I need the electrodynamic load specs. They weren't with the other things you sent.
JONAS: Sorry, Lieutenant. I'll get them to you right now. Take these to Lieutenant Torres.
HOGAN: Right.
NEELIX: What's going on?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Bridge to Engineering.
JONAS: Jonas here, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): I need you to increase transporter range. Shunt all available

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Power to Transporter room two.
JONAS (voiceover): Right away.
JANEWAY: Let me know as soon as you've done it. We have an incoming shuttle, and we've identified human life signs.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): It may be Tom Paris.
JONAS: Yes, ma'am.

[Kazon shuttle]
PARIS: Paris to Voyager. Paris to Voyager! Do you read me yet? Paris to Voyager!

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): Paris to Voyager! Come in!
JANEWAY: Voyager to Paris. We hear you.

[Kazon shuttle]
PARIS: Captain, change your course immediately. The Kazon have ground troops waiting for you on

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): Hemikek and more ships on the way.
JANEWAY: We'll get you out of there as soon as we can, Tom. You're still out of transporter range, but we won't change course

[Kazon shuttle]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Until we've locked onto you.
PARIS: I can take care of myself.

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): Just get Voyager to safety!
JANEWAY: As soon as you're on board. Tom, what happened? Are you all right?

[Kazon shuttle]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Lieutenant Paris, report.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Jonas, we need that transporter now.

[Engineering]
JONAS: I'm working on it, Captain. I'm having trouble resetting the EPS manifold.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Stay on it.
NEELIX: Mister Jonas, I'm no expert, but it doesn't look to me like you're working on the transporter subsystems.
JONAS: Neelix, I know what I'm doing.
NEELIX: What did you do? What is this forcefield for?
JONAS: It's just a precaution. Please, Neelix! Stay out of this!

[Kazon shuttle]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Tom, can you hear me? Report.
PARIS: I'm here, Captain!
JANEWAY (voiceover): We'll be in normal transporter range in another minute.
PARIS: Captain, the spy, it's Michael Jonas.

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): He's the one that sabotaged the ship.
JANEWAY: Noted. Janeway to Tuvok. Get to Engineering immediately. It's Michael Jonas.
TUVOK (voiceover): On our way.

[Kazon shuttle]
PARIS: The shuttle hull is starting to breach. It might not make it, Captain.

[Engineering]
NEELIX: I recognize that subroutine. You're into the weapons system. You're disabling them!
JONAS: For God's sake, Neelix, back off!
NEELIX: Neelix to

[Bridge]
KIM: We're in transporter range, Captain.
JANEWAY: Voyager to Paris.

[Kazon shuttle]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Tom, can you hear me? We're energizing now.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Transporter room two, do you have him?
CREWMAN (voiceover): We have him, Captain. He's all right.
KIM: It's the Kazon ship, Captain.
JANEWAY: Return fire. Janeway to Tuvok. Are you in Engineering yet?
TUVOK (voiceover): The doors are sealed. We're working on it, Captain.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Transporter room two. Lock onto Mister Jonas in Engineering and beam him out of there.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Aye, Captain. All I got was his comm. badge, Captain.
KIM: Captain, we've lost weapons. It looks like the phaser arrays have been disabled from Engineering.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers, Ensign. Mister Kim, get those weapons back online.
KIM: Weapons are back online, Captain.
JANEWAY: Fire at will.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.

[Engineering]
TUVOK: Are you injured?
NEELIX: Don't worry about me, Mister Vulcan. I'm perfectly all right. Unfortunately, Mister Jonas wasn't so lucky.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Bridge to Tuvok. I'm standing down Red alert.
NEELIX: Well, I'm going to have plenty of material for tomorrow's Briefing With Neelix.

[On monitor]
PARIS: And fortunately I was able to steal one of the Kazon shuttles and escape.
NEELIX: An amazing story. Amazing.
PARIS: I'd like to say something more, if I might.
NEELIX: Of course.
PARIS: Er, I know that I've been acting like a jerk for the last couple of months. Unfortunately, I had to behave that way if the spy was going to believe that I really wanted to leave the ship. So, I'd like to apologize to anyone that I might have offended. Especially Commander Chakotay. I gave him a pretty hard time. Not that it wasn't a certain amount of fun, mind you.
NEELIX: There you have it, ladies and gentlemen, the true hero of this whole endeavor, Lieutenant Thomas Eugene Paris. Well, I'm afraid that's all the time we have. Oh, I'd like to apologize to the Doctor for not getting around to him once again today. But I promise you he'll be here tomorrow with lots of fascinating information about the Bolian digestive system. Good day, Voyager.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Good afternoon, Ensign. How are we doing today?
WILDMAN: Oh, we're doing just fine, thank you.
NEELIX: Good, good. By the way, I was wondering if you'd take a look at the thermal array in the kitchen. It overloaded this morning and vaporized an entire pot roast.
WILDMAN: I'd be happy to.
NEELIX: Wonderful. I informed Ensign Kim about the problem hours ago, and he still hasn't come down to fix it.

[Kitchen]
WILDMAN: He's been working on a problem with the structural integrity grid. I'm sure he hasn't forgotten about you.
NEELIX: If this thing doesn't get fixed soon, we'll all be eating cold leftovers for dinner and who do you think the crew will blame?
WILDMAN: Looks like you need a new set of anodyne relays. I'll go down to Engineering and get some for you out of storage.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Thanks. Oh, and while you're here, would you mind taking a look at the replicator? It's been having trouble making anything with large amounts of cellulose.
WILDMAN: Of course.
NEELIX: Cabbages, psyllium, green beans, celery and all. It all comes out looking a touch too yellow.
WILDMAN: I thought you didn't use replicated vegetables when you're cooking. Always fresh, organic, from the airponic bay.
NEELIX: Well, the yields have been a little low lately. Normally, I would never dream of using synthesized veggies.
WILDMAN: It looks like a malfunction in the power grid. Shouldn't be too difficult.
NEELIX: What's wrong?
WILDMAN: I think I'm having a contraction. Oh, yeah! It's a contraction, all right.
NEELIX: That's wonderful. Labor can't be far behind. Let's, let's get you to Sickbay. Try to breathe now. Deep, deep regular breaths. Not so fast now. We're having a baby.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Push!
KES: Don't forget to breathe, Samantha. Deep regular breaths. That's it.
EMH: Cervical dilation is at ten point two centimeters. Prostaglandin levels are normal. Push, Ensign.
WILDMAN: You push, damn it! I'm sick of pushing!
EMH: I know you're fatigued. Try to focus on your breathing. Remember the exercises we did. When you feel a contraction, bear down.

[Bridge]
PARIS: This is ridiculous. It's been seven hours. How long does it take to deliver a baby?
JANEWAY: As long as it takes, Mister Paris.
TUVOK: Indeed. During the birth of our third child, my wife was in labor for ninety six hours.
KIM: Four days?
TUVOK: I have learned that pregnancy and patience go hand in hand.
CHAKOTAY: You know, I didn't expect to be this nervous. It's not even my child.
JANEWAY: In a way, this child belongs to all of us. It is the first baby born on Voyager. I'm just not sure whether I should be welcoming it on board, or apologizing.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: Voyager isn't exactly anyone's idea of a nursery, and the Delta Quadrant isn't much of a playground.
CHAKOTAY: My father had a saying, Captain. Home is wherever you happen to be.
TUVOK: Captain, long-range sensors are picking up heavy subspace communications ahead. They're Vidiian.
JANEWAY: All stop. A ship?
TUVOK: At least twenty ships within sensor range. I am also detecting a G type star system with two inhabited planets. Life signs, Vidiian.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds like we're headed right into their territory.
JANEWAY: And I'm in no mood to donate any organs today. Options, Mister Paris?
PARIS: There's a large plasma drift bearing four zero mark seven. It extends almost half the length of this sector. Interference from the plasma should block us from their sensors.
JANEWAY: Good thinking. Lay in a course at full impulse. Mister Tuvok, deflectors at maximum.

[Sickbay]
WILDMAN: Oh! Oh, what was that?
EMH: What's wrong?
WILDMAN: A pain in my abdomen. It's different. Sharp. Oh, God!
EMH: The baby has shifted position, and its exo-cranial ridges have lodged in the uterine wall. This is a rare complication, but it's been known to happen in human Ktarian pregnancies.
KES: Can we reposition the baby?
EMH: No. Its spinal column is too fragile. I don't want to risk nerve damage. If we don't deliver the baby now, its ridges could perforate the uterus and cause internal bleeding. Kes, prepare for a fetal transport.

[Bridge]
PARIS: We're clearing the Vidiian system, Captain.
JANEWAY: Take us out of the plasma drift and resume our previous course.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've locked onto the baby's coordinates. We're ready to begin. Initiating umbilical separation. Energizing.
EMH: Congratulations, Ensign. It's a girl.
WILDMAN: Is she all right?
EMH: The transport caused a slight hemocythemic imbalance, but we'll stabilize her cell membranes with osmotic pressure therapy.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What was that?
KIM: We hit some kind of subspace turbulence as we were coming out of the plasma drift. I can't tell if
PARIS: What the hell? Captain, the warp engines just stalled.
JANEWAY: Go to impulse.
PARIS: Impulse engines aren't responding. Maneuvering thrusters are out too.
KIM: We're losing main power. Switching to backup power.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Bridge to Engineering.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Report.
TORRES: Our antimatter supply is being drained, Captain. I don't know why. The containment fields are in place. It's like we sprung a leak, but I can't find the crack.
JANEWAY (voiceover): B'Elanna

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Try infusing the warp core with repeated proton bursts. That should be enough to keep it going.
TORRES (voiceover): I think

[Engineering]
TORRES: I can generate enough protons in the sensor array for a burst every thirty seconds.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Do it.
TORRES: Hogan! These proton bursts are going to cause a lot of stress on the hull. Reinforce structural integrity to, now what?

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: What was that?
TUVOK: It appeared to be a proton burst.
JANEWAY: Already? Bridge to Torres. Report. Engineering, respond.
KIM: Captain, three EPS conduits just ruptured in Engineering. They took heavy casualties.

[Sickbay]
EMH: The incubator is losing power. Activate the auxiliary respirator.
CREWMAN: We've got wounded here.
EMH: Second degree plasma burns on the face and neck. Treat him with a dermaline gel.
CREWMAN: Yes, sir.
EMH: Fractured clavicle, thoracic contusions, nothing serious. She can wait. Fused vertebrae. Prep him for surgery. Status?
KES: It doesn't look good, Doctor. The baby's cell membranes won't stabilize.
EMH: Increase the osmotic
EMH: That's not helping. Increase the osmotic pressure ratio by ten percent.
KIM (voiceover): Bridge to Sickbay, there's been a major coolant leak in the Mess hall. You've got more wounded on the way.
EMH: Acknowledged.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Torres to Bridge! We're definitely being, we're definitely being hit by proton bursts. But I don't know where they're coming from. I never even started the procedure.

[Bridge]
KIM: She's right. The main sensor array is offline. Not a single burst was fired.
JANEWAY: And yet the bursts appear to be originating from within the ship. It's like they're coming out of thin air.
TUVOK: Captain, these bursts are weakening the structural integrity of the hull. We cannot take any more.
JANEWAY: Can we increase power to structural reinforcement?
KIM: Our antimatter supply is too low. There's just not enough power to go
TUVOK: Hull breach on deck fifteen, section twenty nine alpha. Emergency force fields are offline.
KIM: Captain, I've been working on a way to enhance our portable forcefield generators. It might be enough to seal that breach.
JANEWAY: Go.

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: Don't you worry. We have the best doctor in the quadrant.
KES: Doctor, her cell membranes are losing cohesion.
EMH: Try remodulating the osmotic pressure.
KES: No effect.
EMH: Hang on. I'll be right there.
EMH: Oh, no.

[Corridor]
KIM: Jefferies tube twelve runs right over the breach. If we can get close enough, we should be able to set up a portable containment field.
HOGAN: The breach has weakened the integrity of that tube by twenty two percent.
TORRES: That's why we need to reinforce the field. We'll use the power conduits on this deck.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I've analyzed the bursts on all spectral frequencies. There's still no indication of where they're coming from.
JANEWAY: At this point, I don't give a damn where they're coming from. I just want to stop them. Chakotay, do we have enough auxiliary power to magnetize the hull? It might cushion the impact of the bursts.
CHAKOTAY: We have just barely enough.
JANEWAY: Give it a try.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've stabilized my imaging array but it could go out at any time.
WILDMAN: Doctor?
EMH: Prepare for emergency resuscitation.
WILDMAN: My baby, she, she's going to die, isn't she?
EMH: Not if I can help it.

[Jefferies tube]
KIM: Here it is. The breach is directly below us.
TORRES: Make it fast, Harry. Torres to Hogan. What's your status?

[Corridor]
HOGAN: Almost got it, Lieutenant. I'm rerouting all power in this section to your

[Jefferies tube]
TORRES: Torres to Hogan. Hogan

[Corridor]
TORRES (voiceover): Are you there?
HOGAN: I'm hurt.

[Jefferies tube]
TORRES: Hurry, we have to help him.
KIM: Just give me a minute.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Again.
KES: Nothing.
EMH: I'm sorry, Ensign.

[Corridor]
HOGAN: Hogan to Sickbay. I need medical assistance. Deck fifteen, section twenty nine.

[Sickbay]
KES: I'll go.

[Jefferies tube]
TORRES: The breach is widening. Let's get out of here. Damn it, Harry! Let's go!
KIM: Hold on. My minute isn't up yet.
TORRES: Harry, grab my hand!
TORRES: Harry!

[Corridor]
KES: Lieutenant Hogan?
TORRES: Kes, over here.
TORRES: Torres to Bridge. Ensign Kim is dead.

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): Kes just disappeared.
JANEWAY: Disappeared?
TORRES (voiceover): I can't explain it.

[Corridor]
TORRES: She just vanished. There seems to be some kind of spatial rift.

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): Right where she disappeared.
JANEWAY: Can you determine where it leads?

[Corridor]
TORRES: Stand by, Bridge. I just threw a piece of conduit into the rift. Just as it vanished, I detected another

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): Oxygen nitrogen atmosphere.
JANEWAY: Another atmosphere?

[Corridor]
TORRES: Whatever's on the other side of that rift, there's air. Maybe Kes is still alive.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Get out of there, Torres. The hull breach is widening. I'm going to evacuate the

[Corridor]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Entire deck.
TORRES: You don't have to tell me twice.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Main computer core is failing. Switching to back up processors.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, are you ready to magnetize the hull?
CHAKOTAY: Stand by. I'm having trouble with the alignment module.
JANEWAY: Try remodulating the field emitters.
JANEWAY: Chakotay!
CHAKOTAY: I've got alignment. Magnetizing the hull.
CHAKOTAY: I think it worked.
JANEWAY: Let's hope so. I want a full damage report from all decks.
PARIS: Are you all right, Captain?
JANEWAY: It's just a scratch.
PARIS: It's more than a scratch. Maybe you should go to
JANEWAY: I'm fine, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: Damage reports are coming in. The hull breach on deck fifteen has widened to include deck fourteen, section twelve. And there are six hundred thirty two micro-fractures along the hull's infrastructure. All primary systems are offline. We are running on emergency power only. The antimatter supply has dropped to eighteen percent and is continuing to fall. Warp coils in both nacelles have fused and are inoperative. The environmental control systems are failing. Fifteen crew members have been seriously wounded with plasma burns, twenty seven experienced other injuries. The Doctor is setting up triage facilities in Sickbay and Holodeck two. I must also regretfully report that Ensign Wildman's baby did not survive.
JANEWAY: I want an engineering team to seal those micro-fractures before they become breaches.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, grab a medical tricorder and go assist the Doctor.
PARIS: Right.
JANEWAY: Commander, you have the Bridge. I'm going to go talk to Ensign Wildman. Maybe I can help.
CHAKOTAY: The magnetic field is collapsing. The hull is depolarizing!
TUVOK: The fire suppression system is out.
COMPUTER: Warning. Hull breach on deck one. Emergency forcefields inoperative.
CHAKOTAY: Everybody out! Go, go, go! Hurry, Captain!
JANEWAY: I'm trying to reroute emergency power to the field emitters!
CHAKOTAY: Captain!
JANEWAY: I can seal this breach!
CHAKOTAY: Captain, let's go!

[Voyager 2 - Bridge]
CHAKOTAY 2: Captain?
JANEWAY 2: Ensign Kim, scan the Bridge. I just saw myself cross the Bridge and enter that turbolift. It was very faint, almost like a ghost image. And I looked like hell.
KIM 2: Captain, there was a minor spatial fluctuation on the Bridge. But it was only there for a millisecond.
JANEWAY 2: Bridge to Engineering. B'Elanna, how long until we can use the main sensor array?
TORRES 2 (voiceover): Another three hours.

[Voyager 2 - Engineering]
JANEWAY 2: We're only about halfway through the proton burst procedure.

[Voyager 2 - Bridge]
JANEWAY 2: See if you can speed up the process. We need the sensors as soon

[Voyager 2 - Engineering]
JANEWAY 2 (voiceover): as possible.
TORRES 2: Understood.

[Voyager 2 - Bridge]
JANEWAY 2: Mister Kim, modify a tricorder to scan for spatial anomalies. Go over every centimeter of this Bridge. Examine the sensor logs from our trip through the plasma drift. Look for anything unusual. I'll be in Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY 2: Aye, Captain.

[Voyager 2 - Sickbay]
EMH 2: Good news, Ensign. Our baby is perfectly healthy. There's no sign of any interspecies abnormalities.
WILDMAN 2: Our baby?
EMH 2: A figure of speech. I am, in part, responsible for bringing her into the world. You may hold her now.
WILDMAN 2: Hello there.
JANEWAY 2: Congratulations, Samantha. She's adorable. Have you thought of a name?
WILDMAN 2: Not yet. I really thought it would be a boy.
JANEWAY 2: Let me know as soon as you decide. I've been making a blanket for her. All that's missing is an initial. Get some rest. How's our other patient doing?
EMH 2: She's still unconscious.
KES 2: I ran a microcellular scan. We're almost identical in every way.
JANEWAY 2: Almost?
EMH 2: There's a slight phase shift in her DNA. Do you have any theory about where she came from?
JANEWAY 2: Not yet. But I intend to find out. Can you wake her?
EMH 2: I believe so.
JANEWAY 2: Good, because I think she's going to have an interesting story to tell.
KES: I was running through the corridor with my medkit. Deck fifteen. And then suddenly I felt dizzy, and my vision started to blur. After that, I don't remember anything, until you woke me up just now.
KES 2: You were found unconscious down on deck fifteen, holding a medkit.
JANEWAY 2: We also found this lying next to you. It's a piece of damaged conduit. Our analysis shows it's from Voyager, deck fifteen, section twenty nine alpha, bulkhead zero five two. But there's no damage to deck fifteen or anywhere else on this ship.
KES: There was massive damage to deck fifteen.
JANEWAY 2: The evidence would seem to suggest that you've come from a different ship, a different Voyager. We did find a spatial rift on deck fifteen. It's possible that it somehow connects us to this other Voyager.
EMH 2: If you're right, where is the other ship? A parallel universe, another dimension, another point in time?
JANEWAY 2: I'm not sure. Almost everything about the Voyager Kes described is identical to ours. We've had similar experiences, similar personal histories. We both entered a plasma cloud to avoid the Vidiians. Both of our engines stalled as we left the cloud, which caused both of our antimatter supplies to drain. And then we both decided to keep our engines running by emitting proton bursts. But after that, our experiences diverged. We started emitting the proton bursts. They didn't.
KES 1: Our ship was being damaged by proton bursts. We couldn't figure out where they were coming from.
JANEWAY 2: That's more than a coincidence. Janeway to Engineering. B'Elanna, I want you to stop the proton bursts immediately.

[Voyager 2 - Engineering]
JANEWAY 2: But if we stop now, the power levels will drop
JANEWAY 2 (voiceover): I'll explain later, Lieutenant.
TORRES 2: Understood.

[Voyager 2 - Sickbay]
JANEWAY 2: I don't know how, but there's another Voyager out there, and I intend to find it.

[Voyager 2 - Bridge]
CHAKOTAY 2: We analyzed the sensor logs from our trip through the plasma cloud. We couldn't find anything unusual until we ran a quantum level analysis. Remember that subspace turbulence we hit just before we left the cloud?
JANEWAY 2: Yes.
CHAKOTAY 2: Well, watch what happens.
KIM 2: At first, we thought it was a sensor aberration, but they were in perfect calibration at the time.
TORRES 2: So I ran a multispectral analysis on the subspace turbulence. It was more than just turbulence. It was some kind of divergence field. And the moment we passed through it, all of our sensor readings doubled. Mass, energy output, bio-signatures, everything. Every particle of matter on this ship seems to have been duplicated in that instant.
JANEWAY 2: So where is the other ship?
KIM 2: As strange as it sounds, Captain, according to these readings, another Voyager's right here, right now, occupying the same point in space time we are.
JANEWAY 2: Quantum theorists at Kent State University ran an experiment in which a single particle of matter was duplicated using a divergence of subspace fields, a spatial scission.
CHAKOTAY 2: If the same forces were at work inside the plasma cloud, they may have duplicated every particle of matter on Voyager.
JANEWAY 2: Matter. But not antimatter.
KIM 2: Captain?
JANEWAY 2: In that Kent State experiment, they were able to duplicate normal matter, but when they tried to duplicate antimatter particles, the experiment failed.
TORRES 2: So the antimatter on the ships wasn't duplicated. Both engines have been trying to draw power from a single source of antimatter.
JANEWAY 2: Like Siamese twins linked at the chest, with only one heart.
CHAKOTAY 2: So what do we do?
JANEWAY 2: I don't know. But whatever it is, we're going to have to coordinate it with the other ship. Start working on a way to communicate with them.
TORRES 2: Right.
JANEWAY 2: The only link we know of is on deck fifteen, the spatial rift. We're going to need a way to send Kes back through safely.
KIM 2: We could rig a portable phase discriminator. It might protect her from the spatial transition.
JANEWAY 2: Get on it.

[Voyager 2 - Sickbay]
JANEWAY 2: When can I start breast feeding?
EMH 2: Right away. However, I should forewarn you that her incisors will erupt within three to four weeks. Since your skin lacks the scales of a Ktarian, we'll have to discuss alternatives.
WILDMAN 2: When can I take her home?
EMH 2: In twenty four hours. I want observe the infant to make sure there's no more damage to her cell membranes.
KES 2: You're welcome to stay the night so you may be with her.
WILDMAN 2: I'd like that. Hey.
EMH (voiceover): Congratulations, Ensign. It's a girl. I've stabilized my imaging array, but it could go out at any rate.
KES (voiceover): Doctor, her cell membranes are losing cohesion.
EMH (voiceover): Try remodulating the osmotic pressure.
KES (voiceover): No effect.
EMH (voiceover): Again.
KES (voiceover): Nothing.
WILDMAN (voiceover): My baby. She's going to die, isn't she?
EMH (voiceover): I'm sorry, Ensign.
WILDMAN (voiceover): She's going to die, isn't she?
EMH 2: Kes. Kes? Are you all right?
KES: Yes. It's just. The baby's crying, it was like a bad memory.
EMH 2: What do you mean?
KES: On my Voyager, during the delivery, there were complications. We performed a fetal transport.
EMH 2: The same thing happened here. The transport was successful.
KES: On my ship, the medical systems were heavily damaged. The osmotic pressure therapy didn't work. The baby died.
EMH 2: I'm sorry to hear that. But try to understand, it wasn't your fault. The situation was out of your control.
KES: Doctor, I've got to get back to my ship. They need my help.
EMH 2: The Captain's working on it, Kes. In the meantime, try to get some rest. Besides, I'm sure your Voyager is also equipped with a proficient Emergency Medical Hologram.

[Voyager 2 - Engineering]
JANEWAY 2: It's a little harder to establish a comm. link than I thought, Captain. The molecular signature of the second Voyager is slightly out of phase with our own. I can't get visual, audio, nothing.
JANEWAY 2: Have you tried remodulating the comm. frequency carrier?
TORRES 2: Five times on forty seven different frequencies.
JANEWAY 2: There has to be a way. If they were recalibrating their carrier wave at the same time so we could match phase variance, would that allow us to connect?
TORRES 2: I think so, but in order to get them to do that, we'd have to communicate with them first. It's the chicken and the egg.
JANEWAY 2: Maybe we need something a little more primitive. Is there a signal we could emit on all subspace bands just to get their attention?
TORRES 2: A rotating band pulse might do it, but it wouldn't be much more than a shrill whistle.
JANEWAY 2: That might be enough. Give it a try.

[Engineering]
TORRES: All right, Captain. All of the ship's command functions have been rerouted to main Engineering.
JANEWAY: Welcome to the new Bridge. Now, let's see about
JANEWAY: What's that?
TORRES: I don't know. It's some kind of com. emission coming through all subspace bands.
JANEWAY: Coming from where?
TORRES: Good question. I can't tell, but it's got a Federation signature.
JANEWAY: Try recalibrating our frequency carrier to match it.

[Voyager 2 - Engineering]
JANEWAY 2: That's it! They recalibrated and locked onto our phase variant.
JANEWAY 2: What kind of communication can we establish?
TORRES 2: Not much at this point. We can use the emergency encryption code for a short message. Not more than five seconds.
JANEWAY 2: That should be enough.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: That's the emergency code. Run it through an alphanumeric sequencer.
TORRES: I think someone's telling us to lock onto a frequency of twelve gigahertz.
JANEWAY: Do it.
TORRES: I'll try to clear it up.
JANEWAY 2 (screen): Captain, this isn't an illusion. What you're seeing is real, but it's going to take some explaining.
CHAKOTAY: There are two Voyagers and two crews?
JANEWAY: That's what I was told.
TUVOK: Could this possibly be some kind of subterfuge, Captain? An alien deception?
JANEWAY: That woman, whoever she is, had very specific knowledge of what happened here. The damage from the proton bursts, Wildman's baby, Kes disappearing. She even knew that when I was twelve years old, I walked home in a thunderstorm over seven kilometers because I lost a tennis match.
TORRES: And her explanation of how the ship were duplicated, certainly plausible.
PARIS: If it is true, what do we do about it?
JANEWAY: My counterpart has suggested we try to merge the two ships. Recreate the subspace divergence field we passed through and then depolarize it.
TORRES: Both ships would have to send out a massive resonance pulse from their deflector dishes at exactly the same time.
CHAKOTAY: They may be able to do that, but we barely have enough power for life support. How can we get enough to send an energy pulse of that size?
JANEWAY: We could evacuate all the crew to this deck, and cut off life support everywhere else. Then we could divert all power to the deflector dish. B'Elanna, re-establish the comm. link with the other ship.
JANEWAY 2 (screen): This is Janeway. What have you decided?
JANEWAY: Captain, we think we can channel enough energy to our deflector dish to try the merging process.
JANEWAY 2 (screen): Good. When can we start?
JANEWAY: We'll need at least fifteen minutes to make our preparations.
JANEWAY 2 (screen): We'll be ready.
JANEWAY: And Captain, we'll only have enough power to try this once.
JANEWAY 2 (screen): I understand.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, Tuvok, begin the evacuation process.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
PARIS: I'll let the Doctor know he'll have to rely on his back up power supply.
TORRES: We're ready, Captain.
JANEWAY 2 (screen): We're standing by, Captain. I think you should take the lead in this operation since you may have to make allowances for your ship's weakened power systems.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Lieutenant Torres and, Lieutenant Torres, charge the deflector dishes.
TORRES: Deflector dish charging.

[Voyager 2 - Engineering]
JANEWAY 2: Capacitance levels are rising. Sixty percent, eighty five percent, ninety eight percent. We're ready to create the subspace divergence field.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Initiating. Power flow nominal, Captain.
JANEWAY: Synchronize computer event timing. Ready to release depolarization pulse on my mark. Now.
TORRES: The pulses have been emitted, Captain. The fields are starting to depolarize.

[Voyager 2 - Engineering]
TORRES 2: But we aren't merging. In fact, we're going further out of phase!

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Increase power to the deflector dish.
TORRES: I can't! Too much plasma back flow. If we keep this up, we're going to lose our antimatter connection. We'll both be destroyed!
JANEWAY: Abort!

[Voyager 2 - Engineering]
JANEWAY 2: Aborting resonance pulse.
JANEWAY 2: What went wrong?
TORRES 2: I'm not sure. I think the plasma flow became to turbulent. The divergence fields were so chaotic, we couldn't complete the merging. We've lost the comm. link as well. Captain, the antimatter leak? It's becoming a hemorrhage. If we don't start the proton bursts, we'll be completely drained in thirty minutes.
JANEWAY 2: The lives of both crews are at stake here. I can't make unilateral decisions that might affect that other ship. Janeway to Kim. Is the spatial rift

[Voyager 2 - Bridge]
JANEWAY 2 (voiceover): Still stable?
KIM 2: I think so, Captain. And I've rigged a phase discriminator. Kes should be able to go back safely.

[Voyager 2 - Engineering]
JANEWAY 2: Rig another one, Ensign. I'm going with her.

[Voyager 2 - Turbolift]
KIM 2: This should protect you from the spatial transition.

[Voyager 2 - Corridor]
JANEWAY 2: Keep trying to re-establish a comm. link between the ships.
TORRES 2: I will, but remember, we have fewer than thirty minutes of antimatter left. Whatever you do over there, do it fast.
JANEWAY 2: Understood. Are you ready?
KES: Yes.

[Corridor]
KES 1: It's gotten worse here.
JANEWAY 2: Command and Control is in main Engineering. Let's go.

[Engineering]
TORRES: I don't know how else to stop the antimatter drain, except with proton bursts.
JANEWAY: We can't do that. We'd damage the other ship just like this one. Think, people. We need options.
JANEWAY 2: I agree, Captain. And I think we need to talk.
JANEWAY 2: By my estimates, our antimatter supply will run out in less than half an hour.
JANEWAY: The attempt to merge our ships is throwing us further out of phase. The quantum cohesion on both Voyagers is breaking down.
JANEWAY 2: Just like original Kent State experiment. The duplicate atoms couldn't occupy the same point in space time for very long before
JANEWAY: Mutual annihilation.
JANEWAY 2: What are our options?
JANEWAY: Let's try a different tact. Instead of trying to merge the two ships, let's try to separate them. Maybe we could divide the antimatter between us.
JANEWAY 2: I'm afraid not. We've been studying that theory. B'Elanna tells me that any attempt to disrupt the antimatter supply will destroy us all. What about evacuating your crew to my ship? It might get a little crowded, but we could manage.
JANEWAY: We've been studying that theory. And my B'Elanna tells me that sending any more than five to ten people through the rift would radically alter the atomic balance of the two Voyagers. We'd both be destroyed. Captain, I think you should return to your ship and run a metallurgical analysis. Find out the precise phase modulation of your hull. I'll do the same here. Maybe we can find a way to realign the phase displacement.
JANEWAY 2: You're going to self-destruct your ship.
JANEWAY: What makes you say that?
JANEWAY 2: Because that's what I would do if your Voyager were intact, and my Voyager were crippled, my crew wounded or dead. I'd sacrifice my ship so that yours could survive.
JANEWAY: Then I'm glad we agree. Go back to your ship.
JANEWAY 2: I didn't say I agree, I said I understand. I'm not willing to let you make that sacrifice yet. We haven't explored all the options.
JANEWAY: Yes, we have and we both know it. This is my ship and my decision.
JANEWAY 2: Captain, I'm not going to let you
JANEWAY: I've made my decision! Please don't make me call security and have you escorted off my ship, because you know I'll do it.
JANEWAY 2: All right. I'll go back. But give me fifteen minutes to come up with another solution. After that, it's your decision.
JANEWAY: Fifteen minutes. Good luck.
JANEWAY 2: To both of us.

[Voyager 2 - Bridge]
KIM 2: Okay, I've managed to re-establish a comm. link with the other Voyager.
JANEWAY 2: Hail them.
JANEWAY 2: Captain, I've got an idea. Actually, it was yours. It might be possible to realign the phase displacement between us.
JANEWAY (screen): We don't have time to try it. May plan is the only one that's going to work. It's time that we both accept that.

[Engineering]
PARIS: We've got a perimeter alert. A vessel is approaching, bearing zero zero five mark three one eight. They've just dropped out of warp.
CHAKOTAY: Can you identify them?
PARIS: They're Vidiian, sir.

[Voyager 2 - Bridge]
JANEWAY 2: Red alert.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Shields.
CHAKOTAY: Still off-line.

[Voyager 2 - Bridge]
JANEWAY (screen): Captain, we're picking up a Vidiian ship heading this way. Can you see them too?
JANEWAY 2: Yes.
JANEWAY (screen): Do you have any weapons?
JANEWAY 2: Stand by. Tuvok?
TUVOK 2: Negative, Captain. We had to reroute power to compensate for the antimatter loss. It would take several hours to bring weapons back online.

[Vidiian ship]
COMMANDER: What is it?
VIDIIAN: Their ship seems to be trapped in some sort of spatial flux.
COMMANDER: Have they detected us?
VIDIIAN: Yes. But they can't raise their shields. And it appears that whatever is happening to them has disrupted their weapon systems.
COMMANDER: Load a hypothermic charge. Fire.

[Engineering]
TUVOK: Captain, they have fired an energy weapon.

[Voyager 2 - Bridge]
TUVOK 2: All hands, brace for impact. Damage control teams, stand by.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: What happened? They couldn't have missed.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe they hit the other Voyager.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
TORRES: I've lost the comm. link again.
JANEWAY: Try to get it back.

[Vidiian Ship]
VIDIIAN: We have destroyed their weapons array.
COMMANDER: Maneuver us to within grappling range.

[Voyager 2 - Bridge]
TUVOK 2: They are cutting an access route through the hull on deck five.

[Voyager 2 - Corridor]
VIDIIAN: Vulcan. Male. The phaser blast damaged the right kidney, but the other organs are healthy.
SURGEON: Begin with them.

[Voyager 2 - Sickbay]
EMH 2: I've erected an emergency force field around Sickbay. That should hold them off for a while.
WILDMAN 2: I won't let them take my baby.
EMH 2: It's going to be all right, Ensign. Give her to me and I'll hide her inside an access port. If they do break in, it's unlikely they'll look for anyone there. Trust me, Ensign. I won't let anyone touch our baby.
WILDMAN 2: Mama will see you soon.
EMH 2: Lieutenant, give me a hand. Move this. We're going to have to cut away the internal circuitry to make room
KES 2: Vidiians. They're using some kind of disrupter to break down the forcefield. The forcefield's down.

[Voyager 2 - Bridge]
JANEWAY 2: Commander?
CHAKOTAY 2: They've got everything below deck five, and I don't know how much longer we can keep them away from the Bridge.
JANEWAY 2: Mister Kim, how many Vidiians are there on the ship?
KIM 2: Three hundred and forty seven, and more are boarding.
CHAKOTAY 2: We're outnumbered two to one.
KIM 2: I've got an incoming subspace signal. It's from the other Voyager. They must've re-established the comm. link.
JANEWAY 2: On screen.
JANEWAY (screen): Captain, this comm. link might not last much longer. What's happening over there?
JANEWAY 2: We've been boarded. The Vidiians are on the verge of taking over our ship. Are they on yours?
JANEWAY (screen): No. We don't think they can detect our ship. Captain, we can have a security detachment cross the spatial rift and board your ship within five minutes.
JANEWAY 2: No. If we do that, the Vidiians might become aware of your Voyager. That would put both ships at risk.
JANEWAY (screen): We can't just stand by and let you all be killed.
JANEWAY 2: I'm not about to let that happen. I'll destroy this ship.
JANEWAY (screen): I don't suppose there's any way I can change your mind. I know how stubborn you can be.
JANEWAY 2: True. But there is something else I can do for you. I'm going to send Harry Kim through the rift with Ensign Wildman's baby. Somehow, it seems only fair.
JANEWAY (screen): We'll be waiting for them.
JANEWAY 2: Just make me a promise, Kathryn. Get your crew home.
JANEWAY (screen): I will. I will.
JANEWAY 2: Harry, you've got five minutes. Get the baby.
KIM 2: But Captain.
JANEWAY 2: Move it, Ensign! That's an order! Computer, initiate the self-destruct sequence. Authorisation Janeway pi one one zero. Set at five minutes and mute voice warnings. Enable.
COMPUTER: Warning. Self-destruct sequence has been initiated. Warp core overload in four minutes, fifty five seconds. There will be no further audio warnings.

[Voyager 2 - Sickbay]
VIDIIAN: Ocampa. Female. The organs are healthy. She has an extremely high rate of tissue regeneration.
SURGEON: Extract her pelvic ridge. We'll analyze the bone marrow for Phage resistance.
VIDIIAN: The others are human. My scans indicate their pancreatic tissues are well suited for transplant.
SURGEON: Begin the extraction procedure.
VIDIIAN: This one. A female human. She's recently given birth.
SURGEON: Are you certain?
VIDIIAN: Yes. Her haemo-uterine levels are far above normal.
SURGEON: Where's the infant? Set your bio-probe to maximum. Find it.
KIM 2: No!
EMH 2: Ensign Kim, is that you?
KIM 2: Doc, am I glad to see you.
EMH 2: Have we retaken the ship?
KIM 2: No. Actually, the Captain's put the ship on self-destruct. She ordered me to take the baby and go to the other Voyager.
EMH 2: Well, I, I guess you'd better hurry then.
KIM 2: Goodbye, Doc.
EMH 2: Ensign. Tell my counterpart that I've corrected all signs of hemocythemia. He'll know what that means.
KIM 2: Will do.

[Voyager 2 - Bridge]
JANEWAY 2: Hello. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway. Welcome to the Bridge.
VIDIIAN: Commander!

[Corridor]
TORRES: Ah, it's about time.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Janeway. Ensign Kim has made it through the rift, with the infant.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Acknowledged.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, the Vidiian ship has been destroyed. So has the other Voyager. Captain's log, stardate 49548.7. There are no signs of any pursuing Vidiian vessels, and we have resumed a course toward home.

[Sickbay]
TUVOK: Repair efforts are underway. Lieutenant Torres estimates we'll be able to return to the Bridge within three days.
JANEWAY: Good. I'm not sure how much longer B'Elanna can tolerate my standing over her shoulder in Engineering. Tuvok, is there something on your mind?
TUVOK: I am curious, Captain. Before the Vidiians attacked, when you were in disagreement with the other Captain about
JANEWAY: Would I have given the order to self-destruct our ship? I've gone over that moment a thousand times in my mind. The truth is, yes, I would have given the order. But I will admit, there was a part of me that could see her point of view.
TUVOK: One could say that you were both the doubter and the doubted. I do not envy the paradox of logic you were faced with in that situation.
JANEWAY: Neither did I. And neither did she.
WILDMAN: Thank you. Thank you so much.
KIM: You're welcome. But you should also thank the Doctor. It was his counterpart who saved her from the Vidiians.
EMH: I'm not surprised. I am programmed to be heroic when the need arises. By the way, Ensign, this other Doctor, did he have a name?
KIM: I really didn't have time to ask.
JANEWAY: Am I allowed to go back to my temporary Bridge now, Doctor?
EMH: By all means.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: It's good to have you back, Ensign.
KIM: Thank you, I think.
JANEWAY: Something wrong?
KIM: I'm not sure. I mean, this isn't really my ship, and you're not really my captain, and yet you are, and there's no difference. But I know there's a difference. Or is there? It's all a little weird.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, we're Starfleet officers. Weird is part of the job.

[Drayan moon]
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager. Voyager, do you read? You must lie still.
BENNET: I can't, I can't feel my legs.
TUVOK: Several of your vertebrae have been fractured.
BENNET: Isn't there anything you can do?
TUVOK: I'm afraid the shuttle's medical supplies are inadequate. We must wait for Voyager to find us.
BENNET: It's getting worse. My whole body feels numb.
TUVOK: I want you to slow your breathing, and relax your muscles. Try not to move.
BENNET: All this time I thought I was so lucky. No family back home. Nobody to miss. Now it seems kind of sad not to leave anybody behind.
TUVOK: I believe Ensign Macormak would miss you a great deal.
BENNET: You think so? I was never really sure how she
TUVOK: It's all right, don't be frightened. I won't hurt you.
TRESSA: Let me go!
TUVOK: Will you run if I do?
TRESSA: No.
TUVOK: My name is Tuvok. Who are you?
TRESSA: Tressa. You don't look like us.
TUVOK: I am not a member of your race. I am Vulcan. I thought this moon was uninhabited. Do you live here?
TRESSA: We came here on a ship, but it crashed like yours.
TUVOK: Where are your parents?
TRESSA: Dead. Is he dead too?
TUVOK: Yes.
TRESSA: What were you doing to him?
TUVOK: I put a stasis field around his body to protect it until I can take it back to my ship.
TRESSA: Why?
TUVOK: Some cultures, like Mister Bennet's, consider an appropriate burial to be a sign of respect. Tressa, is there anyone else here with you?
TRESSA: It's all right.
TUVOK: There is no one looking after you?
TRESSA: Everyone else died in the crash. We're alone.
TUVOK: There is no reason to be afraid. I will take care of you now and see that you get home safely.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. I've sent out scouting parties to analyze the mineral deposits in the moons around Drayan Two. Meanwhile, I've arranged to meet with the planet's leader.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: According to Neelix, nobody's had direct contact with the Drayans for decades. All he's heard are rumors.
JANEWAY: Do any of those rumors describe them as hostile?
CHAKOTAY: No, just very private.

[Turbolift]
JANEWAY: That's something. Deck four. My diplomacy professor used to say the opening twenty minutes of a first contact situation are the most crucial.
CHAKOTAY: I'd feel better about this particular twenty minutes if we had some idea what to expect.
JANEWAY: Sometimes you have to go in blind. That's the exciting part. When I was a science officer I always envied the Captain's privilege of making first contact with new races.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: I envied it so much I almost got myself shipped back to the academy for remedial training. On my first assignment we were sent to make contact with the Tarkannans. I studied all the information we had about them and pestered the Captain into letting me be part of the diplomatic team. When we came face to face with the Tarkannan delegation I very proudly made the traditional gesture for hello, not realizing that males and females of their race use different styles of movement, and I was actually propositioning the Ambassador.

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: Energize.
JANEWAY: I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway. I'd like to welcome you aboard the Federation Starship Voyager.
ALCIA: First Prelate Alcia. May this day find you at peace and leave you with hope. That's a traditional blessing from our ancient scrolls.
CHAKOTAY: Om-nah-hoo-pez-nyeetz. That's from the spirits of my people. It means, peace in your heart, fortune in your steps.
JANEWAY: It's very gracious of you to agree to meet with us.
ALCIA: We don't often engage in dialogue with alien races, but your story of crossing the galaxy intrigued me.
JANEWAY: I'd be glad to tell you all about our journey and my crew. Perhaps you'd like to see more of our ship as well.
ALCIA: Thank you.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Our warp core is designed to operate for up to three years before refueling.
CHAKOTAY: The reaction chamber is equipped with a compositor which allows us to re-crystallize the dilithium. In our situation we can never be sure when we'll be able to find a new supply.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry my Chief Engineer isn't here to meet you. She's leading one of the away teams surveying the moons around Drayan.
ALCIA: I find it interesting that you chose this to show me first. Do your people consider advanced technology to be their highest achievement?
JANEWAY: Not as an end in itself. The purpose of all this is to help up gain knowledge about the universe and the people in it.
ALCIA: Our ancestors were brilliant scientists and engineers. They were continually developing better, smarter, more efficient machines, until the technology became more important than the people. I believe our society would have self-destructed if it weren't for the reformation. My great-grandfather helped to return us to ourselves, and since that time we've remained isolated to avoid the influence of those who might lead us back down the wrong path.
CHAKOTAY: Some human cultures have done the same.

[Drayan moon]
TRESSA: Will your friend be all right in there?
TUVOK: Yes. I have secured his body within a stasis field. You were all very fortunate to have escaped the crash with only a few bruises.
TRESSA: The attendants protected us.
TUVOK: Attendants?
TRESSA: The people on our ship. They got us to the escape pod before they crashed.
CORIN: Can we go now? I want to go.
ELANI: Are we going to fly in your ship?
CORIN: He said it was a shuttle, not a ship.
TUVOK: We cannot leave yet. My shuttle is in need of repairs.
TRESSA: Can't you fix it?
TUVOK: I believe so. However, I am more concerned with getting through the electrodynamic turbulence in the ionosphere.
CORIN: What's electro-turbulence?
TUVOK: A thermal inversion gradient is causing unusually strong and unpredictable currents in the upper levels of the atmosphere. Those currents caused my shuttle to crash, and I assume yours as well. I must find a way to safely navigate through the turbulence before we can attempt to leave.
TRESSA: Will that take a long time?
TUVOK: It may. You must be patient.
ELANI: I don't want to stay here any more. I don't like it here.
TUVOK: Your displeasure doesn't change our situation. Nor does it bring us any closer to a solution
TRESSA: You don't have to be so mean about it.
TUVOK: It isn't my intention to be mean. I only wish to provide you with a realistic assessment. Vulcan parents never shield their children from the truth. Doing so would only hinder their ability to cope with inevitable difficulties.
CORIN: I'm hungry.
TUVOK: There is a supply of Starfleet rations in the shuttle.
CORIN: What's rations?
TUVOK: Concentrated vitamin enriched nutritional supplements.
CORIN: I want takka berries.
ELANI: With cherel sauce.
TUVOK: We have only rations. Now, I must begin working on my shuttle. By my estimate we have fewer than four hours of daylight remaining.
ELANI: We can't be here when it's night.
CORIN: That's when the Morrok comes.
TUVOK: Is that some species of animal?
TRESSA: The Morrok is what takes you when you die.
CORIN: It lives here in the cave.
TUVOK: I'm not detecting any life forms other than ourselves.
TRESSA: It's here. It'll come.
TUVOK: Have any of you ever seen this creature?
ELANI: You can only see it when it comes for you. Then it's too late.
TUVOK: I believe your anxiety about our situation is causing you to imagine the presence
CORIN: It took the others. Jarren and Fayla, the other children on the ship!
TRESSA: The Morrok took them while we were sleeping, and tonight it will take us.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: The Federation consists of over one hundred and fifty different worlds who have agreed to share their knowledge and resources in peaceful cooperation.
EMH: Ah, visitors! Welcome to sickbay. I'm the Chief Medical Officer.
JANEWAY: This is First Prelate Alcia of Drayan Two.
EMH: It's an honor to meet you. We don't often receive such distinguished guests here, unless there's been some sort of accident. I'm sure nothing unfortunate will happen to you on your visit here, but if it did you can rest assured you will find yourself in very capable hands. We are fully equipped to provide a wide variety of treatments here from removing a splinter to re-sequencing the base pairs in a strand of DNA, and our research facilities are the most advanced in Starfleet.
ALCIA: Very impressive.
JANEWAY: You may be even more interested to learn that this man isn't really a biological lifeform. He's a computer generated holographic projection.
ALCIA: My people believe that physical matter is only an illusion. The body is not the true self, only a representation.
JANEWAY: One of our greatest philosophers, Plato, wrote that what we see around us are only poor shadows of ideal objects which exist on a higher plane.
ALCIA: That is similar to our teachings. Our connection to what you call a higher plane is more important than our attachment to this brief existence, however real it may seem.
KIM (voiceover): Bridge to Captain. There's an incoming message for the First Prelate.
EMH: Perhaps you'd like to use my office?
ALCIA: Yes, thank you, Doctor?
EMH: I'm afraid it's just Doctor.
JANEWAY: Patch it through on a secure channel to the Doctor's office, Mister Kim.
KIM (voiceover): Acknowledged.
KES: You did very well. I think she was impressed.
EMH: Kes has been coaching me on my diplomatic skills.
CHAKOTAY: It shows.
JANEWAY: Our next step will be to open negotiations. Find out what they might be interested in getting from us in exchange for the polyferranide.
ALCIA: I've been called away on an emergency.
JANEWAY: Is there anything we can do to help?
ALCIA: No, thank you. It would be better if you and your crew continued on your journey. It's been an interesting visit.
JANEWAY: We'd been hoping to learn more about you.
ALCIA: It's been our custom for generations to avoid close contact with outsiders. I choose to honor that tradition. Goodbye, Captain. I hope you find your way home.
EMH: Was it something I said?
CHAKOTAY: We could assure her we have no intention of interfering with their culture or traditions.
JANEWAY: No. She made her wishes clear. If we're not welcome, we'll go. Recall the scouting parties. We'll have to find our polyferranide somewhere else.

[Drayan moon]
TUVOK: Where did you last see the missing children?
CORIN: By the big tree, when we went to sleep last night.
TUVOK: Were either of them injured?
CORIN: Jarrin hurt his hand.
TUVOK: But both were able to walk.
CORIN: Uh huh.
TUVOK: Did any of you hear them get up during the night?
TRESSA: You think they wandered off and got lost, but they didn't. The Morrok took them. They're gone.
TUVOK: The other children aren't within scanning range of this tricorder. That is the only thing we know for certain at this time.
TRESSA: You don't understand. We have to get away from here.
CORIN: Please can we go?
ELANI: We're scared.
TRESSA: Please, Tuvok?
TUVOK: Children, you are allowing your fears to guide you. You must learn to exercise control over your own imagination.
CORIN: But the Morrok!
TUVOK: Yes, the existence of such a creature is one possibility. However, your emotional reactions are preventing you from accurately judging how unlikely that is to be true.
CORIN: I can't help it. I'm scared.
TUVOK: I believe you can help it. Vulcan children learn to detach themselves from their emotions at an early age.
ELANI: How?
TUVOK: First, you must focus on the object of your fear. Picture the Morrok clearly in your minds. That image is accompanied by an emotional response. Describe for me what that feeling is like.
TRESSA: It makes my stomach all tight.
ELANI: I feel like I want to run, but my legs won't work.
TUVOK: Now, if you could see this emotion in physical form, what would it look like?
CORIN: It's like this big, black cloud with lots of thunder and lightning all around us.
TUVOK: Then imagine a strong wind is pushing that cloud away. Watch as your fear grows more distant. It is no longer a part of you. Once you begin to detach yourselves from your emotional responses, you come closer to controlling them. Eventually, they will be eliminated altogether.
ELANI: Do you live your whole life without feeling anything?
TUVOK: More accurately, we strive to control our feelings.
TRESSA: You don't get scared, ever?
TUVOK: No.
CORIN: Even when your shuttle crashed?
TUVOK: That is correct.
CORIN: But what if there was this big hairy tardeth coming after you?
TUVOK: The circumstances are irrelevant. A Vulcan approaches every situation logically. Now I must begin work on my shuttle. We will resume the search for the other children once the sensors are operational. I expect each of you to sit quietly and not touch any of the equipment.
TRESSA: We promise.
TUVOK: Elani, please put that down.
CORIN: Let me have it!
TRESSA: No, I found it!
TUVOK: Be careful with that! You will stay here and you will stay here.
ELANI: Where do I get to sit?
CORIN: But I want to sit next to you.
CORIN: Tuvok?
TUVOK: Yes.
CORIN: Why do your ears look like that?
TUVOK: All Vulcans have similarly shaped ears.
CORIN: Why?
TUVOK: It is the result of many millennia of evolution.
ELANI: Do they make you hear better?
TUVOK: No.
TRESSA: Where do Vulcans live? Is it far away?
TUVOK: My homeworld is on the other side of the galaxy. Elani. Elani! I asked you not to play with that.
ELANI: Sorry.
CORIN: What are you doing?
TUVOK: It helps prepare you to attain a meditative state. Now, close your eyes and imagine all the energy in your body is flowing to the point where your fingertips meet. Nothing else you hear or feel is important. Let the outside world fade away. You exist only inside your mind.
CORIN: Tuvok?
TUVOK: Yes.
CORIN: Do you have any children?
TRESSA: Be quiet. We're trying to attain a meditative state.
CORIN: But I want to know!
TUVOK: I have four children. Now you must concentrate.
CORIN: What are they like?
TUVOK: Well behaved. They had already mastered several states of heightened awareness by the time they were your age.
ELANI: If Vulcans don't feel anything, does that mean you don't love them?
TUVOK: My attachment to my children cannot be described as an emotion. They are part of my identity, and I am incomplete without them.
ELANI: I bet they miss you too.
CORIN: Tuvok?
TUVOK: Yes.
CORIN: I have to scratch my nose.
TUVOK: You may.
TRESSA: Tuvok!
TUVOK: Yes.
TRESSA: I hear something.
CORIN: Is it a ship?
TUVOK: I believe so.

[Shuttle]
TRESSA: Can you see who it is?
TUVOK: The sensors are only partially functional. I'm attempting to identify the ship by its shield harmonics.
ELANI: Is somebody coming to save us?
TUVOK: It is not a shuttle from Voyager. The pattern of the harmonics matches that of the ships we scanned in orbit around Drayan. It seems your people have come looking for you.
TRESSA: We have to hide, Tuvok. You can't let them find us here.
TUVOK: I don't understand. I thought you wanted to go home.
TRESSA: They won't take us home. They're the ones who made us come here.
TUVOK: For what purpose?
TRESSA: They sent us here to die.
CORIN: We have to go!
TRESSA: If they find us, we'll all die.
ELANI: Please, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Why would your own people want to harm you?
TRESSA: Please, they're coming.
ELANI: Help us!

[Drayan moon]
DRAYAN: There's no one inside. Spread out and scan the area.
TUVOK: Two of them are coming this way.
CORIN: What are you doing?
TUVOK: This will hide us from their scanners.
TUVOK: Why do you believe they've come to kill you?
TRESSA: We're supposed to die here. That's what this place is for.
CORIN: They bring children here for the final ritual. Then the Morrok takes them away.
ELANI: No one ever comes back.
TUVOK: It is illogical for a society to kill its own children.
TRESSA: The scrolls say we should be happy. That when we die the energy inside us is set free.
CORIN: Is it true? Is that what really happens?
TUVOK: Vulcans believe that a person's katra, what some might call a soul, continues to exist after the body dies.
ELANI: Do you believe that?
TUVOK: When I was younger, I accepted it without question. In recent years I have experienced doubts. I do believe there is more in each of us than science has yet explained.
TRESSA: I know we should have more faith. It's wrong to be afraid of death.
TUVOK: There is nothing wrong in choosing to live.
ELANI: Will you help us?
TUVOK: Until I can gain a better understanding of your situation, I believe it would be best to get you safely back to Voyager.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Torres and Neelix just got back, but there's still no word from Tuvok and Bennet.
PARIS: I'm not picking up their shuttle on sensors.
KIM: There's heavy solar flare activity. It's causing electrodynamic disturbance throughout the system.
TORRES: We found a vein of pure polyferranide, three kilometers long. It's a real shame we're leaving.
JANEWAY: When was your last contact with the other team?
NEELIX: Several hours ago. Is there a problem?
JANEWAY: We can't reach them.
TORRES: When we spoke to them, they were going to check out the outermost moons.
JANEWAY: Can you find the shuttle's ion signature?
PARIS: I'm reading one on heading one five one mark eight.
TORRES: That's where Neelix and I went.
PARIS: And another one on a divergent course twenty degrees to starboard.
JANEWAY: Set a course, Mister Paris.
TORRES: Our scans of the moon are inconclusive. We can't see anything through the turbulence in the atmosphere.
KIM: The Drayan ship still hasn't responded to our hails.
JANEWAY: Are you sure our signal's getting through.
KIM: They're receiving it, they're just not answering.
JANEWAY: Continue hails.
ALCIA (screen): This desecration dishonors us both, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, I don't understand.
ALCIA (screen): This moon is our crysata. Sacred ground. Your presence is forbidden here.
JANEWAY: We've only come here to look for one of our shuttles. It's missing.
ALCIA (screen): We found your shuttle on the surface. The pilot is dead.
JANEWAY: There were two men on board. Did you find both of them?
ALCIA (screen): No, only one. If there's someone else on this moon you must transport him back to your ship immediately.
JANEWAY: That's what we intend to do.
ALCIA (screen): This type of disturbance is exactly why we avoid contact with outsiders. I was wrong to respond to your communication. I should have known better than to indulge my curiosity.
JANEWAY: There's no one at fault here. The shuttle crash was an accident.
ALCIA (screen): One which I expect you to correct as soon as possible.
JANEWAY: What's the status of the transporters?
TORRES: The targeting scanners still can't lock onto anything on the surface. It would be easier if we sent down another shuttle.
JANEWAY: No, that would only make things worse.
TORRES: I'll keep working on it.

[Drayan moon]
TUVOK: I don't see how you can be thirsty again after four drinks of water.
CORIN: Aren't you going to sleep?
TUVOK: I can go several days without rest if necessary. You cannot. It's warmer by the fire. Go back and try to sleep. Do not worry. I have run several thorough scans of the area. There are no other life forms present, inside the cave or anywhere within five kilometers.
CORIN: Maybe the Morrok doesn't show up on the scanners.
TUVOK: I am also keeping watch on all of you from here. If there is any indication of trouble I will come immediately.
CORIN: Okay.
TRESSA: We can't sleep.
TUVOK: Apparently not.
ELANI: It's so dark.
TRESSA: I think the fire's going out. Maybe you should look.
TUVOK: I added more wood less than a half an hour ago. However, it might be wise to check it again.
ELANI: I always have my hair brushed before I go to sleep.
CORIN: I'd like to hear a story. Tell us one about the fire beast of Sullus.
TUVOK: I never understood the practice in some cultures of describing ferocious creatures in an attempt to lull children to sleep.
CORIN: Don't Vulcan's tell bedtime stories?
TUVOK: If my children had difficulty sleeping, I would play music for them.
ELANI: I want music.
TUVOK: Unfortunately I don't have my lute.
CORIN: What's that?
TUVOK: It is a five-stringed instrument tuned on a diatonic scale. It can be very soothing. My youngest son was particularly fond of it. He always used to ask me to play Falor's Journey. It is a tale of enlightenment consisting of three hundred forty eight verses. It may not be necessary to include the complete narrative. Falor was a prosperous merchant who went on a journey to gain greater awareness. 'Through storms he crossed the Voroth Sea To reach the clouded shores of Raal Where old T'Para offered truth. He traveled through the windswept hills And crossed the barren Fire Plains To find the silent monks of Kir. Still unfulfilled, he journeyed home Told stories of the lessons learned And gained true wisdom by the giving. (The children fall asleep. Next morning, Tuvok is working inside the shuttle when -)
TRESSA: Tuvok! Tuvok! They're gone.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Captain, you might want to see this.
JANEWAY: Have you found the shuttle?
TORRES: Actually we've found two, both crashed on the surface. The sensor resolution is still quite low. This looks like our shuttle. I'd guess the other one is Drayan.
KIM: We've also had some indications of life signs on the surface. A while ago there seemed to be four of them. Now we can only distinguish two.
TORRES: I've been working on the transporters. It just isn't possible to get a pattern lock through all the turbulence.
JANEWAY: Then we've got to start considering other options. I want a full analysis of the atmospheric conditions, and your best suggestion of how to get a shuttle to the surface. Then let's hope we don't need to try it.

[Shuttle]
TUVOK: There were no other lifeforms and no unusual energy readings within sensor range all night.
TRESSA: It was the Morrok. Why don't you believe me?
TUVOK: Very well, I'll investigate. I'd like you to wait here while I look inside the cave.
TRESSA: But if you go in there, you won't come out.
TUVOK: I will take every possible precaution. I believe you can be responsible with this. Aim like this and press here to fire. I'll seal the shuttle's door while I am gone.
TRESSA: No, Tuvok, don't leave me all by myself, please.
TUVOK: If there is anything in the cave, it may help us determine what has been happening here. It is very important to gather as much as information as possible.
TRESSA: I'm scared.
TUVOK: We often fear what we do not understand. Our best defense is knowledge. You must trust me, Tressa. I will return shortly.
TRESSA: Promise?
TUVOK: I will not abandon you.
TRESSA: What did you see in there?
TUVOK: I realize it may frighten you, but you must hear the truth. Suffice it to say, I did not find the other children, nor do I have any explanation of what happened to them.
TRESSA: I'm going to be next, aren't I? There's nothing we can do about it.
TUVOK: The disappearances have occurred only at night. We will attempt to leave here before the sun sets.
TRESSA: I'll really be quiet this time. I won't touch anything.
TUVOK: That would make it difficult for you to assist me with repairs.

[Bridge]
PARIS: The Drayans have just sent another shuttle down to the moon, Captain.
KIM: There must be at least twenty people on the surface. I can't tell if the two life forms we detected before are still there.
CHAKOTAY: How many search parties could it take to find two crash victims?
KIM: Captain, there's a break in the turbulence. I'm picking up a comm. signal.
TUVOK (screen): Tuvok to Voyager. Voyager, do you read?
JANEWAY: We read you, Tuvok. Are you all right?
TUVOK (screen): Yes, Captain, but Ensign Bennet is dead.
JANEWAY: We know. we've been trying to get you off the surface but we're having some trouble with the Drayans. They insist on sending their own search parties.
TUVOK (screen): Yes. I have been avoiding them.
JANEWAY: Why?
TUVOK (screen): I have a young girl with me who claims they have come to kill her. I was reluctant to believe it at first, but several other children have disappeared.
KIM: There's nothing I can do, Captain. The signal's breaking up.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, what happened to the other children?
TUVOK (screen): They have disappeared. Something on this moon is responsible. We must leave here. I'm attempting to repair
JANEWAY: Scan Tuvok's shuttle for damage. Will he be able to get himself out of there?
KIM: There's no structural damage, some power fluctuations. He should be able to take off.
CHAKOTAY: What if they can't?
JANEWAY: Hail the Drayan ship.
ALCIA (screen): Captain.
JANEWAY: First Prelate. It's come to my attention that you have a damaged ship on the surface as well, and there may be survivors. I'd like to offer our help in finding them. Perhaps a joint rescue operation?
ALCIA (screen): That won't be necessary, Captain. You've been intrusive enough.
JANEWAY: Our sensor readings indicate the people on the surface may be in trouble. I'm sure you must be as concerned for their safety as we are.
ALCIA (screen): There's no reason to fear for anyone's safety on the crysata. It's a blessed haven, sheltered and unspoiled, which is the very reason why I can't allow you to go there under any circumstances.
JANEWAY: Then I regret to inform you I'll be taking a shuttle to the surface without your permission.
ALCIA (screen): That's completely unacceptable!
JANEWAY: I believe it's necessary.
ALCIA (screen): If you launch one of your shuttles, I will be forced to send one of ours after you.
JANEWAY: First Prelate, it's not my intention to provoke a conflict.
ALCIA (screen): Well then, leave at once.!
JANEWAY: I'll be glad to, as soon as every member of my crew is safely back on board this ship. Janeway out. Lieutenant, you're with me. Mister Kim, I need your report.
KIM: I've been studying the energy signature of the Drayan shuttles. They're using some kind of dielectric field to protect them from the turbulence.
PARIS: We could generate the same kind of field with a shuttle's warp coils.
KIM: It won't be very stable.
PARIS: It might be a rough ride, but we can make it.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, maybe you shouldn't
JANEWAY: I know the risks, Commander, but if there's any hope left for a diplomatic solution, I've got to be down there to see it through.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: Let's get through the pre-flight quickly. Thrusters, impulse engines, warp drive.
JANEWAY: All propulsion systems are nominal.
PARIS: Shields, phasers, inertial dampers, comm. system.
JANEWAY: I think we've got all the basics. Computer, initial cold launch sequence.
PARIS: Or we could just skip pre-flight altogether.
JANEWAY: Definitely not recommended, but sometimes necessary.
PARIS: I'll remember that. I've taken the warp drive offline. Setting up the dielectric field. It's holding, but we'll have to keep an eye on the stabilizer integrity.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Bridge. Depressurize the shuttle bay and open the space doors.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Aye Captain.
PARIS: Captain, I'm picking up a Drayan shuttle. They're on an intercept course.
JANEWAY: Can we out run them?
PARIS: The dielectric field is weakening our structural integrity. If we go much faster I'm afraid we'll break up. We're improvising here, the Drayans aren't.
JANEWAY: We're on their home turf. They have every advantage. That may be reason enough for them not to fire on us.
PARIS: We'll be testing that theory in a few seconds. They're about to enter weapons range, Captain.
JANEWAY: Raise shields to maximum and stand ready to power the weapons.

[Shuttle]
TUVOK: Maneuvering thrusters and impulse engines are functional. We're ready to lift off.
TRESSA: What about the electro. The currents that made the ships crash.
TUVOK: I have determined that a dielectric field should allow us to pass through them. However, you should still be prepared for some turbulence. Initiating pre-launch sequence. Number three thruster is failing, attempting to stabilize.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: The Drayan shuttle is closing fast, Captain. They'll overtake us before we can land.
JANEWAY: They haven't powered their weapons systems. Maybe they're still willing to talk.
PARIS: Let's hope the ones on the surface feel the same way. We'll be through this ionosphere in a few more minutes.
JANEWAY: Sensors are clearing up. I'm reading Tuvok's shuttle. He's trying to lift off but it looks like there's some trouble with the thrusters, and there's a large Drayan search party approaching his location.

[Shuttle]
TRESSA: I see them. They're coming all around us. We've got to go, now!
TUVOK: I'm attempting an emergency procedure. Please move away from the console.
TRESSA: You did it! You saved me!
TUVOK: I regret that may be a premature conclusion. The process of powering the thrusters has left us with minimal shields and no functional weapons. Voyager will be watching for us. When we clear the atmosphere, we can be transported aboard the ship.
TRESSA: Then what are we going to do?
TUVOK: You may request asylum with the Federation if you wish. Then we'll be able to protect you.
TRESSA: I want to stay with you.
TUVOK: The Drayan shuttle is hailing us.
ALCIA (screen): You're holding one of our children. I want to speak to her.
TUVOK: She believes you intend to kill her. Is that true?
ALCIA (screen): The child is confused. I only want to help her.
TRESSA: You want me to die.
ALCIA (screen): Tressa, I understand how confusing this must be for you. If you return to the surface I will answer all of your questions.
TRESSA: No. I'm not going back there. I'm staying with Tuvok.
TUVOK: We can resolve this matter aboard Voyager.
ALCIA (screen): Unacceptable. If you or any of your people attempt to take Tressa back to your ship, I will use any means necessary to stop you.
TUVOK: Do what you will.
ALCIA (screen): Very well. Fire!
TUVOK: We weren't hit. I believe that was a warning.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: I've got phasers locked on the Drayan shuttle, Captain.
JANEWAY: Don't fire. We might be able to transport Tuvok from here. There's still too much interference.
PARIS: We should be close enough to get a comm. signal through.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, we're on our way to the surface. We'll intercept you in a few moments.
TUVOK (screen): That may be too late, Captain. I'm losing power rapidly. I believe another hit will force me to land.
JANEWAY: Go back down to the surface. We'll follow you.

[Drayan moon]
TRESSA: It's getting dark. What's going to happen to me?
TUVOK: All I can tell you is, I will be here with you.
ALCIA: Mister Tuvok, don't make this difficult. She's been frightened enough.
TUVOK: What she fears most is being kept here against her wishes.
ALCIA: This is a critical time. I can't allow you to interfere.
JANEWAY: I regret it's come to this.
ALCIA: You have found your crew member. Now go.
TUVOK: I will not leave without Tressa. She has asked for my protection and I intend to provide it.
ALCIA: You simply don't understand the harm you're doing.
JANEWAY: This child wants to live. We're going to do whatever we can to help her.
ALCIA: It is not a choice, this is her time. Tressa has reached the end of her life.
TUVOK: She has barely begun it.
ALCIA: She is ninety six years old. Tressa, these people are outsiders. They don't understand how we live. They see us as strange because their aging process is reversed. Please, you don't belong with them. I'm here to help you now.
TRESSA: No, leave me alone.
ALCIA: It's perfectly natural to be frightened. You're taking a step into the unknown. The attendants would have helped you prepare yourself. You were never meant to face this time alone.
TRESSA: We weren't alone. Tuvok was here. He stayed with us and made us feel safe. He told us there was no Morrok and that we shouldn't be afraid. He took care of us, even when we didn't behave as well as Vulcan children.
ALCIA: He was right about the Morrok. It only exists in stories. At this age they become easily confused. Their memories are clouded. Near the end of life we reach a state of complete innocence. We free ourselves from all responsibilities to this life and we leave it peacefully.
TUVOK: Tressa doesn't seem to be ready. Perhaps she needs more time.
ALCIA: That's not for you or me to decide. This is a normal biological process which begins the day we are created. The energy contained within our bodies remains cohesive for a limited number of years and then it is released. Nothing can change that.
TRESSA: Nothing?
ALCIA: No. It's the natural course of life.
JANEWAY: Why was it so important that Tressa stay here?
ALCIA: We believe this is where the very first spark of life was created. We are all compelled by a powerful instinct to return here at the end to complete the cycle and rejoin the infinite energy. Tressa, do you feel it calling to you?
TRESSA: Tuvok?
TUVOK: She can offer you better guidance than I.
TRESSA: You said you would protect me.
TUVOK: I cannot protect you from the natural conclusion of life, nor would I try. Vulcans consider death to be the completion of a journey. There is nothing to fear.
TRESSA: I won't be afraid, not if you're with me.
ALCIA: Tressa, may this night see you safely home. Attending a child on the crysata is an honorable role. You have fulfilled it well. The final moment of life is the most sacred, most private time.
JANEWAY: I hope you can accept my sincere apologies for disturbing your traditions.
ALCIA: Perhaps we have each misjudged the other, Captain.
JANEWAY: I would hate to let that ruin any possibility of friendship between our people.
ALCIA: We must leave them.
PARIS: Tuvok, can your shuttle make it back to Voyager? Maybe we should wait for you.
TUVOK: No, I'll be fine.
TUVOK: We'll wait here as long as you like.
TRESSA: I know it's time. My only regret is leaving my family. My grandson. You remind me of him.
TUVOK: You will still be with them, in their thoughts. As you will be in mine.

[Kim's Quarters]
KIM: Sorry!
PARIS: Obviously, Ensign Baytart doesn't appreciate music.
KIM: It's the darn fluid conduits running through the walls. They conduct sound. You'd think when they designed this thing, they would have
PARIS: This ship was built for combat performance, Harry, not musical performance. Nobody figured we'd be taking any long trips.
KIM: Where am I supposed to practice?
PARIS: How about the cargo bay?
KIM: Bad acoustics.
PARIS: We could get Baytart transferred to the night shift.
KIM: We couldn't do that. Could we?
PARIS: So now you have an excuse to give your mother why you didn't practice while you were gone.
KIM: Look, I'm trying to prepare for an important performance.
PARIS: Oh, really? Are we scheduled to rendezvous with the Delta Quadrant Symphony Orchestra?
KIM: No, Susan Nicoletti and I have been working on a new orchestral program for the holodeck.
PARIS: Lieutenant Nicoletti? The one I've been chasing for six months? Cold hands, cold heart?
KIM: Not when she plays the oboe.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to all senior officers. Please report to the Bridge.
PARIS: You know, Harry, I've always wanted to learn how to play the drums.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I am picking up communication satellites in orbit. They're nonfunctional.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, take us in a little closer. Mister Kim, scan the surface.
NEELIX: Captain, this used to be a major trading spot.
JANEWAY: How long ago?
NEELIX: I'm not sure exactly. If I had to guess
KIM: EM signature indicates that a major solar flare occurred here nineteen years ago.
NEELIX: I'd say about nineteen years, more or less.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like a glacial freeze.
JANEWAY: Caused by a solar flare that radically changed the weather patterns.
KIM: It did a lot more than that. They were hit by magnetic storms and extreme levels of radiation.
CHAKOTAY: Those glaciers are receding.
KIM: The biosphere seems to be recovering.
PARIS: Did anyone survive?
KIM: Scanning the settlement. There's evidence of advanced technology, warp reactors, subspace transmitters, but no lifesigns.
PARIS: Maybe they saw it coming and evacuated the planet.
TUVOK: Indications are that any attempt at an evacuation would have been prevented by the atmospheric disturbances.
JANEWAY: What was the estimated population?
TUVOK: Approximately four hundred thousand.
KIM: Captain, I'm picking up something from the surface. I think we're being hailed.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you said there weren't any lifesigns.
KIM: There aren't. I scanned the entire surface. It must be an automated signal.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
VIORSA (screen): I am Viorsa, planner for the Kohl settlement. Your sensors have activated this message. By now you must be aware of the catastrophic disaster that has destroyed our home. A few of us have managed to survive in a state of artificial hibernation, programmed to end in fifteen years from the date this was recorded. At that time, when the eco-recovery has begun, we will attempt to rebuild our settlement. Please, do nothing to interrupt our timetable.
CHAKOTAY: Their timetable was supposed to end four years ago.
PARIS: Looks like they didn't make it.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, wouldn't your scans have picked up suppressed metabolic activity?
KIM: I would think so, Captain, unless. Checking below the surface. Nothing one kilometer down. Two kilometers. Wait a minute. I think I've got something two point three kilometers down. Extremely faint bio-signatures. Three humanoids.
JANEWAY: Can you detect a malfunction in their systems? Something to explain why they didn't wake up on schedule?
KIM: Not at this distance. But I am picking up two more humanoids at the same location who are dead.
JANEWAY: Are there any automated security systems? We triggered a Do Not Disturb sign. I don't want to set off anything worse.
TUVOK: No weapons of any kind, Captain. It is safe to transport the hibernation pods to Voyager, if that is your intent.
JANEWAY: It is. Prepare to beam them to Cargo Bay one. Mister Kim, you're with me. Janeway to Kes. Report to Cargo Bay one. Bring your medical gear.
KES (voiceover): Aye, Captain.

[Cargo Bay]
KES: Two humanoids dead, three humanoids in deep stasis. Lifesigns apparently stable.
JANEWAY: Our messenger.
JANEWAY: Did the system break down?
KIM: Not that I can see. I'm not reading any pathway failures in the hibernation pods. The circuitry all seems to be functioning. Looks like their brains are interconnected in a complex sensory system controlled by this computer. According to these indicators, Captain, their minds are active.
JANEWAY: Active? What do you mean?
KIM: The encephalographic readings suggest they're dreaming, but there's some kind of interactivity with the computer. It's not just scanning their brain functions, it's sending a data stream back to them as well.
JANEWAY: Could it be generating an artificial environment of some sort?
KES: Artificial environment?
JANEWAY: Years ago, Starfleet used a technology to assist deep space travel that kept the body in stasis, but provided a mental landscape to keep the mind active and alert.
KES: That sounds like a pretty good way to wait out a planetary disaster.
KIM: For the moment, it's as good a theory as any.
JANEWAY: So what went wrong? Why are they still in there?

[Briefing room]
KIM: The system was supposed to bring these people out of hibernation four years ago. However, it wasn't left entirely to the computer. The programrs obviously wanted the people in the system to decide for themselves when it would be safe to come out. This was accomplished by a subroutine that periodically displayed atmospheric conditions to them.
JANEWAY: So they should have known years ago that the biosphere had recovered.
KIM: Exactly. This subroutine has remained available to these people since it was activated four years ago. It's literally an escape hatch.
TUVOK: Perhaps it has malfunctioned.
KIM: No. That's what's so odd about this. As far as I can tell, it's working perfectly.
TORRES: Then why don't they get themselves out?
KIM: I don't know.
PARIS: Maybe they like it in there.
EMH (screen): I don't think so.
JANEWAY: Doctor.
EMH (screen): The two victims died from massive heart failure, and there was evidence of prior neural trauma.
NEELIX: I'm sorry. What does that mean?
EMH (screen): It could be evidence of extreme fear.
NEELIX: Maybe it was caused by the panic that accompanies a heart attack.
KES: The readings suggest an extended period of mental stress.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds like we ought to get them out right away.
EMH (screen): Surely, Commander, you're not suggesting we simply unplug them?
CHAKOTAY: Why not?
EMH (screen): Because you have three brains whose survival has depended upon careful monitoring by a sophisticated computer system for nineteen years.
KIM: The Doc is right. I have no idea how to disconnect them without causing neural damage. I just don't know the system well enough.
TUVOK: They know the system. Why don't we ask them how to proceed?
PARIS: How can we do that? Implant a com-link into their brains?
TUVOK: We already have a means of communication. The two unoccupied pods.
KIM: We could add a backup life support system, using our own computer and medical stasis technology.
CHAKOTAY: If the only way to help those people is to go in and find out from them what's wrong, I don't see any alternative.
JANEWAY: Neither do I.

[Cargo Bay 1]
KES: I'll be monitoring your mental and physical functions. If we detect any unusual activity, you'll be transferred onto our life support system and resuscitated.
JANEWAY: We've tapped into the system's recall subroutine program. I'll give you five minutes to look around, then I'm bringing you back. Consider this a test run.
TORRES: Understood.
KES: Inducing primary stasis. Autonomic nervous system link is secure.
JANEWAY: They're connecting to the system.

[Fantasy land]
TORRES: Looks like we made it.
KIM: How do you feel?
TORRES: Normal.
KIM: These must be characters generated by the computer, but I don't see our people.
TORRES: Neither do I.
KIM: Excuse me. We're trying to find some friends.
CLOWN: Well, that shouldn't be difficult. We're all friends here.
KIM: Oh, I'm sorry.
LITTLE WOMAN: Oh, I'm sorry.
KIM: I didn't mean to bump into you.
LITTLE WOMAN: You're new.
KIM: Yes, we are.
LITTLE WOMAN: Where are you from?
TORRES: Another town.
LITTLE WOMAN: There aren't any other towns.
KIM: We're not getting very far.
SPECTRE: Perhaps I can help you. You are looking for friends?
KIM: That's right. Three of them.
SPECTRE: And when you find these friends?
TORRES: We want to talk to them.
CLOWN: Why talk when we can dance?
TORRES: Let's get out of here.
KIM: You've got it.
SPECTRE: Take him!
TORRES: Harry! Harry!
TORRES: Harry! Harry! Harry! Harry!
ALL: Chop, chop, chop!
VIORSA: Stop! They're aliens, and they won't be alone. Kill them, and their shipmates will shut down the program.
CLOWN: Let him go.
VIORSA: We knew this would happen someday, that a ship would find us. It was only a matter of time.
CLOWN: Only a matter of time, yes.
VIORSA: Who knows what kind of people they are? Who knows what will happen to this world if you hurt them?
CLOWN: I do. I know. Bring them here. Bring them here, bring them here, bring them here. You're like me, a little of this and a little of that.
CLOWN: Oh my, what a temper. That's from your mother's side, isn't it? Yes, you see, I know everything. This is my world, my festival. And you're here without an invitation.
TORRES: What is going on? Who is he?
CLOWN: You will talk to me! I speak for them, and I speak for you now. You don't understand that yet. You don't accept it, but you will.
KIM: Are you a lifeform? Or some kind of computer virus that penetrated this system?
CLOWN: A virus, a virus. He thinks I am a virus. A virus, a virus. Well, perhaps, I'll be a virus today. Oh, this one's got a mind full of technical and operational thoughts and ideas. Harry knows viruses.
VIORSA: Stop this.
CLOWN: I know you came here to get them and take them away. But if you do that, we'll all disappear.
KIM: Disappear. Because you're characters created by this program, and once their minds stop interacting with the system, you won't exist anymore.
CLOWN: Ah. See the technical mind at work. It seeks diagnostics, data analysis. Well, here's some more data for your mind to analyze and diagnose, Harry. Yes, I am merely what has been created and is being created by his brain, his brain, her brain and now yours and yours.
CLOWN: What? What's this doing here now? This is your work!
TORRES: That's our wake-up call. It's been a real pleasure, but we're leaving. Come on.
CLOWN: If you leave, one of them will die. One of them will die. Try it and see. If you leave, he dies.
VIORSA: He can do it. He's already killed two of our colleagues.
TORRES: How is that possible?
CLOWN: I cut off their heads.
TORRES: But none of this is real.
CLOWN: Of course it's real. As real as a nightmare.
KIM: The two we found dead both suffered from massive heart attacks.
CLOWN: Heart attack. Now, what might cause a heart attack? Hmm. Unmanageable stress, perhaps? Unmanageable fear? The fear of losing a head, perhaps?
KIM: You scared them to death.

[Cargo Bay 1]
JANEWAY: What's taking them so long?
KES: Lifesigns are stable. There's no interruption of brain wave activity.
JANEWAY: The recall subroutine is functioning. The window opened for them on schedule.
KES: Captain, the norepinephrine levels are rising. They're well above baseline. Some of that is to be expected, but these levels indicate abnormal stress.
JANEWAY: All right. I'm going to try to bring them out with our backup systems.
KES: Initiating resuscitation. The body temperature is rising.
JANEWAY: What happened?
KES: The bodies are returning to stasis condition, Captain.
TUVOK: Someone is terminating the recall command from inside the system.

[Fantasy land]
CLOWN: Very wise of you, my technically minded fellow. Now, get rid of it completely. It's an intrusion. It's ruining the party.
KIM: That would be a mistake.
CLOWN: No mistake. A mistake if you refuse.
KIM: You'd be missing an opportunity.
CLOWN: Trying to get the better of me? Trying to trick me? I know everything you know, Harry Kim. I know how much you miss Libby. I know how you can never hit that G sharp in the Mozart concerto. Do you think I don't know you're trying to defeat me?
KIM: Fine. So you know. You'll also know that what I'm about to tell you is the truth. You'd be smart to let one of us go.
CLOWN: Would I?
KIM: This is your chance to send the outside world a message. To tell them your demands.
CLOWN: I have only one demand. To exist!
TORRES: Then you'd better let us tell them.
KIM: Otherwise, you run the risk of our people shutting down the whole system. Because I promise you, they won't let us stay in here for long.
KIM: How did this happen?
KOHL WOMAN: The system was designed to be adaptive, to observe and respond to our thoughts, and adjust the environment to our wishes.
TORRES: Who wished him up?
VIORSA: It happened over months without our even realizing it. All of us had fears about survival, recovery. We never anticipated the computer would manifest those fears into him.
KOHL MAN: Our only hope was that someone like you would come along and find us.
KIM: It's almost as though he can read our minds. He seems to know what we're thinking.
KOHL WOMAN: He's generated by the system, and our brains are monitored by the system. So, yes, in a manner of speaking, he can.
VIORSA: But there is a delay before he becomes aware of what we're thinking.
KOHL WOMAN: It takes a few minutes for our brain activity to be processed by the system.
CLOWN: Well, I've come to a decision with the help of my friends. You, leave. You, stay. And tell your beloved Captain Janeway that if we die, they die, including you, dear Harry. You, who becomes my best friend as of today. Because she would never kill you, would she, Harry? No. She's like a dear old mother to you, isn't she? Go!

[Cargo Bay 1]
JANEWAY: Someone's activated the recall subroutine.
KES: Captain, it's Lieutenant Torres. Her body temperature is rising. She should regain consciousness in about twelve minutes.
JANEWAY: At least we'll finally get the answers to a few questions.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Well, let's start with the obvious question. If they're demanding to exist, can we find a way to let them exist in this artificial world of theirs?
TORRES: Not unless you're prepared to leave one person in stasis permanently.
EMH (screen): I concur with Lieutenant Torres. The computer uses bio-neural feedback from the participants' brains to create the environment.
JANEWAY: Doctor, is there a way to speed up resuscitation?
EMH (screen): Only by a few minutes. Anything more, we'd be risking serious brain damage. Ten minutes would be about the best we could do.
PARIS: Ten minutes and all the hostages could be killed.
JANEWAY: Then it seems to me our first order of business should be to reduce the number of hostages. All we have to do now is decide how to negotiate with an emotion. With a manifestation of fear.
TUVOK: Fear is the most primitive, the most primordial of biological responses.
JANEWAY: The ability to recognize danger, to fight it or run away from it, that's what fear gives us. But when fear holds you hostage, how do you make it let go?
NEELIX: Maybe we should try to make him laugh. A good joke just, er, seems to make er, fear dissolve. Well, it does in me, anyway.
JANEWAY: I think something a little more responsive to the Clown's demand. B'Elanna, maybe you can come up with a way to modify the system, so it can run without bio-neural interaction.
CHAKOTAY: How do we negotiate without sending in another hostage?
JANEWAY: Good question. We have to come up with a safer method of communication.

[Fantasy land]
VIORSA: I regret very much what has happened to you. You came to help. You didn't deserve this. I regret so many things.
KIM: Look, we don't have time for regret. My people are working on a way, right now, to get us out of here. And we have to help them if we can.
VIORSA: You'll leave hope behind after a few months of this.
KIM: Why does he do it?
KOHL MAN: We're his canvas, his blocks of marble. With us, he practices his ghastly art.
CLOWN: Thinking about escape, are we, Harry? Naughty, naughty. I don't like those thoughts. We're going to have to do something about them.
KOHL WOMAN: He's new. He can't help thinking about getting out.
CLOWN: He can! You don't think about it anymore. Oh, but he's new, and you're old. New and old. Old and new. Well, then, the answer is to simply make you old, Harry.
CLOWN: Are you afraid of growing old, Harry? Is that what you fear? Being cared for by nurses?
LITTLE WOMAN: Time for your medicine.
CLOWN: You don't like being helpless, do you, Harry? You like to take care of yourself. Yes, I know how you hate to feel like the baby on the crew.
CLOWN: Oh, what's the matter, Harry? Oh, does my costume frighten you, huh? Kootchy-coo. Yeah. Oh, look at little Harry fly. Whoo! Whoo! There he goes. Whoo! Whee! All right, that's enough.
KIM: This is not reality. It's an illusion.
CLOWN: When your only reality is an illusion, then illusion is a reality.
KIM: Like the man said, The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.
CLOWN: Oh, I thought we were going to be friends. Didn't want to do this, Harry. No, I didn't want to bring this up in front of the others, but I know what really scares you. I know when you were nine, your parents took you to that colony, the radiation disaster, humanitarian mission. You visited a hospital. You remember.
KIM: No.
CLOWN: You wandered off by yourself where you weren't supposed to be.
KIM: The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.
CLOWN: You saw people and things you weren't supposed to see. Sick and dying. Keep repeating. The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.
ALL: The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.
CLOWN: And how about There's no place like home. There's no place like home. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha! Try clicking your heels together three times. Oh, but your legs are restrained, aren't they? Just like that little girl you saw on the operating table.
CLOWN: The doctor called for a scalpel. She looked at you, her face filled with fear. Fear. Fear. Fear. Do you remember?
KIM: No!
EMH: Excuse me, you're not holding that properly. Correct positioning of the index finger is necessary for optimal dexterity.
CLOWN: Who are you?
EMH: I'm Captain Janeway's representative. I'm here to negotiate with you. Are you well, Mister Kim?
KIM: Starting to feel better.
CLOWN: You're different. I don't know anything about you. You're not on the system.
EMH: I would be pleased to tell you all about myself at a more appropriate time. For now, suffice it to say that I am here by a miracle of technology. Now, let's get down to the issues, shall we?
CLOWN: How am I supposed to negotiate if I don't know what you're thinking?
EMH: I have a very trustworthy face. My captain is prepared to give you exactly what you asked for, under the condition you release all the hostages.
CLOWN: Release the hostages?
EMH: We would provide continuing input from a simulated brain. A computer model that would generate
CLOWN: Simulated brain? Simulated?
EMH: I, myself, have a comparable
CLOWN: It won't work. It's a lie. Tell him, Harry.
KIM: I don't know that for sure.
CLOWN: Liar! Viorsa, get over here! Tell him.
VIORSA: It might require a recalibration of the optronic pathways.
CLOWN: Liar! After all this time, do you think I can't tell when you lie?
EMH: The simulated brain
CLOWN: Would leave me at your mercy. No! They stay.
EMH: The captain is prepared to risk the lives of the hostages rather than leave them under your control.
CLOWN: Who is she to tell me what I have to do?
EMH: She's the one out there with the off switch in her hand.
CLOWN: She would never kill Harry.
KIM: I'd rather die than spend my life in here with you. She knows that.
CLOWN: I won't let them go.
EMH: A compromise. Let some of them go.
CLOWN: No.
EMH: We've studied your system. You only need one to survive.
CLOWN: And if that one gets sick and dies? No, I need them all. Now go away, and tell your Captain Janeway I'm disappointed. I expected more from her.
EMH: If we could just
CLOWN: Go away.
ALL: Go away.
EMH: I'll be back.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Well, I'm sorry I don't live up to his expectations. What's your opinion of him, Doctor?
EMH: Unstable, unpredictable. Everything you'd expect from fear.
TUVOK: Captain, the longer we allow this to continue, the more likely it is that he will take his frustrations out on the hostages.
JANEWAY: I agree, and I can't allow that to happen. We're going to have to mount some kind of rescue mission.
JANEWAY: Doctor, if we do simply disconnect the hostages
EMH: There would certainly be brain damage.
JANEWAY: How much damage? Could you possibly repair it?
EMH: Possibly, yes. Would Mister Kim still be able to hold his clarinet when I was done? Possibly. The brain is such an interesting organ.
CHAKOTAY: Could we switch over to a simulated brain without the Clown noticing it?
TORRES: Oh, he'd notice. He was very smart to reject the whole notion of a simulated brain. It just wouldn't be the same. There is no way an artificial intelligence can replace actual brain functions.
EMH: I'll choose not to take that personally, Lieutenant. For what it's worth, Mister Viorsa suggested there would be a way to make a simulated brain function in this system. He suggested it would take a recalibration of the optronic pathways.
TORRES: I don't know what he could have been talking about. The optronic pathways have nothing to do with the neural interface. It doesn't make any sense.
TUVOK: Then perhaps he had another reason for saying it.
CHAKOTAY: How do the optronic pathways function in this system, B'Elanna?
TORRES: They, they control the basic elements of the environment, access databanks that were programmed when the system was created. If we interrupt the optronic pathways, we could disassemble that entire world and its characters, piece by piece.
JANEWAY: If we can't remove the hostages from the environment, then we might be able to remove the environment from the hostages.
TORRES: How did Viorsa manage to communicate this without the Clown knowing about it?
EMH: Perhaps it was because the clown's attention was divided at the time.
JANEWAY: And you're going to continue to provide him with distractions, Doctor. B'Elanna, how long will it take to block these pathways?
TORRES: I'm not sure how many there are, Captain. And I'll have to do it manually because we don't know how to deprogram the system.
JANEWAY: You'll only have a few minutes at best. Once Fear knows what we're up to, it will be a race against time to save the lives of those hostages.

[Fantasy land]
SPECTRE: Bravo! Bravo!
CLOWN: Go away. I want to be alone.
SPECTRE: You're ruining the festival.
LITTLE WOMAN: Don't be a poop.
CLOWN: I can't help it. I'm feeling sorry for myself.
LITTLE WOMAN: Well, don't take it out on us.
SPECTRE: Take it out on them.
CLOWN: You people. You wonderful people. My friends. You do know how to make a man feel better, don't you? Okay, then, what shall we play? Ah, the insect game.
SPECTRE: Yes, yes, the insect game.
CLOWN: You again? You're the one who ruined my mood. You and your sweet captain.
EMH: My sweet captain has a new offer to make.
CLOWN: No simulated brains. I want real brains.
EMH: The captain is prepared to give you a cloaking device.
CLOWN: I already have a cloaking device. Thank you anyway.
EMH: I'm talking about a device that would shield you from being detected by any other interstellar visitors.

[Cargo Bay 1]
TORRES: There are almost forty pathways to disable, Captain, but I should be able to get it done in under two minutes.
JANEWAY: Good. Let's get started.

[Fantasy land]
EMH: We will return your entire computer system to the subterranean locale where we found it. With the help of Mister Kim and a team of Starfleet engineers, it will be an easy matter to install the cloaking device, which will insure your safety for the foreseeable future.
CLOWN: Harry, is this possible?
KIM: Yes.
CLOWN: I don't know if I believe you. I don't know yet, but I'll know soon if you're telling the truth. You can't fool me. What does she want in return? And don't say the hostages because I'm not giving them up.
EMH: You have to understand that the captain's primary concern is the safety of the hostages.
CLOWN: She's such a warm and noble person. I'd love her to come to one of my parties someday. What if I promise to take really good care of my guests? We could be more than friends. We could be colleagues. I'm really not such a bad fellow.
SPECTRE: What's happening?
CLOWN: You tricked me! It's an attack! It's an attack! Red alert! Red alert! You! You warned them! You told them how it could be done. Take him!
KOHL WOMAN: No! Please, no!

[Cargo Bay 1]
TORRES: Twenty-two.
JANEWAY: More than halfway there, B'Elanna.
KES: Captain, it's Viorsa. His norepinephrine levels are rising sharply.

[Fantasy land]
VIORSA: No, please! I didn't do anything! I didn't do anything!

[Cargo Bay 1]
JANEWAY: What is it?
TORRES: Some kind of protection device. I'm locked out. I'll have to disable it.

[Fantasy land]
VIORSA: Don't do this! No!

[Cargo Bay 1]
KES: Viorsa's norepinephrine levels are critical.
TORRES: Just ten more pathways.
KES: He's dead. Massive heart failure. Captain, this one's norepinephrine levels are approaching critical.

[Fantasy land]
CLOWN: You're next! You're next!

[Cargo Bay 1]
JANEWAY: Restore the entire program. We've lost.

[Fantasy land]
CLOWN: We've won. We've won. We've won. Start the music. Start the music. Celebration! Celebration! Celebration!

[Sickbay]
EMH: Your decision to capitulate saved the lives of the other hostages, Captain. You should take some comfort from that.
JANEWAY: I don't. Have I misjudged him somehow? Is there another way to reach him? Isn't there more to fear than a simple demand to exist? Why do people enjoy dangerous sports or holodeck adventures with the safety off? Why, after all these centuries, do children still ride on roller coasters?
EMH: Fear can provide pleasure. To seek fear is to seek the boundaries of one's sensory experience.
JANEWAY: But what does fear seek at the end of the ride?

[Fantasy land]
CLOWN: You understand, don't you, Harry, that we will have to punish you for your captain's little trick? To the winner go the spoils, and you are the spoils, after all. We can talk about that later. For now, enjoy yourself.
CLOWN: Well, you certainly know how to bring a party to a halt.
EMH: I don't get out very much.
CLOWN: I bet.
EMH: The captain has sent me with an ultimatum.
CLOWN: Ultimatum? Ultimatum? She would give me an ultimatum? Did Napoleon give an ultimatum after Waterloo? Did Chulak of Romulus give an ultimatum after his defeat at Galorndon Core? We won! We give the ultimatums around here.
EMH: The captain is prepared to shut down the system one minute from now if you don't agree to her terms.
CLOWN: And scramble the brains of all my guests, including Harry? I don't think so.
EMH: Fifty two seconds. She is willing to risk brain damage to the hostages, but she will end this, and end this now, one way or another.
CLOWN: What are her terms?
EMH: Forty three seconds. She will allow you to keep one person on the system. The other hostages must be released.
CLOWN: One? Never! I won't agree!
EMH: You have thirty seconds to avoid termination.
CLOWN: I need more time. Time to think. Two! Let me keep two.
EMH: Twenty seconds. There is another provision. The one hostage you will be allowed to keep is Captain Janeway herself.
CLOWN: She would choose to be with me?
EMH: Your time is up. Your answer, please.
CLOWN: Yes.

[Cargo Bay 1]
EMH (voiceover): Captain, this is the Doctor. I've returned to sick bay. Please turn to your Emergency Medical Holographic channel.
JANEWAY: Did he accept?
EMH (screen): Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Perfect. Good work, Doctor.
EMH (screen): Would you like me to return and supervise the evacuation of the hostages?
JANEWAY: I don't think that'll be necessary, but you could help with the preparations at this end. Janeway out.
TORRES: We're finished here, Captain.
JANEWAY: Initiate the recall subroutine and prepare to begin resuscitation. Kes, give me a hand getting hooked up to all this.

[Fantasy land]
CLOWN: Sparkling. I want everything sparkling for her arrival. Sparkling.
CLOWN: Ah, ah, ah, ah, Harry, not so fast. They can't have you until I have her. No more tricks.
CLOWN: Oh. Oh, she's coming. I can feel the system beginning to scan her brain. This really is such an extraordinary gesture she's making. I am so moved. You don't quite believe it yourself, do you?
KIM: The captain would sacrifice herself to save the hostages.
CLOWN: Sacrifice herself? You can be so cruel, Harry. You don't appreciate my hospitality.
CLOWN: You're here. You're actually here. I don't believe it.
JANEWAY: The arrangement was that the others would be released.
CLOWN: You show remarkable trust, Captain. How could you be so sure I would keep my word?
JANEWAY: I've known fear. It's a very healthy thing most of the time. You warn us of danger, remind us of our limits, protect us from carelessness. I've learned to trust fear.
CLOWN: Finally, someone who appreciates me. Am I blushing?
JANEWAY: Let them go.
CLOWN: Yes, yes, of course. You may depart. Farewell, my friends. Do come back and visit. I'll always be here.

[Cargo Bay 1]
TORRES: The recall subroutine has been activated.
KES: Body temperatures are rising.
TORRES: Initiating all backup systems. The hostages should regain consciousness in less than ten minutes.

[Fantasy land]
KIM: We'll get you out of here, Captain. I promise.
JANEWAY: That won't be necessary, Mister Kim, but thank you.
CLOWN: I can't wait to get to know you, to make you a part of me.
JANEWAY: As I understand it, it takes a few minutes before you become aware of my thoughts. Is that true?
CLOWN: An eternity of anticipation.
JANEWAY: And then what happens?
CLOWN: And then the fun begins.

[Cargo Bay 1]
TORRES: All systems functioning as anticipated. Resuscitation entering final warming.
KES: Bio-functions are returning to normal. Their own hearts are taking over. They don't need supplemental life support any longer.

[Fantasy land]
JANEWAY: Would you be honest with me?
CLOWN: Fear is the most honest of all emotions, Captain.
JANEWAY: You really want this to end as much as I do, don't you?
CLOWN: Now, now, don't even think about leaving. I'm not going to let you go, not after all this. Mirror? Don't we make a beautiful couple, Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm not Captain Janeway.
CLOWN: Could have fooled me.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I did.
CLOWN: Pardon?
JANEWAY: I'm nothing more than a holographic image of Captain Janeway, sent here by the same technique they used to send their Doctor. I've been programmed to respond to you as Kathryn Janeway would.
CLOWN: But, but, I, I feel you. You, You're on the system.
JANEWAY: She is on the system, yes, but not in stasis. Captain Janeway and her crew modified the pods so that she could be connected to the system without having to enter this environment. The goal was to let you sense her brain activity without putting her in actual jeopardy. You will be able to confirm what I'm telling you as soon as you become aware of her thoughts.
JANEWAY: You know as well as I do that fear only exists for one purpose. To be conquered.
CLOWN: She tricked me.
JANEWAY: Did she? Or was a part of you actually hoping to be defeated? Isn't that why you allowed Captain Janeway to come here? Because you sensed she had the power to subdue you.
CLOWN: No. She lied. That was very un-Starfleet of her.
JANEWAY: Starfleet captains don't easily succumb to fear.
CLOWN: What will become of us? Of me?
JANEWAY: Like all fear, you eventually vanish.
CLOWN: I'm afraid.
JANEWAY: I know.
CLOWN: Drat.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 49655.2. Our sensors have located a variety of flower which may prove to be a valuable nutritional supplement. I have sent Mister Neelix and Mister Tuvok to collect samples.

[Planet surface]
NEELIX: Oh, smell that air, Mister Vulcan. Look at that sky. Oh, it's an exhilarating day, isn't it?
TUVOK: As you well know by now, Mister Neelix, I do not experience exhilaration.
NEELIX: Oh, let's not quibble about semantics. A breeze is blowing. The sun is shining. It's beautiful.
TUVOK: The weather is certainly adequate for our purposes.
NEELIX: Adequate? You know something? You're acting more Tuvokian than usual this morning.
TUVOK: I am who I am, Mister Neelix. It is impossible for me to be more or less like myself.
NEELIX: There you go with the semantics again. But you know what I'm talking about.
TUVOK: I'm afraid I don't.
NEELIX: Well, then I'll explain it to you. You're a nature lover, aren't you?
TUVOK: I appreciate nature, yes.
NEELIX: Then it's one of the things that you and I have in common. And here we are, on a perfect day, foraging for an exceptionally lovely variety of orchid, your favorite flower, and all you can say about the experience is that it's adequate. I just, I don't see why you're not having fun.
TUVOK: We are not here to have fun. We are here to collect samples.
NEELIX: Why, is there some regulation that says we can't do both at the same time? I know. Why don't, why don't we sing a song while we toil, hmm? It'll cheer you up. Now, I've been studying Vulcan music. Do you know that lovely tune that starts, Oh starless night of boundless black.
TUVOK: That lovely tune is a traditional funeral dirge.
NEELIX: I know, but it was the most cheerful song I could find in the Vulcan database. Come on, Tuvok, join me. Oh starless night of boundless black.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Yes?
TUVOK: Do you think you could possibly behave a little less like yourself?

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Are Neelix and Tuvok back from the surface?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. We're having some trouble with the transporter.
TORRES: Captain, there's a minor glitch in the molecular imaging scanners. Ensign Kim should have it up and running in a few minutes.

[Transporter room]
KIM: Try narrowing the annular confinement beam.
HOGAN: How's that?
KIM: Let's try it again. Kim to Away team. Sorry for the delay. We're ready to bring you back.
TUVOK (voiceover): Acknowledged.
KIM: Energize.
HOGAN: There's something wrong, sir. I'm only getting one pattern.
KIM: Tuvok or Neelix?
HOGAN: I don't think it's either of them.
KIM: Abort.
HOGAN: It's too late.
KIM: Kim to Security. Intruder alert, Transporter Room One. Identify yourself.
TUVIX: I am Lieutenant Tuvok. And I am Neelix.
HOGAN: Sir, according to the bio-scanners, he's right. Somehow, their patterns have merged.
TUVIX: I think the logical thing is for me to go to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: And you recognize all of us?
TUVIX: Of course. Doctor, Captain Janeway, Ensign Kim, Kes.
EMH: My scans indicate that all biological matter was merged on a molecular level. Proteins, enzymes, DNA sequences. The man you see before you is literally a fusion of two men. But he's surprisingly healthy considering the circumstances. All vital signs are stable.
JANEWAY: What's the last thing you remember?
TUVIX: I, we, that is to say, Tuvok and Neelix, we had just finished gathering the samples. We were beaming back to the ship. The next thing I knew, I was standing on the transporter pad, as you see me now.
EMH: I'm also picking up traces of a third genetic pattern. It appears to be plant-based.
TUVIX: The orchids. We had collected several dozen samples of orchids. They were in our sample containers when we beamed up.
EMH: Well, they're part of your genetic structure now. But they don't appear to be affecting your biochemistry.
JANEWAY: Torres said you were having trouble with the molecular imaging scanners.
KIM: That's right.
JANEWAY: Maybe this alien plant life affected the scanners in some way.
KIM: Possibly. I'll know more after we've run a diagnostic on the bio-filters and transporter logs.
JANEWAY: Get on it.
JANEWAY: In the meantime, I'll send an away team in a shuttlecraft to collect fresh samples of the orchid for further study. Doctor, let me know as soon as you have something more.
EMH: Yes, Captain.
EMH: Kes, take our patient to the science lab and perform a full bio-spectral analysis. I'll start examining the genetic data.

[Science lab]
TUVIX: This situation must be very difficult for you, Kes. Perhaps it would be easier if someone else administered these tests.
KES: Thank you for your concern, but I'll be fine. This scan is very delicate, so try to remain still for the next twenty minutes.
TUVIX: I'll do my best.
KES: Don't worry. We're going to figure it out.
TUVIX: Oh, I'm not worried. I couldn't be in better hands. This crew, you're consummate professionals. You're my friends, my family. So worrying would be illogical, don't you think?
KES: Would you mind if I asked you some questions about what you're going through?
TUVIX: Not at all.
KES: Well, do you feel as if you're thinking with two minds, two separate minds? Are Neelix and Tuvok inside of you, talking to me, talking to each other?
TUVIX: If you mean am I suffering from some form of multiple personality disorder, I don't think so. I do have the memories of both men, but I seem to have a single consciousness. You must find me very odd, Kes.
KES: No, of course not. Try to keep still. So, what should I call you?
TUVIX: Ah, a name. I hadn't thought of that. What an intriguing question. I can see why the Doctor's finding it so difficult to choose one. A name can have a significant effect upon a person's sense of identity. I've got it.
KES: What?
TUVIX: Why don't you call me Neevok? Wait. This is better. How about Tuvix?
KES: Tuvix it is.
TUVIX: I am so glad you're here to help me through this, sweeting. I'm sorry. It was instinct.
KES: Why don't we finish the scan? Chief Medical Officer's Log, supplemental. Extensive microcellular scans on the merged humanoid have thus far yielded no clues to either a cause or a method of separation.

[Sickbay]
TUVIX: Ah, Captain. So good of you to come.
JANEWAY: How are you feeling?
TUVIX: I feel well. You might even say exhilarated!
JANEWAY: I'm glad to hear it.
TUVIX: Well, that's what I wanted to talk to you about. In the past twenty four hours, I've undergone rigorous diagnostic testing, submitted to an extensive psychological profile, and I've been poked and prodded in organs that I didn't even know I had. While all this testing may, no doubt, be necessary, frankly, I'm restless.
JANEWAY: To tell you the truth, we could use a little help in the Mess hall.
TUVIX: And I'd be glad to give you a hand. But, after careful consideration, I've decided that the most sensible thing for me to do is to resume the tactical post.
JANEWAY: Tactical?
TUVIX: Remember, Captain, I do possess Tuvok's knowledge and expertise. And while I have no doubt that the crew misses Neelix's cooking, you need your most experienced tactical officer. That's me.
EMH: If I may, Captain. Mister Tuvix
JANEWAY: Tuvix?
EMH: Apparently, that's what he likes to be called. Mister Tuvix is indeed in perfect health. And since I've collected all the data I need, there's no reason I can't continue my investigation without him for the time being. And according to my tests, he's quite correct when he says that he possesses Tuvok's knowledge and expertise. He also possesses Tuvok's irritating sense of intellectual superiority and Neelix's annoying ebullience. I would be very grateful to you if you would assign him some duty, any duty somewhere else.
JANEWAY: Well, Mister Tuvix, I'm not ready to assign you to the Bridge just yet, but why don't you join the senior staff for our noon briefing, and we'll see how it goes from there.
TUVIX: Captain, has anyone ever told you that you are as fair-minded as you are lovely?
JANEWAY: As a matter of fact, Neelix has told me that occasionally. And if you really do possess his memories, you'd know that flattery will get you nowhere.

[Briefing room]
TORRES: The transporter was functioning normally. Bio-filters, pattern buffers, everything checked out.
JANEWAY: What about the problem with the molecular imaging scanners?
KIM: According to the transporter logs, they were optimal at the time of transport. It was a perfectly routine beam-out sequence. No anomalies, no power overloads, no malfunctions.
PARIS: Our scans of the planet's surface and atmosphere don't show anything out of the ordinary.
CHAKOTAY: There's no evidence of any type of alien interference. Frankly, Captain, we're at a loss.
JANEWAY: And the orchids, Kes. Have you found anything unusual about them?
KES: Commander Chakotay brought back a few samples on the shuttle and I ran a biochemical analysis. They contain the same elements as many plants. Chloroplasts, lysosomal enzymes, cytoplasmic proteins, but there's nothing unusual.
JANEWAY: There's never been an accident like this recorded in the entire history of transporter technology. I'm not willing to accept it as a random malfunction.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I recommend we program a holodeck simulation. Try recreating the accident.
TUVIX: Sex.
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon?
TUVIX: What I mean to say is, and I apologize for cutting you off, Commander, I think we're on the wrong track. Kes, you said that the flowers you examined contained lysosomal enzymes.
KES: That's right.
TUVIX: According to Tuvok's botanical research, the presence of lysosomal enzymes could be evidence of symbiogenesis.
KES: Symbiogenesis?
JANEWAY: Symbiogenesis is a rare reproductive process. Instead of pollination or mating, symbiogenetic organisms merge with a second species.
TUVIX: Andorian amoeba for instance. They're able to merge with other single-celled organisms to form a third unique species, a hybrid.
KES: Like you.
TUVIX: Exactly.
JANEWAY: It's an interesting idea. But we're talking about microcellular organisms here. I've never heard of symbiogenesis occurring in a species as complex as a humanoid.
TUVIX: Actually Captain, when you think about it, Neelix and Tuvok were broken down to a microcellular level during transport. DNA, protein, all in a state of molecular flux.
KIM: And if the enzymes that cause symbiogenesis interacted with their DNA while they were in the matter stream, it might have caused their patterns to merge.
JANEWAY: Like an Andorian amoeba.
TUVIX: Just like that, Tuvix is born.
JANEWAY: It's the best theory I've heard so far. It's the only theory I've heard so far, and it's worth investigating. Mister Paris, take a shuttle to the planet and collect additional flower specimens.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am, but I'd recommend waiting until morning. The weather on the planet can get pretty nasty at night.
JANEWAY: Very well. You'll depart at six hundred hours.
JANEWAY: Good work, Mister Tuvix.

[Corridor]
TUVIX: Kes.
KES: Oh, hello.
TUVIX: Hello.
KES: Do you need something?
TUVIX: Oh, actually, I was wondering if you'd like to join me for dinner?
KES: Well, I, er
TUVIX: You've already eaten?
KES: Well, no.
TUVIX: You're not hungry?
KES: Actually
TUVIX: If memory serves me, Wednesday is the day that Neelix always cooked Trellan crepes. Your favorite meal?
KES: That's right.
TUVIX: Well, why break with tradition just because of a little transporter accident?

[Mess hall]
HOGAN: Somebody's eggs are burning.
SWINN: Those are mine. Can you flip them for me?
HOGAN: I can't find a spatula.
SWINN: Just try tossing them.
TUVIX: Er, why don't you have a seat. I'll be with you in a minute. Do you mind telling me what's going on here, crewman?
HOGAN: We're making dinner.
TUVIX: I see. All right, everybody out!
HOGAN: On whose authority?
TUVIX: Chief of Security or Head Chef. Take your pick. Out, out, out! Come, come, out.
TUVIX: So, you really enjoyed the crepes?
KES: Oh, they were absolutely delicious.
TUVIX: Don't you think Neelix always made them a little too spicy?
KES: These were a little different than usual. Did you change the recipe?
TUVIX: Oh, only slightly. I thought more moderate seasoning would allow the flavor of the mushrooms to come through.
KES: I loved the mushrooms.
TUVIX: Oh, I'm glad. I can't believe how disorganized this galley was. It's a wonder Neelix ever found anything.
KES: Well, he says he has a system. But I guess you already know that.
TUVIX: I admire your strength, Kes.
KES: Why do you say that?
TUVIX: I know I'm not Neelix, but I can posit with complete certainty that if the situation were reversed, if suddenly he found himself without you in his life, he'd be absolutely lost.
KES: I have to go. Thanks again for dinner.

[Bridge]
TUVIX: Good morning, Captain, Commander.
JANEWAY: You're here bright and early, Lieutenant.
TUVIX: Actually, I've been here since oh four hundred hours. I wanted to work on that proximity detector glitch in the security subroutine.
JANEWAY: And how's it going?
TUVIX: I managed to correct it.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok said it could take up to ten days to check out all the possible problems. How'd you fix it so fast?
TUVIX: I had a hunch.
JANEWAY: A hunch?
TUVIX: That's correct. You'll have a report on your desk first thing this afternoon.
KIM (voiceover): Kim to Mister Tuvix.
TUVIX: Tuvix here.
KIM (voiceover): We're just about ready to start the transporter tests if you'd like to join us.
TUVIX: I'm on my way. Excuse me, Captain.
JANEWAY: Well, he's certainly fitting in, isn't he?
CHAKOTAY: There's an old axiom. The whole is never greater than the sum of its parts. I think Tuvix might be disproving that notion.

[Planet surface]
TORRES: Give me the flowers from the Airponics bay.
PARIS: Here you go. One prize-winning chrysanthemum, one garden-variety clematis, and last but not least, one symbiogenetic alien orchid.
TORRES: I never thought that botanical science class would come in so handy.
TORRES: Torres to Transporter room one.

[Transporter room]
TORRES (voiceover): We're ready down here.
KIM: Acknowledged. Energizing.

[Sickbay]
EMH: We've made over a hundred attempts to reverse the symbiogenesis using the medical transporter, and each time this has been the unfortunate result. Complete cellular collapse.
KIM: The genetic codes of the chrysanthemum and the clematis are so scrambled that the targeting scanners can't recognize the original patterns.
TUVIX: I suppose it would be like trying to extract the flour, eggs and water after you've baked the cake.
EMH: Obviously, in the case of Mister Tuvix, we're dealing with a much more complex organism than a flower. In effect, we're talking about recreating two humanoid life-forms without so much as a single discrete strand of DNA to start with.
TUVIX: Are you saying I'm going to be this way forever?
EMH: I am an incredibly skilled doctor, and I will continue to pursue a safe and effective treatment until I find one. But I won't lie to you. I'm not optimistic. It could take months, even years, to find a solution. And we must face the possibility that this condition is simply untreatable. I feel as though I've lost two patients. I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: I'll inform the rest of the crew.

[Kes's quarters]
KES: Come in.
TUVIX: I hope I'm not disturbing you.
KES: It's all right. Er, please, sit down.
TUVIX: Ocampan prayer tapers. For Tuvok and Neelix?
KES: It's funny. If something happened to Tuvok, if Neelix were here, he'd be the first person to comfort me. And if I lost Neelix, Tuvok would be the first person to guide me spiritually. Now I don't have either of them.
TUVIX: You have me, Kes.
KES: Thank you, but
TUVIX: I remind you of what you've lost.
KES: It's not your fault.
TUVIX: I know, and I'm trying to accept who I am now. Captain Janeway tells me there's a place for me on this ship, but I can't help feeling like, like some sort of impostor.
KES: Maybe we can help each other get through this.
TUVIX: That's what I've been hoping. I know this is going to sound very strange to you, perhaps even illogical, since in a way, we've only known each other a few days, but I want you to know I love you, Kes.
KES: But I hardly know you. And besides, what about, what about Tuvok's wife for one thing? He was completely devoted to her. What happens when Voyager gets back home? Are you just going to forget her?
TUVIX: I could never forget T'Pel. I carry Tuvok's love for her inside me. And I would never ask you to forget Neelix.
KES: How can you talk this way?
TUVIX: Because I carry Neelix's love for you inside me as well, and I always will. You heard the Doctor. It could be years before he finds a way to bring Tuvok and Neelix back, if ever. For you, that might be a lifetime.
KES: Please go.
TUVIX: I'm sorry. I should have controlled my emotions. All I really came to say is that I'll be here for you, if you need me.

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Kes.
KES: Captain. I'm sorry. I shouldn't have bothered you this late. I'll, er, talk to you tomorrow.
JANEWAY: Actually, I was having trouble sleeping. I could use some company. Would you like some hot tea? Please, sit down. I was just looking over some old letters Tuvok sent me when he was temporarily assigned to Jupiter Station. Most people would say his writing is cold, analytical, detached, but I've always found it to be concise, efficient, thoughtful. I hear his voice when I read the words. And Neelix. I'd become so fond of him, Kes. I can't imagine what you're going through.
KES: I wanted to talk to you about Tuvix. He came to see me this afternoon.
JANEWAY: Oh?
KES: He said, he said that he loves me.
JANEWAY: Well, I suppose I can see how that's possible, given the circumstances.
KES: I wasn't sure what to say. At first, I was angry. But I know how he's trying to comfort me, and I know that he feels alone too. To tell the truth, he's a wonderful person.
JANEWAY: Do you have feelings for him too, Kes?
KES: No, I don't. I mean, how could I? I still love Neelix, and I'm not ready to give up on him, no matter what the Doctor says.
JANEWAY: I know how you feel. You're experiencing what people on this crew have been going through since we first got stranded in this quadrant. Do we accept that we're separated from our loved ones forever, or do we hold onto the hope that someday we'll be with them again?
KES: What do you do, Captain?
JANEWAY: Oh, I struggle with it every day. Sometimes I'm full of hope and optimism. Other times. Then I dream about being with Mark and it's so real. Then when I wake up and realize it's just a dream, I'm terribly discouraged. In those moments, it's impossible to deny just how far away he really is. And I know that someday I may have to accept that he's not part of my life anymore.
KES: So are you saying that I should just accept that Neelix isn't a part of my life anymore?
JANEWAY: I would never tell you or anyone else to give up hope, Kes. I think the best thing you can do now is give yourself time.
KES: Thank you, Captain. I'll go now and let you sleep.
JANEWAY: My door is always open to you, Kes. Captain's log, stardate 49678.4. It's been two weeks since the transporter accident that created Mister Tuvix, and while it's still not entirely clear that he's with us permanently, he's certainly been doing his best to settle in. The crew seems to be growing accustomed to his presence, and he's proving to be a very able tactical officer who isn't afraid to express his opinions. While he's forging relationships with many of the officers, he seems to be keeping a respectful distance from Kes, allowing her to adjust to the circumstances on her own terms. As for my relationship with Tuvix, I've found him to be an able advisor who skillfully uses humor to make his points. And although I feel a bit guilty saying it, his cooking is better than Neelix's. My taste buds are definitely happy to have him around.

[Kim's quarters]
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to Ensign Kim. Please turn to your Emergency Medical Holographic Channel.
KIM: How can I help you, Doc?
EMH (screen): Suppose I found a radioisotope that could selectively attach itself to specific DNA sequences. Could the surgical transporters be reprogrammed to lock onto those enhanced sequences and separate them from the remaining DNA?
KIM: Well, I think so, but we'd have to modify the molecular imaging scanners and find a way to compensate for the higher levels of radiation.
EMH (screen): Thank you, Ensign.
KIM: Wait a second. What's going on?
EMH (screen): It's pure speculation at this point. I'll let you know when I've learned more.
KIM: This is about Tuvix, isn't it? I'm on my way.

[Sandrine's]
TUVIX: Eight ball, corner pocket. That's game again, Commander.
PARIS: We've created a monster.
CHAKOTAY: Best out of five?
TUVIX: Would you mind if we finish this later, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Not at all.
KES: Hi.
TUVIX: Hi. Well, how've you been?
KES: Good days and bad days. You?
TUVIX: Me too.
KES: Listen, I'm sorry I've been so distant lately.
TUVIX: Kes, you don't owe me an explanation.
KES: I've been doing a lot of thinking. And I'm hoping that we can be friends.
TUVIX: I would like that very much.
KES: And I'd like our friendship to grow.
TUVIX: You would?
KES: Yes. But it's going to take time.
TUVIX: I'm not going anywhere.
EMH (voiceover): Doctor to Lieutenant Tuvix.
TUVIX: Tuvix here.
EMH (voiceover): Please report to Sickbay immediately.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Until late in the twenty first century, physicians administered barium to patients with certain gastrointestinal disorders. The radioactive properties of the barium made the lining of the intestines visible with a primitive imaging technology called X-rays.
KIM: Instead of barium, we've come up with a radioisotope that attaches itself to the DNA of one of the merged species, but not the other.
EMH: Then we simply beam out the selected DNA and segregate the two merged species.
KIM: You see these? They used to be a single merged flower.
KES: And you can use the same process?
EMH: It will require a more detailed reprogramming of the transporter, but, yes, I believe we can restore Mister Tuvok and Mister Neelix.
KES: That's wonderful. Isn't that wonderful?
EMH: I assure you, Mister Tuvix, there's nothing to worry about. We've accounted for every variable.
TUVIX: Except one. I don't want to die.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: It's funny. If we'd had the ability to separate Tuvok and Neelix the moment Tuvix came aboard, I wouldn't have hesitated.
CHAKOTAY: Of course not.
JANEWAY: But now, in the past few weeks, he's begun to make a life for himself on this ship. He's taken on responsibilities, made friends.
CHAKOTAY: I count myself as one of them.
JANEWAY: So at what point, did he become an individual and not a transporter accident? Come in.
TUVIX: You wanted to see me, Captain?
JANEWAY: Yes, Mister Tuvix. Please, sit down.
TUVIX: I feel as though I have been dragged in front of the Numerian Inquisition.
JANEWAY: Will you excuse us, Commander?
JANEWAY: We've just been discussing the unfortunate predicament that we're all facing, and I thought it was important to get your perspective before making a decision.
TUVIX: Are you suggesting that this is your decision to make?
JANEWAY: I am the Captain of this ship.
TUVIX: Begging your pardon, Captain, it's my life. Isn't it my decision?
JANEWAY: Aren't there two other lives to consider here? What about Tuvok and Neelix? Two voices that we can't hear right now. As Captain, I must be their voice, and I believe they would want to live.
TUVIX: But they are living in a way, inside me.
JANEWAY: It's not the same and I think you'd agree with me. They have families, friends, people who love them and miss them and want them back, just as I do.
TUVIX: But restoring their lives means sacrificing mine. Captain, what you're considering is an execution. An execution, like they used to do to murderers centuries ago. And I've committed no crime at all.
JANEWAY: Aren't you arguing for an execution too? Of Tuvok and Neelix.
TUVIX: I'm here, alive. Unfortunate as it may be, they're gone.
JANEWAY: And I have an opportunity to bring them back.
TUVIX: Don't you think that I care about Tuvok and Neelix? Of course I do. Without them, I wouldn't exist. In a way, I think of them as my parents. I feel like I know them intimately.
JANEWAY: Then you know Tuvok was a man who would gladly give his life to save another. And I believe the same was true of Neelix.
TUVIX: You're right, Captain. That is the Starfleet way. And I know there'll be some people who, who'll call me a coward because I didn't sacrifice myself willingly. Believe me, I've thought of that. But I have the will to live of two men. Look at me, Captain. When I'm happy, I laugh. When I'm sad, I cry. When I stub my toe, I yell out in pain. I'm flesh and blood, and I have the right to live.

[Mess hall]
TUVIX: Kes, I need your help. I've just come from the Captain, and she's thinking about forcing me to go through with the separation. If anybody can make a difference, Kes, it's you. She'll listen to you. We've helped each other through this and I know that you care about what happens to me. Please, Kes, you may be my only hope.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
KES: Captain, Tuvix has asked me to speak to you on his behalf. But I can't.
JANEWAY: He shouldn't have put you in the middle of this.
KES: But I am in the middle. I have been since the moment of the accident. I don't know how to say goodbye to Neelix and Tuvok. I know this sounds horrible, and I feel so guilty for saying it, and Tuvix doesn't deserve to die, but I want Neelix back.

[Bridge]
TUVIX: You're excused, Ensign.
TUVIX: Mister Paris, what is our present speed?
PARIS: Warp six point five.
TUVIX: I'd like to conduct a field test of the aft sensor array. Please, slow to impulse.
PARIS: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Until the Captain makes a decision, Mister Tuvix is still the tactical officer.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvix, I'd like to speak to you alone.
TUVIX: Can I assume that you've come to a decision, Captain?
JANEWAY: I have.
TUVIX: I think we all should hear what you have to say.
JANEWAY: Please come with me, Mister Tuvix.
TUVIX: No.
JANEWAY: I'm ordering you to come with me. Security to the Bridge.
TUVIX: Commander, are you going to stand by and do nothing while she commits murder? Mister Ayala. Yes, Lieutenant Paris. You. Doesn't anyone see that this is wrong?
JANEWAY: Let him go.
TUVIX: Each of you is going to have to live with this, and I'm sorry for that, for you are all good, good people. My colleagues, my friends, I forgive you.
JANEWAY: Commander Chakotay, advise the Doctor we're on our way to Sickbay.

[Turbolift]
JANEWAY: Deck five.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I'm sorry, Captain, but I cannot perform the surgical separation. I am a physician, and a physician must do no harm. I will not take Mister Tuvix's life against his will.
JANEWAY: Very well, Doctor. Please step aside.
JANEWAY: I assume this is the radioisotope.
JANEWAY: Please sit down on this biobed.
JANEWAY: Locking surgical targeting scanners onto the isotope probe. Initiating separation sequence. Energizing.
KES: Neelix!
NEELIX: Hello, sweeting.
TUVOK: Greetings, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok. Mister Neelix. It's good to have you back.

[Planet surface]
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to the Captain. This is the Doctor speaking.
JANEWAY: You've brought us out of stasis. I assume you have news.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Yes. Our sensors show your vital signs are normal. How are you feeling?

[Planet surface]
JANEWAY: We're fine. How long were we in stasis?

[Doctor's office]
EMH: A total of seventeen days.
JANEWAY (voiceover): That long?
EMH: I wanted to exhaust every possibility of finding a cure.
JANEWAY (voiceover): And?
EMH: I regret to inform you that I have been unsuccessful.

[Planet surface]
EMH (voiceover): I have not been able to develop a counteragent for the virus, and I have no other options to explore.
CHAKOTAY: What about keeping us in stasis aboard Voyager?
EMH (voiceover): Something in the planet's environment is shielding you from the effects of the virus.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: If you leave, you risk a recurrence of the disease, which would undoubtedly prove fatal. The only option I can think of at the moment is contacting the Vidiians. They have sophisticated medical technology. It's possible they might be able to help.

[Planet surface]
JANEWAY: We'll take it under advisement, Doctor. Thank you for your efforts. Janeway out. What do you think?
CHAKOTAY: It's risky. The Vidiians have never shown any willingness to help us. It's more likely they'd attack Voyager and try to harvest body parts from the crew.
JANEWAY: Agreed. I just want to make sure we're not overlooking a possible alternative.
CHAKOTAY: Could we live with ourselves, knowing we sent Voyager into that kind of danger?
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok.
TUVOK (voiceover): I'm here, Captain.
JANEWAY: You must be aware of the Doctor's report.
TUVOK: Yes.
JANEWAY: I'm turning over command of the ship to you on a permanent

[Ready room]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Basis. Your orders are to resume a course for the Alpha Quadrant.

[Planet surface]
JANEWAY: And regardless of the Doctor's suggestion, you are not to make contact with the Vidiians.

[Ready room]
TUVOK: I understand.

[Planet surface]
JANEWAY: I'll prepare a message for the crew.

[Briefing room]
TORRES: So we're just going to abandon them on this planet?
TUVOK: Those were Captain Janeway's express orders.
PARIS: But you're captain now. You can rescind them.
TUVOK: To what end?
TORRES: I can't believe we haven't been able to find a cure for an insect bite.
KES: The Doctor hasn't deactivated himself for a month. He's tried everything. He searched every database, attempted the most drastic research. You can't fault him.
NEELIX: I can tell you, the morale of the crew is going to suffer if we leave them behind.
TUVOK: Not if, Mister Neelix. When we leave them behind. The decision has been made. We will of course, provide them with everything they'll need for their survival and comfort. I am arranging for a modular shelter to be transported to the surface. They'll have all the technology they need. Weapons, tricorders, a replicator.
TORRES: You talk as though it were a camping trip. They have to spend the rest of their lives down there.
TUVOK: That is not a certainty. Captain Janeway intends to continue researching the virus. She is an able scientist, and may eventually be able to effect a cure. They have a type nine shuttlecraft at their disposal if it becomes possible for them to leave the planet.
PARIS: Type nine shuttlecraft has a top speed of warp four. It won't take them more than, oh, about seven hundred years to get home.
TUVOK: I'm not certain what it is you expect me to do, Lieutenant.
PARIS: I guess clearly something you can't do, which is to feel as rotten about this as we do.
TUVOK: You are correct that I am unable to experience that emotion. And frankly, I fail to see what the benefit would be. If there is nothing more, you are all dismissed.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Tuvok.
TUVOK: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We've received the transport. We'll check it over and let you know if we're missing anything.
TUVOK: I will remain in orbit until I hear from you. And after that, we can still remain in communication for approximately thirty six hours.

[Planet surface]
JANEWAY: I'll contact you before the day is over. Janeway out.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like they transported the contents of the whole ship.
JANEWAY: We may have to be here for a while. Petri dishes, protein analyzer, DNA sequencers. Everything I need for my research is here.
CHAKOTAY: Do you really think you can find a cure?
JANEWAY: It may take a while but yes I do. If I can find a specimen of the insect that infected us, I can begin analyzing protein cofactors. That might give us the information we need to find out what it is in this environment that's keeping us from being sick and how to replicate it.
CHAKOTAY: Does it matter which way these things go?
JANEWAY: I guess it depends whether you're in a beige mood or a gray mood.
CHAKOTAY: That's not much of a choice. Couldn't Starfleet have come up with something a little more cheerful?
JANEWAY: Like polka dots?
CHAKOTAY: I was thinking more of a tasteful pinstripe, something in blues and greens. Well, I suggest we put the gray on the outside and the beige inside.
JANEWAY: I like that. I've always looked better in beige. Actually, it might be kind of interesting, roughing it for a while.
CHAKOTAY: Roughing it? Let's see, we have shelter, furniture, research equipment, tricorders, a replicator. It's too rough for me.
JANEWAY: We don't have a bathtub.
CHAKOTAY: A bathtub?
JANEWAY: I love a bath. It's my favorite way of relaxing.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I'm sure you can learn to love the sonic shower.
JANEWAY: You know, Chakotay, it occurs to me, we aren't exactly in a command structure anymore. Maybe you should call me Kathryn.
CHAKOTAY: Give me a few days on that one, okay?

[Engineering]
TORRES: This diagnostic report looks like it was written by a first-year Academy cadet. There are mistakes. It's incomplete.
SWINN: I'm sorry, Lieutenant. I guess I've been distracted.
TORRES: We've all been distracted, Ensign. That's no excuse.
SWINN: Yes, ma'am.
TORRES: I can't get anything done here. Nobody can concentrate.
KIM: I know how they feel.
TORRES: I'm not feeling so terrific myself, but I don't let that get in the way of my work.
KIM: B'Elanna, I've been talking with some of the Starfleet crew. They're not happy about what happened. I was wondering, how are the Maquis taking it?
TORRES: How do you think they're taking it? This isn't a Starfleet issue, Harry. It's affecting everyone.
KIM: Then why don't we do something about it?
TORRES: Do what?
KIM: I don't know. It seems like we shouldn't just accept this.
TORRES: Well, that's all well and good, but frankly, I can't think of anything else we can do. If you have any ideas, I'll listen. Otherwise, I think we should take a deep breath and move on.

[Planet surface]
CHAKOTAY: Catch anything?
JANEWAY: Just the same ones as yesterday, and they don't seem to carry the pathogen that's infected us. Where have you been?
CHAKOTAY: Oh, in the woods.
JANEWAY: For the past two days, you've been spending a lot of time in the woods. Is something going on I should know about?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet.
JANEWAY: Not yet? What's that supposed to mean?
CHAKOTAY: It means when it's time for you to know, I'll tell you.
JANEWAY: Don't I even get hints?
CHAKOTAY: I'm building something.
JANEWAY: Building. What could you be building? And why can't you tell me?
CHAKOTAY: You can't stand it, can you? You're like a little kid wheedling.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.
TUVOK (voiceover): We're about to move out of communications range. How are you faring?
JANEWAY: We're doing quite well. I'd like to speak to the crew now.
TUVOK (voiceover): Your comm. link has been put through to the entire ship.
JANEWAY: This is Kathryn Janeway. I've never liked saying good bye, so I'll make this brief, but I want you all to know that serving as your captain has been the most extraordinary experience of my life.

[Voyager]
JANEWAY (voiceover): No captain could ask more than what this crew has given. Bravery, compassion and strength of character. But I think what I'll miss most is the fun. The times we joked together, the games on the holodeck. I'll remember the laughter more than anything. Although Commander Chakotay and I won't be with you for the rest of your journey, we know that you'll be the same steadfast crew for Mister Tuvok as you have been for us. We wish you a safe and a speedy journey home. Our thoughts will be with you.

[Planet surface]
JANEWAY: Janeway out.
TUVOK (voiceover): Thank you, Captain, Commander. I am sure I speak for the entire crew when I say we will always remember your grace and courage. And I would like to add, it has been an honor serving with you. Live long and prosper. Kathryn Janeway's personal log, Stardate 49690.1. Day twenty four of our stay on the planet we've named New Earth. As yet I've been unable to make any progress in finding a cure for our illness, but a soak in the tub Chakotay built always helps me focus on possible solutions.

[Outside the shelter]
JANEWAY: Chakotay, are you there?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): No, I left an hour ago.
JANEWAY: I was thinking. Maybe looking for protein cofactors is the wrong approach. Even if I can't find a specimen of the insect that infected us, I could try to learn something about the bio-molecular evolution of this planet's ecozystem.

[Shelter]
CHAKOTAY: Can't hurt to give it a try.

[Outside the shelter]
JANEWAY: Chakotay!
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): What?
JANEWAY: Someone's in the woods!
JANEWAY: Over there. It looks like some kind of primate.
CHAKOTAY: I've detected primate life signs here, but I've never seen one.
JANEWAY: Hello. Are you hungry? Is that why you came here? I'm Kathryn, he's Chakotay. We've had to move into your neighborhood, but I hope we can be friends.
JANEWAY: Maybe he'll come back.
CHAKOTAY: Looking for a pet?
JANEWAY: No. Looking for a clue about primate physiology on this planet. They must have to contend with insect bites too.
CHAKOTAY: Well, excuse me.

[Shelter]
JANEWAY: Maybe we should be out looking for other primates. I might be missing something important.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, the Doctor worked for weeks trying to find a treatment for this disease.
JANEWAY: Yes?
CHAKOTAY: You've been at it twelve hours a day, seven days a week since we got here, and we're still no closer to a cure than we were the day we were infected.
JANEWAY: I'm not sure what you're getting at.
CHAKOTAY: My people have a saying. Even the eagle must know when to sleep. Maybe it's time we both considered that.
JANEWAY: You mean quit, give up?
CHAKOTAY: Why do you have to see it as defeat? Maybe it's simply accepting what life has dealt us, finding the good in it.
JANEWAY: There may be a day when I'll come to that, Chakotay, but, I'm a long way from it right now. I need to keep looking. Acting
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. After six weeks, the decision to leave Captain Janeway and the First Officer behind still seems to weigh heavily on the crew.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain Tuvok?
TUVOK: Yes, Ensign?
KIM: I'm picking up a convoy on long-range sensors. It's Vidiian, sir.
TUVOK: Distance?
KIM: Approximately one point five light years.
TUVOK: Lieutenant, alter course to a different heading. I don't want to risk their detecting us.
KIM: Sir, the Vidiians.
TUVOK: Yes?
KIM: They're within hailing range. We could ask them if they know anything about the Captain's illness.
TUVOK: You're aware that Captain Janeway specifically told us not to risk contacting the Vidiians.
KIM: Yes, but it's not like we went out of our way to find them. We would just be taking advantage of an opportunity that's presented itself.
TUVOK: That bit of sophistry is not terribly persuasive, Ensign.
KIM: Sir, how can we turn our backs on this chance to do something? Don't we have to try? Don't we owe that to the Captain and the Commander?
TUVOK: The matter is closed, Ensign. Return to your station.
KIM: What's wrong with the rest of you? You know I'm right.
TUVOK: Ensign Kim.
KIM: We have a chance to help them. How can we ignore that?
TUVOK: Ensign, you are relieved of duty. Leave the Bridge at once or I will have you put in the brig.
PARIS: Harry.
TUVOK: Proceed on the altered course, Lieutenant.

[Mess hall]
HOGAN: Excuse me. Ensign Kim, could we?
KIM: Sure. Have a seat.
SWINN: We just wanted you to know we heard what happened on the Bridge.
HOGAN: And we think you're absolutely right. We've got to contact the Vidiians.
SWINN: It's a risk, but it's worth it.
KIM: That's what I think, but Captain Tuvok's made his decision. Two ensigns and a crewman won't change his mind.
HOGAN: There are a lot more who agree with us.
SWINN: A lot.
KIM: Really.
HOGAN: Everyone we talk to can't believe that Tuvok won't give this a try.
KIM: Come on.
KIM: Did you hear what happened this morning?
TORRES: Sure did.
KIM: Three weeks ago, you said if I had an idea about what to do, you'd listen.
TORRES: I'm listening.
NEELIX: Is there something going on that I should know about?
KIM: Have a seat, Neelix. We might have come up with the biggest morale booster you could possibly imagine.

[Tuvok's quarters]
TUVOK: Come in.
KIM: Can I have a moment, sir?
TUVOK: It's zero one hundred hours, Ensign. Don't you have the early shift this morning?
KIM: Yes, sir, but this is important.
TUVOK: Very well.
KIM: First of all, I want to apologize for my behavior yesterday.
TUVOK: Apology accepted. I understand that this is a difficult situation for you.
KIM: I'd like to suggest a plan. It's something a lot of people have helped to develop. We have two big bargaining points when it comes to dealing with the Vidiians. First, there's the woman Doc treated, Denara Pel. They were very close, so I'm sure she'd help us if she could. And then there's B'Elanna. Her DNA might lead to a cure for the phage. We could offer them some, in exchange for their help with a cure for the Captain and Chakotay.
TUVOK: Those are, as you say, points in our favor. But there is also the fact that we were recently responsible for the destruction of a Vidiian ship, an act which killed over three hundred of their people. That alone makes it unwise for us to contact them.
KIM: Sir, I think you should know how many people on this ship disagree with you. Everyone I talk to thinks we should give this a try.
TUVOK: The people you talk to do not have the responsibility of commanding this vessel. I do. The safety of this crew is paramount, and I must do whatever I can to ensure that safety.
KIM: But if we're willing to take that risk in order to help the Captain
TUVOK: Ensign, I'm going to say this once and once only. If you ever question my orders again, you will be relieved of duty permanently. The next words I expect to hear from you are yes sir.
KIM: Yes, sir.

[Outside the shelter]
JANEWAY: I'm going to check the insect traps in beta four. What are you up to now?
CHAKOTAY: Making headboards.
JANEWAY: Headboards?
CHAKOTAY: I've noticed you sometimes sit up in your bed to read. I figured you might as well have a comfortable backrest.
JANEWAY: That's very thoughtful of you, Chakotay. You've done so many things to make our lives easier here. The cooking, for example. I hate to cook.
CHAKOTAY: But what I do makes you uncomfortable, doesn't it? Every time I do something that adds a personal touch to the shelter, you resist it.
JANEWAY: Sometimes it feels as though you've given up, that you're focused on making a home here instead of finding a cure that will let us leave.
CHAKOTAY: I can't sacrifice the present waiting for a future that may never happen. The reality of this situation is that we may never leave here. So, yes, I'm trying to make a home. Something that's more than a plain, gray box.
JANEWAY: Someday I may have to let go. But not today, okay? I've tried a new glucose bait in the traps. I have a feeling this might be the day I make a breakthrough.

[Woods]
JANEWAY: Hello? Chakotay?
JANEWAY: Hello again. Well, you certainly cover a lot of territory. Or are you following me? Do you understand me?
JANEWAY: There. Know what that is? That little insect just might be what gets me out of your backyard. What do you think of that, huh?
JANEWAY: What is it? What's happened to the sky? If you're suggesting I should get out of here, I agree.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn! Kathryn. Are you hurt?
JANEWAY: No. I couldn't keep my balance and carry the case.
CHAKOTAY: Give it to me.
JANEWAY: What's happening?
CHAKOTAY: It seems to be some kind of plasma storm. Our tricorders don't recognize it, but it sure packs a wallop!

[Ready room]
TUVOK: Come in.
KES: Do you have a moment?
TUVOK: Of course. Please sit down.
KES: I'd like to talk to you about my father.
TUVOK: Your father?
KES: He was a very wise man. More than anyone, he shaped the person I am. If it hadn't been for him I would have never questioned my people's beliefs. I would have never left our city. I would never have met all of you.
TUVOK: Then we owe him a debt. It is difficult to imagine this journey without you.
KES: When he died, I had just turned one year old. I didn't know how I'd get through the rest of my life without him. But then I started working with you and I didn't miss him so much anymore.
TUVOK: I am honored by the comparison.
KES: As Captain, the well-being of your crew is important to you.
TUVOK: Of course.
KES: Their emotional well-being as well as their physical safety?
TUVOK: I cannot allow myself to become hostage to their feelings.
KES: Tuvok, they are suffering because of this. Maybe you don't know what it's like.
TUVOK: If you are suggesting that I am not sensitive to the situation, nothing could be further from the truth. I have lost a valued friend. I am not immune to the effects of that loss.
KES: Then try to imagine what it's like for those of us who feel things deeply. A lot of the crew are on the Bridge hoping you'll talk to them.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: None of you can appreciate what it means to be in command of a ship until that responsibility rests squarely on your shoulders, as it does on mine. It has been suggested that I take an action which would require me to disobey an order, and knowingly put this crew into a life threatening situation. In general, I believe it demonstrates faulty leadership to be guided by the emotions of a distraught crew. However, as Captain, I must not ignore the sensibilities of those I command. We will contact the Vidiians. This is my decision and mine alone. You are all absolved of responsibility in the matter. I will accept any consequences which may ensue. Lieutenant, set a course for the Vidiian convoy. Mister Kim, let me know when we're within hailing range.

[Shelter]
JANEWAY: Oh, no!

[Outside the shelter]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Let's check outside. Maybe some of the insect traps are still intact.
JANEWAY: None of this is salvageable either. There's no way I can continue to do my research.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: Well, that's one way of letting go. Captain's log, Stardate 49694.2. We have contacted the Vidiian convoy with encouraging results. They have promised to communicate with Doctor Denara Pel and ask if she will help us.

[Bridge]
KIM: Sir, the Vidiians are hailing us.
TUVOK: On screen.
DENARA (screen): Hello, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: Dr. Pel. I didn't expect to see you this quickly.
DENARA (screen): When I heard what happened, I boarded the first ship I could. Tell me about this illness.
TUVOK: They were infected by a virus after being bitten by insects on a planet approximately seventy light years from here, in a system with a yellow dwarf star.
DENARA (screen): The third planet in a system of seven?
TUVOK: Yes.
DENARA (screen): I know it well. There's a particular kind of burrowing insect that carries the disease. Years ago, we developed an anti-viral agent to combat it.
TUVOK: Can we get some from you?
DENARA (screen): Of course. Our captain said we could rendezvous with you. He's transmitted the coordinates.
KIM: I have them, sir.
TUVOK: Thank you, Doctor. We appreciate your help.
DENARA (screen): I'm glad I can be of assistance.
TUVOK: Estimated time to the coordinates?
KIM: Approximately twenty hours.
TUVOK: Until then, I want a series of battle drills. We must be ready for whatever comes.

[Outside the shelter]
CHAKOTAY: I've been thinking. There's plenty of wood available here. I could probably add rooms to the shelter, give us a little more living space.
JANEWAY: How would you mill it?
CHAKOTAY: I could do a certain amount with a phaser, but I was actually thinking of logs.
JANEWAY: As in log cabin?
CHAKOTAY: I built a few of them when I was growing up. My father thought it was important that I learn how.
JANEWAY: When I was young, my parents took us on backpacking trips. They thought we should all keep a connection to our pioneer roots. I hated it. No bed, no replicator.
CHAKOTAY: No bathtub.
JANEWAY: No bathtub. I guess I was always a child of the twenty fourth century.
CHAKOTAY: Well, maybe those camping trips helped prepare you for life here.
JANEWAY: Oh, no. Life here is much better than that.
CHAKOTAY: I think that's the first time I've heard you say anything positive about being here.
JANEWAY: Well, hello there. I haven't seen you in a while. Where have you been?
CHAKOTAY: Do you expect him to answer you?
JANEWAY: Not really. I just sense intelligence in him, and I could swear he came to warn me about the plasma storm. Come here, fellow. Come on.
CHAKOTAY: I doubt that he can be domesticated, at least not very easily.
JANEWAY: Well, we have plenty of time. The rest of our lives.
CHAKOTAY: That's a long time. At least I hope so.
JANEWAY: Well, I can't give you orders anymore but I suggest we get back to work.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, aye, Captain.

[Shelter]
JANEWAY: I guess I'm not used to that kind of work. My knots are getting knots.
CHAKOTAY: Here, let me help.
JANEWAY: Oh, that feels good.
CHAKOTAY: I've had a lot of practice at this. My mother used to get sore necks all the time. I was the only one she'd trust not to make it worse.
JANEWAY: That's much better. Thank you. Well, I'm going to go to bed now. I'll see you in the morning.
CHAKOTAY: Sleep well, Kathryn.
JANEWAY: Yes. You too.

[Bridge]
KIM: Got something. Vidiian ship, bearing three two five mark five.
TUVOK: Hail them.
KIM: They aren't responding. Trying on alternating frequencies.
PARIS: I'm reading a second ship, one seven seven mark five.
KIM: I've got it. Now a third.
PARIS: They're surrounding us!
KIM: None of them are answering hails and their weapons are powered.
TUVOK: Red alert.

[Shelter]
JANEWAY: We have to talk about this.
CHAKOTAY: All right.
JANEWAY: I think we need to define some parameters about us.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure I can define parameters. But I can tell you a story, an ancient legend among my people. It's about an angry warrior who lived his life in conflict with the rest of his tribe, a man who couldn't find peace, even with the help of his spirit guide. For years, he struggled with his discontent. But the only satisfaction he ever got came when he was in battle. This made him a hero among his tribe, but the warrior still longed for peace within himself. One day he and his war party were captured by a neighboring tribe led by a woman warrior. She called on him to join her because her tribe was too small and weak to defend itself from all its enemies. The woman warrior was brave and beautiful and very wise. The angry warrior swore to himself that he would stay by her side, doing whatever he could to make her burden lighter. From that point on, her needs would come first. And in that way, the warrior began to know the true meaning of peace.
JANEWAY: Is that really an ancient legend?
CHAKOTAY: No. But that made it easier to say.

[Bridge]
KIM: Shields down to fifty eight percent.
TUVOK: Rearm the forward phaser array and fire at will.
KIM: Firing.
PARIS: Shields down to forty seven percent. Sir, there're just too many of them.
TUVOK: Load aft torpedo bays.
KIM: Torpedoes armed.
TUVOK: Fire number one. Report.
PARIS: They're still coming.
TUVOK: Fire number two. Tuvok to Engineering.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Torres here, sir.
TUVOK (voiceover): Listen carefully.

[Sickbay]
KES: She has a broken arm.
EMH: Set it with the osteogenic stimulator.
KES: I think there's someone on the monitor. This way.
EMH: Odd. Why wouldn't they just use the comm. line? I don't think this is coming from our ship.
DENARA (screen): Shmullus. Shmullus, can you hear me?
EMH: Denara!
DENARA (screen): Shmullus, I have to do this quickly. I'm on one of the Vidiian ships.
EMH: Do they know you're contacting me? Are you in any danger?
DENARA (screen): No. Everyone's too focused on the battle. Oh, Shmullus, I swear I didn't know they planned to attack. I thought we were on an errand of mercy.
EMH: I believe you.
DENARA (screen): I have the anti-viral serum here. If you can use your transporter to get it to your ship.
EMH: Our shields are up. We can't transport anything through them.
DENARA (screen): I don't know what else to suggest.
EMH: All right. I'll see what I can do.
KES: Maybe we can lower the shields long enough to transport the serum.
EMH: Sickbay to Bridge.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: This is Tuvok. We're rather busy here, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Doctor Pel is on one of the Vidiian ships.

[Bridge]
EMH (voiceover): If we can drop our shields briefly, we can beam aboard the serum.
TUVOK: Keep this comm. line open, Doctor. When you hear me order the shields down, you must complete a site-to-site transport yourself. We will be busy with the Vidiians.
EMH (voiceover): Understood.
TUVOK: Bridge to Engineering.

[Engineering]
TUVOK (voiceover): Report.
TORRES: We're ready to eject the antimatter container.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Stand by for my command. Here is the sequence of events. We will drop shields to transport the medicine. At the same moment, the antimatter container will be ejected. As soon as it's clear, Mister Kim will detonate it with a photon torpedo. Simultaneously, Mister Paris will jump to full impulse so that we will not take the brunt of the explosion. Is everyone clear on this? Timing is of the utmost importance. We won't get a second chance.
PARIS: Understood.
KIM: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
TORRES: We're ready down here.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Doctor?

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've set up to make the transport.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Stand ready then. Lower shields.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Initiating transport.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Ejecting the antimatter container now.

[Sickbay]
EMH: We've got it. Raise shields.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Mister Kim, Mister Paris, go.
KIM: Firing torpedo.
TUVOK: Report.
KIM: The Vidiian ships are all disabled, sir. They're not pursuing.
PARIS: Ready to go to warp, sir.
TUVOK: Set a course for the planet where we left the Captain and Commander Chakotay. Warp six.
PARIS: Aye, aye, sir.

[Outside the shelter]
CHAKOTAY: How are they coming?
JANEWAY: Very nicely. We should have vine-ripened Talaxian tomatoes in a couple of months, unless this planet has the equivalent of tomato bugs. Oh, they're awful.
CHAKOTAY: I would never have thought of you as a gardener.
JANEWAY: I grew up around farmers. My parents insisted we learn some basic gardening skills.
CHAKOTAY: Did you hate that as much as camping?
JANEWAY: Of course. Who wanted to muck around in the dirt when you could be studying quantum mechanics? But I find it very satisfying now, watching the seeds sprout and grow.
CHAKOTAY: If your tomatoes could spare you for a minute, I'd like your opinion on something in the house.
JANEWAY: Well, you've come to the right person. I always have an opinion.
CHAKOTAY: Really?

[Shelter]
CHAKOTAY: What do you think?
JANEWAY: A boat!
CHAKOTAY: You said you wanted to explore the river. I think I could build this.
JANEWAY: We could go on a camping trip.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure we could fit the bathtub in the boat.
JANEWAY: Well, that's all right. I'll have the river.
TUVOK (voiceover): Do you read me? Repeat.
JANEWAY: Do you hear that?
CHAKOTAY: Yes.
TUVOK (voiceover): To Captain Janeway, do you read me? This is Tuvok calling Captain Janeway and Commander Chakotay. Please respond.
JANEWAY: This is Janeway.
TUVOK (voiceover): Captain, it's good to hear your voice. We have news.
JANEWAY: What is it?
TUVOK (voiceover): We have medicine which we believe will effectively treat your condition. We plan to be in orbit within thirty hours.

[Outside the shelter]
CHAKOTAY: Ready?
JANEWAY: There you are. At least I get to say good bye. Feel free to use the house. Janeway to Voyager. Two to beam up.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Welcome back, Captain, Commander.
JANEWAY: The Doctor tells me you contacted the Vidiians after all.
TUVOK: I disobeyed your order, Captain. I am prepared to accept the consequences.
JANEWAY: If I didn't know you better, I'd say your decision was almost emotional. Thank you all. Well, we've lost time with all this. Let's see if we can make some of it up. Mister Paris, warp eight.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Commander, we'll need to review the ship's systems. I'll handle propulsion, environmental and communication. You'll be responsible for sensors, weapons and transporters.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain. I'll have a report to you by eighteen hundred hours.
JANEWAY: Check with phaser maintenance. See if they solved that problem with the pre-fire chamber temperature.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, ma'am. I'll see to it.

[Suder's quarters]
SUDER: Look. And you said they were incompatible.
TUVOK: You have confirmed the genetic structure?
SUDER: An entirely new species. I'm going to name it after you. The Tuvok Orchid.
TUVOK: That is an honor you should reserve for yourself, Mister Suder. You gave this species life.
SUDER: And you gave me life. All of this is because of you. Because of the meld.
TUVOK: The meld may have introduced you to my interest in floriculture, but you have embraced it entirely on your own, and discovered a unique talent within yourself in the process.
SUDER: I used to think the only talent I had was a talent for killing. Please. It's my way of saying thank you.
TUVOK: Very well. I accept.
SUDER: Tuvok, I want to do something for the ship. I'm not asking you to let me out of confinement. I accept my punishment. But if I could just, just contribute somehow.
TUVOK: What contribution do you feel you could make from your quarters?
SUDER: I was, I was thinking I might adapt some of the genetic engineering techniques I've developed for the orchids to make the airponic vegetable garden more productive.
TUVOK: Your attitude is admirable. I will discuss it with the Captain.
SUDER: Do you think she'll agree?
TUVOK: We'll see. Now, shall we begin? Notice your mind working, how it plans for the future, visits the past. Notice those thoughts and set them aside. Turn your attention to the white light that is your breath.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, we're being hailed on a subspace frequency.
JANEWAY: Are there ships in the vicinity?
PARIS: Negative. Tracking the source. Seems like it's coming from an unmanned buoy, coordinates one four zero mark three one seven.
KIM: It looks like a Kazon signal, Captain.
JANEWAY: Take us out of warp. Open a channel.
SESKA (screen): Chakotay, they're going to take your son. When Culluh saw the baby. I hear them coming. I don't have much time. When he saw the baby wasn't his. Please Chakotay, help us. Not for me, for your son.
CULLUH (voiceover): I told you to stay out of here.
SESKA (voiceover): No, please don't. Don't take him! I beg you. No! Please, no!
CULLUH (voiceover): I'm taking him!
SESKA (voiceover): No!

[Ready room]
CHAKOTAY: This is not my responsibility! She has no right to expect me to
JANEWAY: She knows you, Chakotay. She knew how you'd react when you saw your son in danger.
CHAKOTAY: I have a duty to this crew. I can't just leave and go looking for the child.
JANEWAY: And I'd never consider letting you go into a Kazon-Nistrim stronghold by yourself. If we do this, we do it together. That's something else Seska would know, too.
CHAKOTAY: Do you think it's a trap?
JANEWAY: Do I think Seska is capable of manipulating you and me with this? Oh, yes.
CHAKOTAY: On the other hand, it was time for her to deliver, and that baby we saw did look part Cardassian and part human.
JANEWAY: And knowing Culluh, I'm sure his pride was wounded when he realized the child wasn't his. It makes sense, Chakotay. It might all be true.
CHAKOTAY: Still, the safest thing would be to ignore this message and resume our course.
JANEWAY: I'm not going to resume our course just yet. I want you to think about it, Chakotay. This has to be your decision. If you choose to go after him, I know I speak for the entire crew, Starfleet and Maquis alike, when I say we'll stand behind you.

[Chakotay's quarters]
CHAKOTAY: A-koo-chee-moya. We are far from the sacred places of our grandfathers. We are far from the bones of my people. But I ask, on this day of sorrow and uncertainty, that the wisdom of my father find me and help me understand my dilemma. Speak to me, Father. Speak to me in my dreams.
KOLOPAK (voiceover): I've never seen you so troubled, Chakotay.

[Forest clearing]
CHAKOTAY: I have a son, Father.
KOLOPAK: A son, Chakotay? Oh. This is the reason for your despair. Was he born with two arms and two legs and a heart that beats?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, but
KOLOPAK: Then it's a cause for celebration. You will make a fine father. You needn't worry.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure I'm willing to be a father to him.
KOLOPAK: Hmm. Not willing?
CHAKOTAY: He was born without my consent. I had no part in it.
KOLOPAK: No part in it? Well, it's been a long time, so forgive me, but it seems that I had to play a part before your mother could conceive.
CHAKOTAY: My DNA was taken from me, used by a woman to impregnate herself without my permission.
KOLOPAK: I see. You're trying to decide whether you should accept the child in your heart.
CHAKOTAY: It's more than that.
KOLOPAK: But it must begin with that!
CHAKOTAY: How do you take a child into your heart who is forced upon you by a mother's deception?
KOLOPAK: He knows nothing of deception. He is innocent. Centuries ago, when the women of our tribe were raped by white conquerors, many gave birth to their children, and we did not reject them. They were accepted by the tribe. One was a direct ancestor of ours, Chakotay. His name was Ce Acatl. He became a great leader of our people. Here is a man who was given life without his mother's consent. Are you so different from her? And is your child so different from Ce Acatl?
CHAKOTAY: No.
KOLOPAK: He is your son, Chakotay, and he is a child of our people.

[Briefing room]
NEELIX: I've been in touch with the Talaxian mining colony on Prema Two. They're willing to come to our assistance if we run into trouble.
PARIS: That's good for about forty hours if we average warp two. After that we're out of their comm. range.
JANEWAY: Well, it's nice to know we have friends in the area. Thank you, Neelix.
TUVOK: I recommend a full diagnostic of our tactical array prior to the start of the mission, Captain.
JANEWAY: Agreed. But I want more from Tactical, Lieutenant. I want to anticipate a trap, and I want a few tricks up our sleeves if we need them.
KIM: Captain. I could program the deflector grid to make it look like we have help on the way. I'll show you what I mean. Excuse me, Doctor.
TORRES: Echo displacement.
KIM: Exactly. This is how we'd look to the enemy's sensors. If we generate multiple decoy images like these, the Kazon would think that ships are coming toward us. We could create as many as we want.
JANEWAY: That's a good start, Harry. It should distract them for a while. But what else can we do if we're eventually intercepted by a superior force?
EMH (voiceover): If you don't mind, I do have something to add.
EMH (screen): Thank you. Captain, I hesitate to offer suggestions in a field of endeavor that is not within my usual area of expertise.
JANEWAY: Please, Doctor, your suggestions on any subject are always welcome.
EMH (screen): Really? In that case, you may expect several more on a variety of matters in the near future. Right now may I suggest that we also consider attempting to create an actual holographic illusion of friendly ships?
TORRES: With all due respect, Doctor, we can't even figure out how to project you into this room. How are we supposed to create holographic ships in space?
EMH (screen): I would humbly submit that my program is far more sophisticated than your run of the mill hologram. In fact, projecting the illusion of a large, three-dimensional object has been a trick of magicians for centuries.
PARIS: We'll just do it with mirrors.
EMH (screen): Mister Paris's predictable attempts at humor notwithstanding, that is precisely what I would suggest. Installing holo-emitters along the hull with parabolic mirrors to enlarge the images as they are reflected into space.
KIM: We're going to use up a lot of our power reserves trying to pull it off.
CHAKOTAY: If these ships can fool the Kazon, it's worth it.
TUVOK: But can they? If the Kazon scan the holograms, they will immediately realize there are no life signs on board, no power signatures.
JANEWAY: Okay, so we can't fool them for long, but maybe it'll be long enough. It's an advantage, and we'll need every advantage we can get on this mission. Work with the Doctor on it, B'Elanna. Mister Kim. Cut power to all systems to minimum requirements. I don't want to show up on any Kazon long range scanners. Mister Paris, locate the warp signature from Culluh's ship and set a course to follow, warp two.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.
CHAKOTAY: Uh, excuse me, but there is one more thing. Thank you.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: It's not Culluh's ship. Looks more like a shuttle.
JANEWAY: Slow to impulse. Set an intercept course, Mister Paris. Have they indicated the nature of the distress?
KIM: Just a signal, Captain. No response to our hails.
JANEWAY: Let's go to Red alert.
KIM: Visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
KIM: Showing one life sign, adult Kazon male. He's in critical condition.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Sickbay. Prepare to receive an emergency transport.
KES (voiceover): Standing by, Captain.
JANEWAY: Commander. Mister Tuvok, you have the Bridge. Remain at Red alert.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.

[Sickbay]
KES: His hip is broken. Showing severe inflammation in the bronchial tissue.
EMH: It appears he inhaled noxious gasses vented in the damaged shuttle. Forty milligrams pulmozine.
CHAKOTAY: I know this man. His name's Teirna. He's one of Seska's aides. She had him work me over when I was on their ship.
TEIRNA: Seska is dead. Seska thought that she could manipulate the Maje. She bragged about it to me more than once. But this time, she was wrong. We had just launched the buoy with the message for you. Then they came for her. They cut her throat as Culluh watched. He ordered them to execute me, but I bribed one of the guards to get me to a shuttle. As soon as he saw it leaving, Culluh opened fire, destroyed my life support systems. He left me in space to die.
CHAKOTAY: What about the child?
TEIRNA: Taken to the Gema Four colony to be raised as a servant.
CHAKOTAY: We'll be needing your help getting to the Gema system.
TEIRNA: You're going after him? This ship, alone? I want nothing to do with this. I'm not taking you into Nistrim space.
CHAKOTAY: Under the circumstances, I'd say you don't have much of a choice.

[Doctor's office]
CHAKOTAY: What's his prognosis?
EMH: He'll be on his feet in a day or two but there's still a number of things we need to keep an eye on. He's had a nasty concussion, spinal cord trauma and a polycythemia, the cause of which I've yet to discover.
CHAKOTAY: Polycythemia?
EMH: An abnormal increase in the number of red blood cells.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like you to run an autonomic response analysis the next time I question him.
EMH: I'm afraid that won't help you determine if he's telling you the truth, Commander. An ARA depends on making a baseline comparison with the known response for a given species. Any Tom, Dick or Harry from the Alpha Quadrant, I could probably help you, but not with any of the new species of the Delta Quadrant. Regarding his veracity, it may help you to know that if we'd arrived an hour later, he would have been dead from his injuries.

[Engineering]
TORRES: The molecular variance residual on his shuttle is evidence of disruptor blasts and the signature is Kazon, so at least that part of his story seems to be true.
KIM: Plus, we confirmed nitrogen tetroxide fumes were in the cabin. If all this was part of a Kazon scheme, he had to be willing to breathe poison for hours before we got there.
CHAKOTAY: Have you found anything at all that would cast doubt on his story?
KIM: No.
CHAKOTAY: I still don't trust him.

[Briefing room]
TEIRNA: The trip would take six days at warp two.
NEELIX: Four days if you didn't take such a circuitous route, if we simply went across the Tenarus cluster.
TEIRNA: You would encounter the Nistrim fleet before a single day passed. Anyone who knows this part of space will tell you the same thing.
NEELIX: It so happens that I do know this part of space, my Kazon friend. I just wanted to see if you would tell us the truth. The route he suggests is safer, Captain.
TEIRNA: Of course, it's safer. I don't want to run into Culluh any more than you do.
CHAKOTAY: We might have more success avoiding him if you gave us the command codes for the Nistrim defense net.
TUVOK: Computer, display tactical overview of our current course.
TEIRNA: Enter code sequence four nine one one seven zero Culluh.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, adjust our course to avoid the defense net.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
TEIRNA: That is not an end to the danger. We are heading into an area of space populated by Kazon factions that are loyal to no one. They will attack without provocation.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Vessel approaching, coordinates three one four mark two one.
KIM: Signature is Kazon.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Configuration of the ship, Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: A small raider, Captain. It does not pose a significant threat. Nevertheless, it is powering up its weapon systems.
KIM: Shields are holding.
JANEWAY: Return fire.
TUVOK: The raider is breaking off its attack.
KIM: Minor damage to secondary command processors on deck twelve. EPS power supplies and isolinear controllers are offline. No casualties, though.
JANEWAY: Begin repairs, Mister Kim. Any other sign of Kazon ships, Lieutenant?
PARIS: Nothing on long range sensors. The raider is continuing to retreat. We should have a couple of hours to ourselves at least.
JANEWAY: Good. We can use them. Stand down Red alert.
PARIS: Captain, we're about to go beyond the comm. range of the Talaxian colony. Just thought you'd like to know.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Lieutenant. Maintain current course.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: I haven't forgotten, Mister Tuvok. Very well. This seems as good a time as any.

[Suder's quarters]
SUDER: Captain!
JANEWAY: Mister Suder.
SUDER: Please. Please come in. Won't you sit down? Excuse the mess. I wasn't expecting company. Can I get you some tea? Have you had lunch?
JANEWAY: Nothing, thank you. Lieutenant Tuvok has been telling me about your progress.
SUDER: Has he? Well, I'm, I'm very grateful to him, Captain. I still have a lot to learn of course, but he is an excellent tutor. When we first started our studies, I, I thought
TUVOK: The Captain's time is limited, Mister Suder.
SUDER: What? Oh. Of course.
TUVOK: I have explained your proposal to her.
JANEWAY: I'd like to know more about it, Mister Suder. What exactly would be involved?
SUDER: Yes, yes. Let me show you. I've actually had very encouraging results with a new gene splicing technique. I created a targeted restriction enzyme to facilitate the hybrid.
JANEWAY: And you feel you could experiment on our airponic crops here, in your quarters?
SUDER: Absolutely. I would make this an airponic laboratory, and all I would need are a few plants, certain chemicals and equipment.
JANEWAY: What sort of chemicals and equipment?
SUDER: Nothing dangerous. I, I prepared a list.
JANEWAY: It's an interesting proposition, Mister Suder. Let me discuss it with Kes and Lieutenant Tuvok, and I'll get back to you.
SUDER: I've already discussed it with Kes, and she is very interested.
JANEWAY: Good. Let me give it some thought.
SUDER: If you're worried you can't trust me, Captain
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok has assured me
SUDER: I only want to do something. Something for the ship.
JANEWAY: I understand, Mister Suder.
SUDER: Then what's the problem? Why won't you give me an answer?
TUVOK: Mister Suder.
SUDER: I just want to do something for the ship.
JANEWAY: Excuse me. Captain's log, supplemental. None of the four Kazon attacks have caused serious damage, but the starboard ventral has been hit each time, complicating repairs on the secondary command processors.

[Sickbay]
EMH: You are making an adequate recovery, Mister Teirna. The only matter that I simply cannot understand is this lingering polycythemia.
TEIRNA: I feel fine.
EMH: The medical record you gave us does not indicate any prior blood disorders. Might it be an inherited trait? Do you know if your parents ever
TEIRNA: My parents were killed in a Trabe attack shortly after I was born.
EMH: I see. Well, we'll need to monitor this condition for a while. It might be due to some chemical imbalance that our sensors aren't recognizing, possibly the result of the toxins you inhaled while on the shuttle. You're welcome.
CHAKOTAY: Feeling better?
TEIRNA: I'm sure I'll make a complete recovery just in time for the Gema colony's defense force to destroy us all.
CHAKOTAY: You're still not optimistic about our chances, are you?
TEIRNA: No.
CHAKOTAY: We've had no problem repelling the attacks so far.
TEIRNA: Attacks? When there's a real Nistrim attack, you'll know it.
CHAKOTAY: You still have pride in the Nistrim, don't you, Teirna? Even after what they did to you. I remember that pride in your eyes when you pounded me with your fists while I was tied to a chair. And I can see it in your eyes now, and that scares the hell out of me.
TEIRNA: You must scare easily, Federation.
CHAKOTAY: Tell me something, Teirna. Every Kazon attack seems to focus on our starboard ventral. Think that might be some kind of pattern?
TEIRNA: I wouldn't know.
CHAKOTAY: Because if it is, and you've been lying to us
EMH: Commander Chakotay! Not in my Sickbay. Please.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Firing phasers.
JANEWAY: Increase speed to one half impulse.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
KIM: They're coming at our starboard ventral again. Our shields there haven't been repaired yet. We're going to sustain more damage to the secondary command processors.
CHAKOTAY: Starboard ventral.
COMPUTER: Warning. Fires have been detected on decks twelve and fifteen, sections A four through C eighteen.
KIM: Control units are responding, Captain.
JANEWAY: Keep our port forequarter facing the line of attack, Mister Paris. Don't let them see our starboard ventral.
PARIS: I'm doing my best.
JANEWAY: Continuous fire, starboard phasers.
TUVOK: Acknowledged. They're withdrawing, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Stand down Red alert.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim.
KIM: Deck twelve is in shambles.
CHAKOTAY: We barely have time to begin repairs before they attack it again.
KIM: At least no one was hurt. The secondary command processors are non-functional. We'll have to rebuild them. I'd say we're looking at two days work if we're not attacked again.
CHAKOTAY: Why would these factions of Kazon, loyal to no one, all have the same agenda? And why would that agenda focus on a nonessential area of the ship?
JANEWAY: I don't know, but it feels like we're being pecked to death by ducks.
CHAKOTAY: We can't just stay on this course and wait to see what they have in store for us.
JANEWAY: I agree. It's time to re-examine our game plan. Mister Paris, reverse course.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Mister Teirna should be restricted to quarters on a secured deck until further notice.
TUVOK: Acknowledged.

[Suder's quarters]
NEELIX: Dinner time, Mister Suder. We have a fine leola root soup tonight.
SUDER: I'm not hungry.
NEELIX: Oh, Red alert. I'm afraid we have to go. I'll leave it here, just in case.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: How many do you count, Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: Eight large carrier vessels, confirmed Kazon signatures.
CHAKOTAY: Funny how they show up right after we reverse course.
JANEWAY: Time to intercept.
PARIS: Eight minutes. Their attack formation is a classic Cardassian echelon.
TUVOK: Curious. They have left us with an obvious avenue of escape, Captain.
JANEWAY: You're right, it is curious. Too curious for me. I don't know what's down that avenue of escape, Mister Tuvok, but I like to choose my own way. Set a course to intercept their lead ship.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Battle stations. Time to intercept.
PARIS: Three minutes, ten seconds, give or take a photon torpedo.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim.
KIM: Echo displacement ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: Send in the cavalry.
KIM: Activating deflector grid. They should be seeing the same thing on their scanners. Ten ships with Talaxian signatures.
TUVOK: Four of the Kazon ships are breaking formation.
PARIS: Confirmed. They're changing course.
CHAKOTAY: They took the bait.
JANEWAY: That only leaves four for us to handle.
CHAKOTAY: I like those odds better than eight to one.
PARIS: Two minutes to intercept.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Torres.

[Engineering]
TORRES: We're ready down here, Captain. All the new holo-projectors are on-line. We can create three Talaxian ships whenever you want to.
JANEWAY (voiceover): In about a minute and a half, B'Elanna. Stand by.
EMH (screen): Perhaps we should try one last systems check.
TORRES: You've already done it twice.
EMH (screen): I'm new at this. And we've never put such a demand on the holo-generators before. We should have boosted the power input.
TORRES: The defense systems are going to need all the auxiliary power we have, Doctor.
EMH (screen): We might try a preliminary
TORRES: Doctor!
EMH (screen): It'll work. Everything will be fine. I'm not worried.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Here we go.
TUVOK: They are randomly detonating torpedoes in our flight path.
KIM: Shields are holding. No damage.
JANEWAY: Hold your fire, Mister Tuvok. They may have torpedoes to waste. We don't.
PARIS: Thirty seconds to intercept.
JANEWAY: Take us out of warp.
PARIS: Engaging impulse engines.
JANEWAY: Power to all weapon systems. Stand by phasers.
TUVOK: Kazon vessel ten thousand kilometers off our starboard bow.
JANEWAY: Not yet.
TUVOK: Six thousand kilometers.
JANEWAY: Not yet.
TUVOK: Five thousand, three, two thousand.
JANEWAY: Now.
PARIS: Initiating evasive maneuvers, beta sequence.
TUVOK: Two more Kazon ships approaching.
KIM: Shields at ninety percent.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Torres. Initiate holo-programs.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Acknowledged. Energizing. That's two, and here's number three.

[Space]
EMH: Help! Man overboard!

[Doctor's office]
TORRES (voiceover): Doctor, are you there? Are you all right?
EMH: I told you we should have run one last systems check.

[Bridge]
KIM: Four Kazon ships dead ahead, but they're dividing their fire, Captain. The holograms are working.
JANEWAY: Ready photons.
TUVOK: Torpedoes loaded.
JANEWAY: Take us about, Mister Paris. We want a good angle on that fourth ship.
PARIS: Coming about, one four one mark two zero.
JANEWAY: Fire photon number one. Full starboard roll, evasive maneuvers lambda sequence. Fire.
KIM: Shields at eight five percent and holding. Minor damage reported deck fourteen.
JANEWAY: Come about to one four three mark zero six zero.
PARIS: Coming about.
JANEWAY: Ready photons, dispersal pattern sierra. Fire.
KIM: I'm reading a massive discharge on deck eight. We've lost a primary plasma conduit.
CHAKOTAY: Deck eight. Teirna's quarters.
TUVOK: Damage control teams to deck eight.
KIM: I'm showing power failures all over the ship.

[Engineering]
TORRES: We've lost power to the new holodeck grid. I can't restore it.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, are you all right?

[Engineering]
TORRES: Yes, Captain. But it looks like our reactant's injector controls were hit. Stand by.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: All three Kazon ships are concentrating their fire on us now, Captain.
KIM: Shields at seventy percent and falling. Starboard targeting scanners are offline.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive maneuvers, Mister Paris. Gamma sequence.
JANEWAY: Engineering, I need warp power.

[Engineering]
TORRES: We can't go to warp, Captain. The containment field generator has been damaged. I'm attempting to bypass.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Captain, if I can get a shuttle through the cross fire, I can go back and bring the Talaxians to help us.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, take the conn. Good luck, Lieutenant.
KIM: Shuttle is clear. So far, so good.
JANEWAY: Give him as much cover fire as you can, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
KIM: Voyager to Paris. Please respond. Tom, can you hear me? I've lost contact with the shuttle.
CHAKOTAY: Navigational array is offline.
TUVOK: We've lost power to forward phasers.
KIM: Shields at thirty percent. They're buckling.
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: The driver coil assembly has been destroyed. Impulse engines are offline.
TUVOK: We're being boarded through the shuttle bays, Captain. Phaser fights reported on decks five, six, seven.
CHAKOTAY: Intruder alert. Security to decks five through seven.
JANEWAY: Begin evacuation. Janeway to Computer. Initiate self-destruct sequence. Authorisation, Janeway pi one one zero. Set at ten minutes.
COMPUTER: Unable to initiate self-destruct sequence due to damage to secondary command processors.
KAZON: Stay where you are. Don't move.
JANEWAY: Hold your fire.
KAZON: Get down there! You! Move!
JANEWAY: I want to speak to Maje Culluh.
CULLUH: Easily arranged, Captain.
SESKA: Hello, everyone. What do you think of your son, Chakotay? He has your eyes, don't you think? Thank goodness he doesn't look too human. You all have such weak foreheads.
CHAKOTAY: May he grow up never knowing the contempt his father has for his mother.
CULLUH: I think I can assure you of that, Commander. I intend to take him for my own son. A man who would violate a woman under his own command
CHAKOTAY: What?
CULLUH: Doesn't deserve a son.
CHAKOTAY: Is that what she told you?
CULLUH: The boy will be trained as a Nistrim askara. Already he has helped us win the greatest battle in our history.
JANEWAY: Culluh, I'd like to discuss what happens now.
CULLUH: You'll be given no more respect than any Kazon woman, now that your ship and technology are mine. I will tell you when you may speak.
JANEWAY: Allow my crew to live. They were following my orders.
CULLUH: You're even worse than she is. What is it about the women from your quadrant? You know, she contradicts me in front of the senior askara? My own woman disputing her Maje in front of others. This is your fault. You've let your women get out of control.
SESKA: You know you have my deepest respect, Maje.
CULLUH: Why is it so dark in here? Somebody turn on the lights. Order the repair crews to begin work immediately. I want to leave for the Hanon system as soon as possible.
CHAKOTAY: What's in the Hanon system?
SESKA: Your new home. Take them to a cargo bay. Have the whole crew brought there. Check all quarters.
KAZON: Move.
SESKA: Goodbye, Chakotay. I'll take good care of our son. Oh, are you hungry, my brave little boy?

[Engineering]
KAZON: Move it!
CREWWOMAN: Oh, God. Stop it.

[Corridor]
KAZON: You! Come on, move! Keep moving.
NEELIX: This is outrageous!
KAZON: Shut up!

[Sickbay]
KAZON: You! Get up! Move! Get out!
EMH: Computer, activate Medical Holographic recall. Set for twelve hours. Mark.

[Deck 8]
KAZON: Check every room.
KAZON 2: In here.
KAZON: What's that?

[Bridge]
KAZON: The sensor repairs are complete, Maje. We have accounted for all but two of the Federation crew. There's also a shuttle missing.
CULLUH: Yes, we destroyed the shuttle as it was leaving.
SESKA: Has that been confirmed?
CULLUH: Fine. Have the other ships send out search parties. Confirm the shuttle was destroyed.
SESKA: And even if they find wreckage that seems to be from the shuttle, tell them to check for a recent warp trail.
CULLUH: Stand by to engage atmospheric thrusters. Prepare for landing. Activate the viewscreen.
CULLUH: Extend landing struts. Ready environmental controls.
CULLUH: Disengage engines. Secure thruster exhaust.

[Planet surface]
CULLUH: A fitting end for a people who would not share their technology. Let's see if you manage to survive without it.
JANEWAY: All right. Let's go. We've got to find water and shelter.
JANEWAY: We'll divide the crew into teams. Each of you will be a team leader. Make it clear to all your people that we expect to be rescued and our job is to survive until help arrives.
NEELIX: Do you really think it's likely that someone will find us, Captain?
JANEWAY: You're the morale officer, Neelix. You give me an answer.
NEELIX: Help is on the way!
KIM: Maybe Tom's shuttle got through.
JANEWAY: It's very important that this crew be given a sense of hope. That's our most important job right now. Our top priority is drinking water. Second is shelter to spend the night.
CHAKOTAY: A clearing with a protected side like the base of a cliff would be best.
JANEWAY: Food, fuel. Look for all the basic survival requirements.
CHAKOTAY: That includes anything that can be used as a tool or a weapon.
JANEWAY: We'll reconvene here in about two hours.
CHAKOTAY: All right, start dividing the crew. Looks like we don't have much daylight left. We'll spread the teams out in a standard alpha search pattern to see what we have to work with.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, Torres, you're with me. Alpha team here.
TUVOK: Beta team, this way.
KIM: Gamma team.
NEELIX: Delta team with me.
JANEWAY: The planet seems to be seismically active.
CHAKOTAY: At first glance, it's an M-class planet in a Pliocene stage of evolution.
JANEWAY: Comparable to Earth several million years ago.
TORRES: Captain. To Be Continued.....
CHAKOTAY: Let me help you.
WILDMAN: No, really, I'm all right.
CHAKOTAY: Don't push yourself. That goes for everyone. Perspiring wastes water.
JANEWAY: All right people, follow me. Let's take it slow. This is the most defensible location we've seen so far. The overhang should provide us with shelter, and the breeze should keep insects away. All right, let's make camp.

[Outside tunnel entrance]
HOGAN: Neelix, look at this. They almost look constructed. Maybe the people on this world are cave dwellers.
NEELIX: If that's true, I'd say this is a do-not-disturb sign, wouldn't you? They look humanoid. We might be able to use these as tools or weapons. Gather them up, Mister Hogan. Is there a problem?
HOGAN: No, sir. Do you want all of them?
NEELIX: Waste nothing. That's one of the first rules of survival.
CREWWOMAN: Neelix, over here!
NEELIX: Hogan!

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: Computer, repeat stabilizer diagnostic.
COMPUTER: Damage has been detected in the stabilizer acceleration sensors.
PARIS: I just repaired the acceleration sensors.
COMPUTER: Warning. Vessel approaching on intercept course.
PARIS: Signature?
COMPUTER: Kazon patrol vessel.
PARIS: Damn it! I don't have time for this.
PARIS: I don't have time for this! Computer, all stop. Engage impulse.
PARIS: I told you, I don't have time for this.

[Camp]
CHAKOTAY: That's all that's left of Hogan's uniform, Captain. We didn't find anything else.
NEELIX: This is my fault. If I hadn't told Hogan to pick up these bones.
KES: You shouldn't blame yourself, Neelix.
JANEWAY: Stop it. There's no time to worry about blame. Hogan was a fine officer and a good man. And our job is to make sure his death is the last one for a long time! I will not let this planet destroy my crew. Kes, see to it that everyone knows the tunnels are off-limits. I want clear safety protocols established. Mister Tuvok, we need weapons.
TUVOK: I have already begun to design some rudimentary devices, Captain.
JANEWAY: What's our food and water status?
CHAKOTAY: I know it sounds grisly, but I can make solar stills with the material from this uniform. We could have water tomorrow.
JANEWAY: Do it.
NEELIX: Captain, none of the search teams were able to find plants of any nutritional value.
JANEWAY: Then tell the crew to start turning over rocks.
JANEWAY: If anyone balks at eating these, tell them it's an order from their captain. They may be the difference between life and death.

[Sickbay]
SESKA: Activate Emergency Medical Holographic Program.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
SESKA: Hello, Doctor. Remember me?
EMH: How could I forget such an intriguing medical mystery? A Bajoran crewman with a Cardassian physiology. How are you, Seska? I see we have a new passenger.
SESKA: Doctor, I have to inform you about a change of command. I'm curious how you'll react. The Kazon-Nistrim have taken Voyager.
EMH: How interesting.
SESKA: Does your program have any problem with that?
EMH: One humanoid is pretty much the same as another from a holographic point of view. I'm programmed to provide medical care to anyone who needs it.
SESKA: Tell me, is it within your program's capabilities to lie or be deceptive?
EMH: I've learned that a bedside manner occasionally requires me to, how should I put it, soft-pedal the truth. But bald-faced lying, calculated deceit? I don't have much experience with that sort of thing. But my program is adaptive. If you really need me to be deceptive, I'm sure I could learn.
SESKA: It's not exactly what I meant. I think we'll keep you just as you are.
EMH: As you wish. Your baby's in good health.
SESKA: Ah, you don't know how primitive Kazon medicine is. I'm sure Chakotay would be glad to know you're looking after his son.
EMH: Chakotay's son? That isn't Chakotay's son.
SESKA: But you're wrong, Doctor. I impregnated myself with his DNA.
EMH: That may have been your intention, but it certainly wasn't the result. Here. See for yourself.
EMH: Your child has Cardassian DNA strands here and Kazon DNA here. Human DNA has a significantly different nucleotide sequence.
SESKA: But I was so certain. He, he looks
EMH: He's the first offspring of a Cardassian and a Kazon. We have no frame of reference by which to judge his initial appearance. Perhaps he will develop more Kazon features as he matures.
SESKA: Maje Culluh will be so pleased. End Medical Holographic Program.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Medical Log, Stardate 50032.7. I have determined that Commander Chakotay is not the father of Seska's child. I only wish there was some way to inform him. What am I supposed to do? Lead a revolt with a gang from Sandrine's? Conjure up holograms of Nathan Hale and Che Guevara? I'm a doctor, not a counterinsurgent. Get hold of yourself. You're not just a hologram. You're a Starfleet hologram. Maybe, maybe I could access a tactical database, teach myself guerrilla warfare. But that would take time. Computer, what is the crew complement?
COMPUTER: There are eighty nine Kazon
EMH: Eighty nine.
COMPUTER: And one Betazoid on board.
EMH: What did you say? Betazoid?
COMPUTER: There is one Betazoid on board.
EMH: Where? Who?
COMPUTER: Please restate a single question.
EMH: Who is it?
COMPUTER: Crewman Lon Suder.
EMH: Suder. Where is he?
COMPUTER: Between decks eight and nine.
EMH: Doctor to Suder.

[Jefferies tube]
SUDER: Yes! Yes, Doctor. I hear you.
EMH (voiceover): The ship has been taken over by the Kazon-Nistrim.
SUDER: I know. I've been hiding.
EMH (voiceover): Can you make it to Sickbay?
SUDER: I think so.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Computer, emergency medical priority one one four. Delete the signature of Mister Suder's comm. badge from the system. There is to be no record of his being on board.

[Camp]
JANEWAY: Huddle together in groups. That'll preserve body heat. This is no time to be shy. Tuvok.
KIM: Captain. How do you like your eggs?
TORRES: We found a nest about two kilometers away.
KIM: And that's not all. Cucumbers, or something like them. There are vines full of them two hours from here.
JANEWAY: Take them to Neelix and tell him to hold off on the beetle stew, at least for the time being. How's she doing, Samantha?
WILDMAN: I don't know, Captain. She seems tired, listless.
JANEWAY: Maybe she's just adjusting to the environment. After all, she was born in space. Make sure you stay close to the fire, as soon as we have one.
CHAKOTAY: Trapped on a barren planet and you're stuck with the only Indian in the universe who can't start a fire by rubbing two sticks together. I was never good at this as a child and I'm still not good at it.
JANEWAY: Don't be so hard on yourself. None of the others have had any success with it either. Must be the wood.
CHAKOTAY: We need kindling of some sort.
JANEWAY: What?
CHAKOTAY: Something my father once told me about starting a fire.
KIM: There you go.
NEELIX: If we put some bigger rocks around the fire, they'll reflect the heat better. I'm going to go get some.

[Outside the camp]
KES: Neelix. You shouldn't go too far away from camp.

[Shuttlecraft]
PAXIM (screen): Voyager's been taken by the Kazon-Nistrim. They're flooding every subspace frequency with the news.
PARIS: Is there any word on the crew?
PAXIM (screen): I'm afraid not.
PARIS: If you can help me with repairs, we can be on our way in a few hours.
PAXIM (screen): Lieutenant, our ships are no match for Voyager and your shuttlecraft can hardly be expected
PARIS: Commander Paxim, my people are counting on you. Look, no one knows Voyager like I do. I know every vulnerability, every blind spot. Don't worry. I have a plan.
PAXIM (screen): Very well. We'll rendezvous in an hour. Paxim out.
PARIS: One hour. I should be able to come up with some kind of plan in one hour.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I was beginning to think you'd got lost.
SUDER: I'm sorry. They're still repairing the ship. I had to be careful.
EMH: We have no time to waste. According to the computer, we're at warp. We've got to figure out some way to slow the ship down before we get too far from the crew. That would seem to be our first priority. And then we have to get some weapons. Mister Suder, are you listening to me?
SUDER: Yes.
EMH: Oh. I see. Perhaps you consider this an opportunity.
SUDER: Opportunity?
EMH: To obtain your freedom from confinement. How foolish of me to think you would want to help.
SUDER: You're wrong. I do want to help.
EMH: Then what?
SUDER: I'm going to have to kill some of them.
EMH: It is possible. Violence might be required to retake the ship.
SUDER: I've worked so, so hard over the last few months to control the violent feelings. I'm almost at peace with myself. I mean, I see the day coming when I could be.
EMH: Mister Suder. If Lieutenant Tuvok were here, I know he would tell you there are times when violence is required to defend yourself, to defend your ship, to defend your crew.
SUDER: Yes, there is a logical use for violence for everyone else. With me, once it begins
EMH: We must do this together, Mister Suder. If you don't trust yourself yet, then trust me. I will help you anyway I can. One hologram and one sociopath may not be much of a match for the Kazon, but we'll have to do.

[Camp]
CHAKOTAY: There are signs of a struggle near the edge of camp. I found alien tracks.
JANEWAY: We can't wait until morning to go after them.
CHAKOTAY: Well, I'm better at tracking than starting fires.
TUVOK: I've completed a few weapons that might be appropriate, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: This is thoughtful of you Tuvok, but my tribe never used bows and arrows, and I've never even shot one.
TUVOK: This is mine. I taught archery science for several years at the Vulcan Institute of Defensive Arts.
JANEWAY: Take as many crew members as you need.

[Planet surface]
NATIVE: Toos. Feelhi hiseri.
NEELIX: Now, see here. You just keep your hands off her!
NATIVE 1: Toluhee.
NATIVE 2: Kahee! Kahee! Feelhi.
NATIVE 1: Sho! Kumi, kumi sho.
NEELIX: Commander. Thank goodness.
CHAKOTAY: Are you all right?
KES: They haven't hurt us.
CHAKOTAY: Have you been able to tell if they have a leader?
KES: I'd say it's the one with the claw.
NEELIX: I agree. The other two seem to be trying to figure out what to make of us. In a manner of speaking. Not in a culinary sense, I hope.
CHAKOTAY: Listen to the sound of my voice, and you'll know that I mean you no harm. I come without weapons. But I must have my people back.
CHIEF: Lum, usetum hator.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, but she should stay with you. I must take them with me.
NATIVE 1: Kodor, kodihor, kotiheer!
NEELIX: Stand? Certainly. I'll be happy to stand. What, 0ver here? Fine, fine, fine, fine.
CHIEF: Jimugan neesensak.
NEELIX: What? No. No. No! That is unacceptable!
CHAKOTAY: Kes, stand up slowly and walk away with us.
CHAKOTAY: We have to go now.
CHAKOTAY: Just keep walking. Don't look back.
CHIEF: Tahee! Tahee!

[Outside a tunnel]
CHAKOTAY: In there!
NEELIX: Commander, that looks just like the tunnel where Hogan
CHAKOTAY: I know. If they know it too, they won't follow us in. Come on!

[Engineering]
CULLUH: You'd think this crew had never seen a warp drive before.
SESKA: No one tried to adjust the antimatter flow today?
KAZON ENGINEER: No one.
CULLUH: If you're lying, I'll have your head.
KAZON ENGINEER: I swear it, Maje.
SESKA: There should have been some warning before the antimatter injector froze. A drop in core temperature, a magnetic constriction alarm, something. He's either lying, or
CULLUH: Or what?
SESKA: Computer, run a level one scan for intruders.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Internal scanner relays have been damaged.
CULLUH: I thought you said all repairs were complete.
KAZON ENGINEER: They were. I thought they were.

[Doctor's office]
SESKA (screen): I want a deck by deck search of all Jeffries tubes and conduits. Use the Federation tricorders.
SUDER: Do you have a portable thoron generator?
EMH: Yes, of course. We use it to treat radiation burns.
SUDER: It's an old Maquis trick. Thoron particles neutralize tricorder sensors.
EMH: Mister Suder, we need some weapons if we're going to retake the ship.

[Camp]
WILDMAN: She has a fever. I don't know what to do.
JANEWAY: Let me get her some water.

[Outside camp]
JANEWAY: The baby needs water.
KIM: Those tremors seem to be getting stronger.
JANEWAY: Chakotay's team should have been back by now. We'd better look for them before it gets too hot. Get a few people together. I'll join you in a second.

[Tunnel]
CHAKOTAY: Come on. We have to see if there's another way out of here.
KES: I feel a breeze.
NEELIX: It's coming from this way.

[Outside the tunnel]
KIM: Do you really think Commander Chakotay would go in there after what happened to Hogan?
JANEWAY: He may have had no other choice.
TORRES: How do we get them away from the tunnels?
KIM: A couple of phaser blasts would do the trick.
JANEWAY: Who are the fastest runners here?
TORRES: I was on the decathlon team before I quit the Academy. The track and field coach was furious with me.
JANEWAY: Anyone else here who can run?
AYALA: Yeah.
JANEWAY: Okay. You three will be the sprint team. Once you reach our camp, you should be safe.

[Tunnel]
CHAKOTAY: Which way do you like, Tuvok?
TUVOK: From a tactical point of view, the options are not encouraging. However, moving past the creature might lead us to an exit.
CHAKOTAY: All right, let's take it slow. Single file.

[Outside the tunnel]
TORRES: Hey! Up here!
AYALA: Come on!
TORRES: Up here. You want us? You want us? Come and get us! Come on. Come and get us.
JANEWAY: Pull this.

[Cave]
KES: Look out!

[Outside the tunnel]
JANEWAY: Chakotay! Tuvok!

[Cave]
KIM (voiceover): The tunnel is clear!
CHAKOTAY: Go!

[Tunnel]
CHAKOTAY: Everybody out!

[Outside the tunnel]
JANEWAY: Move. Let's go. Go! Go! Go, go!

[Tunnel]
TUVOK: Chakotay, your spear.
CHAKOTAY: Go, go, go!

[Outside the tunnel]
JANEWAY: Come on, come on. Go!
CHAKOTAY: Come on.

[Jefferies Tube]
ENGINEER: I don't understand it. Thoron particles are leaking into the conduits from somewhere. I can't get any other readings. Check the next level.
KAZON CREWMAN: Yes, sir.

[Doctor's office]
COMPUTER: Incoming subspace message on the Emergency Medical Holographic channel.
EMH: On the emergency channel?
PARIS (screen): Doc, I hope you're receiving this because if you're not, I'm a dead duck. I'm piggybacking this message on a fake Kazon signal I'm sending to the Bridge. I'm betting they won't be monitoring your Emergency Medical channel. I'm bringing help, but you have to do something for us. When the attack begins, I need you to get the computer to block the discharge from the backup phaser power couplings. You got that? The backup couplings. I'm taking out the primary couplings myself, but I need those backups to overload when they switch to them. Don't do anything until the attack begins or they might notice. That's it for now. I'll be seeing you soon. I hope.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Good news. Help is on the way. Mister Paris apparently was able to. Oh.
SUDER: I didn't know what to do. I didn't think I should leave him there where they could find him.
EMH: Of course. You were smart to bring him here. We can put him in a stasis drawer.
SUDER: Well, we have weapons now.
EMH: You did what was necessary, Mister Suder. Five cc's of improvaline will help you calm down.
SUDER: No! No drugs. I just need to breathe. See the light that is my breath.

[Ready room]
CULLUH: We've just received a message from our patrol ship. They have tracked down the shuttle from Voyager and destroyed it.
SESKA: Were two people on board?
CULLUH: They didn't say.
SESKA: Two people were unaccounted for when we captured the crew. Have they found any evidence of an intruder on board?
CULLUH: No. But the search has been slowed down by a thoron particle leak.
SESKA: Thoron particles? That's an old Maquis trick to fool tricorders.

[Outside the camp]
TUVOK: After what transpired, I believe we have to prepare ourselves for an alien attack, Captain. Our priority should be to increase the weapons arsenal and to begin training everyone in the use of these weapons.
JANEWAY: I don't like the sound of that, Lieutenant. We may have to coexist with these aliens a long time.
TUVOK: Nevertheless
CHAKOTAY: I agree with the Captain. We have to find a way to share this world with them.
TUVOK: You may find nobility in the savage, Commander, but he is only interested in killing you.
CHAKOTAY: I don't believe that.
KES: Captain! The baby is very sick. She's having trouble breathing. She has a high fever. There's nothing more I can do for her.
KIM: Captain!
JANEWAY: I think our top priority has just been dictated. Break camp. We've got to get out of here before it blows.

[Sickbay]
SESKA: Why are you still here? I shut down your program when I left.
EMH: You must be mistaken.
SESKA: Where's your thoron generator?
EMH: It was damaged on a recent away mission and left behind.
SESKA: Who else from Voyager is on board?
EMH: I wouldn't know.
SESKA: I don't believe you.
EMH: There are several dozen crewmen on board actually, and they have been working round the clock to sabotage your vessel.
SESKA: That's a lie. At most, there is one, and I believe it is a Maquis crewman.
EMH: Yes. Of course, you're right. It is one of the Maquis.
SESKA: I won't play these games with a trick of light.
EMH: Sticks and stones won't break my bones, so you can imagine how I feel about being called names.
SESKA: I don't believe you could have sabotaged this ship alone.
EMH: Very well. Since you are obviously about to disable my program anyway, let me take the credit I deserve. I did sabotage the ship all by myself, with the computer's help, of course. As a matter of fact, one of your crewman came in unexpectedly and caught me in the act.

[Stasis room]
SESKA: You killed him?
EMH: He left me no choice.
SESKA: Why create a thoron leak if you're not hiding someone?
EMH: I would think it's obvious. To make you believe I was hiding someone. I've had your people crawling through the bowels of this ship for hours looking for an intruder.
SESKA: You're more talented in the art of deception than you led me to believe.
EMH: I was inspired by the presence of a master.

[Sickbay]
SESKA: Computer, access Culluh Zero One. Disregard all voice commands from Starfleet personnel. Security lockout.
SESKA: Seska to Bridge. What's going on?
KAZON CREWMAN (voiceover): A couple of Talaxian ships have fired on us. Nothing to worry about.
SESKA: Goodbye, Doctor. I'd rather not take any more chances. (Seska shoots at his hologram control panel, and he disappears.
SUDER: Doctor? Activate Emergency Medical Holographic Program.
COMPUTER: Unable to respond. All Starfleet voice access has been canceled.

[Doctor's office]
EMH (screen): Mister Suder. If you are hearing this, you have just unsuccessfully attempted to access the Emergency Medical Program. I have programmed this message to play in the event that I have been disabled. This means, of course, that the fate of Voyager now depends solely on you. I can imagine how you must feel at this moment. I want you to know, you have my full confidence. You have already shown great courage and dedication to your crew. I have left an additional message for Captain Janeway and Lieutenant Tuvok noting your heroism, in case I am irretrievable. You know what you have to do and when to do it, and I know with our fate in your hands, we will prevail. Good luck, Mister Suder.

[Bridge]
ENGINEER: The Talaxians are retreating toward the nebula.
CULLUH: We'll teach them the price for attacking the Nistrim. Lay in a pursuit course.

[Shuttlecraft]
PAXIM (voiceover): Commander Paxim to Paris.
PARIS: Go ahead.
PAXIM (voiceover): They're following us as planned. We're bringing them to you.
PARIS: Acknowledged. Ready and waiting. I just hope you are too, Doc.

[Planet surface]
JANEWAY: This way.
FEMALE: Makee nah!
CHAKOTAY: It's okay.
CHIEF: Tal kada.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: Here we go.

[Bridge]
CULLUH: What's happening?
KAZON ENGINEER: Our phaser power couplings are under attack.
SESKA: From where?
KAZON ENGINEER: I don't see anyone. I'm not picking up anything on the scanners. Shields are buckling.
CULLUH: Take evasive action.
KAZON ENGINEER: I have it on the scanners. It's a Federation shuttlecraft.
CULLUH: Lock phasers. Destroy it.
KAZON ENGINEER: Primary phaser power is down.
SESKA: Switch to backup systems.
KAZON ENGINEER: Confirmed. Phasers are locked on.
CULLUH: Fire!
KAZON ENGINEER: I don't understand. I'm showing an overload.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: Yes, Doc, yes! Paris to Commander Paxim. Stand by. I'm going to start transporting your people to Voyager.
PAXIM (voiceover): Standing by.

[Bridge]
CULLUH: Seska! Seska!

[Ready room]
CULLUH: Seska? No.
KAZON CREWMAN (voiceover): Engineering to Maje Culluh. We're being boarded.
CULLUH: Abandon ship.

[Bridge]
PARIS: I'm sealing off the Bridge manually. I've got to get the computer back online. All Starfleet voice access has been disabled.
PAXIM: I'm reading a Kazon shuttle leaving the ship. There are also escape pods being launched.
PARIS: Forget them. We have more important things to do.

[Planet surface]
KES: She's breathing better, isn't she?
CHIEF: Sad katonk.
NATIVE: Anuk! Anuk! Anuk! Anuk!

[Bridge]
PARIS: Welcome back, Captain.
JANEWAY: Well done, Lieutenant.
PARIS: I had a lot of help. The Talaxians, the Doc, Mister Suder.
KIM: Suder? We thought he was killed during the initial attack.
PARIS: No, he and the Doctor sabotaged the ship. Suder disabled the phasers before they killed him.

[Sickbay]
EMH: You would have been proud of him, Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: I offer you a Vulcan prayer, Mister Suder. May your death bring you the peace you never found in life.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, is this ship capable of sustained flight?
KIM: All propulsion and navigational systems are functioning within normal parameters, Captain.
JANEWAY: Good. Take us away from our new home and set a course for the old one, Mister Paris. Warp eight.
PARIS: Heading four one, mark seven seven. Destination, Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: Engage.

[Mess Hall]
NEELIX: Anthraxic citrus peel, orange juice with just a hint of papalla seed extract. An experimental blend.
TUVOK: The success rate of your culinary experiments has not been high.
NEELIX: Ensign Golwat tried some yesterday, and she thought it was delicious. In fact, she had a second glass, and she never has seconds.
TUVOK: Ensign Golwat is Bolian. Her tongue has a cartilaginous lining. It would protect her against even the most corrosive acid.
NEELIX: All I ask is that you try it, Mister Vulcan. (Tuvok sniffs and sips.)
TUVOK: Impressive.
NEELIX: Ah! I'll start squeezing that second glass. Breakfast is coming right up. Porakan eggs.
TUVOK: Porakan?
NEELIX: The most flavorful eggs in the sector. Scrambled with a little dill weed, a touch of rengazo, a galactic favorite. Now, these eggs were not easy to prepare. After we picked them up on Porakas Four, I had to sterilize them in a cryostatic chamber for three days. Then each and every one had to be parboiled
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, I would prefer not to hear the life history of my breakfast.
NEELIX: On Talax it's a tradition to share the history of a meal before you begin eating. It's a way of enhancing the culinary experience. My mother was brilliant. She could make every course, every garnish come alive by making it a character in a story. My favorite was the one about the crustacean who
TUVOK: What happened?
NEELIX: Er, some sort of power overload. I'm afraid it decimated your breakfast. This is what my mother would call a tragic ending.
TUVOK: Engineering has been making adjustments to the plasma conduits to accommodate a new energy source. It may have created a thermal surge in the galley systems.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Tuvok. Please report to the bridge. Mister Neelix, I'd like you to join us as well.
NEELIX: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50126.4. We have detected a gaseous anomaly that contains sirillium, a highly combustible and versatile energy source. We've altered course to investigate.

[Bridge]
NEELIX: Sirillium?
JANEWAY: Yes, and possibly large amounts of it. If so, we're going to need to stockpile as much as we can. I'd like to convert storage bay three into a containment chamber.
NEELIX: My pantry.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, Neelix. You're going to have to make other arrangements.
NEELIX: Of course, Captain. You know, if I injected sirillium into my thermal array, it might improve cooking time.
TORRES: Yes, and blow up half your kitchen in the process. Sirillium is far more useful as a warp plasma catalyst.
TUVOK: The gas can also be used to boost deflector shield efficiency.
CHAKOTAY: The vultures are circling.
JANEWAY: Well, there's certainly no shortage of good ideas. Have all department heads submit proposals for sirillium usage.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: The anomaly is within visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
JANEWAY: Analysis, Mister Kim.
KIM: It's a class seventeen nebula. I'm detecting standard amounts of hydrogen, and helium, and seven thousand parts per million of sirillium.
TORRES: Captain, I recommend we use the Bussard collectors to gather the sirillium. They'll cut through that nebula like ice cream scoops.
PARIS: I'm picking up a lot of plasmatic turbulence in there. It might be a bumpy ride.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, can you modify the shields to compensate?
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
CHAKOTAY: Are you all right, Lieutenant?
TUVOK: I don't know. I'm experiencing dizziness and disorientation. Permission to go to sickbay.
JANEWAY: Granted.

[Turbolift]
TUVOK: Deck five.
GIRL (voiceover): Help me! Tuvok!

[Precipice]
GIRL: Help me, Tuvok! Please don't let go! Tuvok! Don't let me fall!
GIRL: No!

[Sickbay]
TUVOK: I was holding a young girl by the hand, tying to prevent her from falling from a precipice. I was unable to keep my grip, and she fell to her death. And there is more. I had an emotional response anxiety, fear. An almost irrational anger at myself for letting her fall.
KES: When did that happen?
TUVOK: It never happened. The girl was unfamiliar, and I've never been in that situation. It was me as a child, and it did seem like a memory, but I don't recall the incident.
EMH: Well, it was definitely a traumatic episode. Your heart rate accelerated to three hundred beats per minute. Your adrenaline levels rose by one hundred thirteen percent and your neuroelectrical readings nearly jumped off the scale. If you were human, I'd say you had a severe panic attack.
TUVOK: I am not human.
EMH: No kidding. I don't know what happened to you, but there can be any number of explanations. Hallucination, telepathic communication from another race, repressed memory, momentary contact with a parallel reality. Take your pick. The universe is such a strange place.
JANEWAY: I'll have Mister Kim examine the sensor logs. Maybe our proximity to the nebula is affecting you somehow.
EMH: In the meantime, Lieutenant, you are free to go. All of your vital signs have returned to normal, and I don't see any residual systemic damage. But I want you to wear this neurocortical monitor. In case you have another episode, it'll record a complete encephalographic profile and alert sickbay at the same time.
TUVOK: A wise precaution, Doctor. Thank you.

[Tuvok's quarters]
TUVOK: Structure, logic, function, control. A structure cannot stand without a foundation. Logic is the foundation of function. Function is the essence of control. I am in control. I am in control.
TUVOK: Enter. Kes. What is it?
KES: The doctor wanted me to adjust your neurocortical monitor to pick up additional peptide readings. I can come back later if this is a bad time.
TUVOK: No. You may proceed.
KES: What are you working on?
TUVOK: It is called a keethara.
KES: Keethara. What does that mean?
TUVOK: The approximate translation is structure of harmony. It is used as a meditational aid. Building it requires precise balance and spatial acuity. It helps to focus thought and refine mental control.
KES: At the moment, it doesn't look very harmonious.
TUVOK: No, it does not.
KES: I'm curious. What does a keethara look like when it's done?
TUVOK: The form is not predefined. It is a reflection of the builder's state of mind. Thus, it is different each time.
KES: I'd like to see it when it's finished. Well, good night.
TUVOK: Kes.
KES: It's all right. I understand.
TUVOK: Structure, logic, function, control. A structure cannot stand without a foundation. Logic is the foundation of function. Function is the essence of control. I am in control. I am in control.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: So how are you feeling this morning?
TUVOK: If you are referring to yesterday's incident, I haven't experienced any further problems. I am fit for duty.
CHAKOTAY: I didn't ask because I'm concerned about your ability to perform, I'm concerned about you.
TUVOK: There is no need for concern.
CHAKOTAY: Sorry I asked.
TUVOK: My apologies, Commander. I am distracted. I spent fourteen hours last night in deep meditation, trying to determine the source of my aberrant behavior. I could not.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you should try to forget about it for a while. I've found that when you don't think about a problem, sometimes the solution comes to you.

[Engineering]
TUVOK: It is difficult to forget when you're wearing a neurocortical monitor on your parietal bone.
CHAKOTAY: Good point. Mister Kim?
KIM: I checked all the sensor logs. There's no sign of anything emanating from the nebula that would have affected Tuvok or Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Anything unusual about the nebula itself?
KIM: No, it's a standard class seventeen.
TUVOK: I suggest we conduct a tachyon sweep of the nebula. It would reveal the presence of any cloaked ships.
CHAKOTAY: Cloaked ships?
TUVOK: Yes. We should be extremely cautious this close to Klingon space.
TORRES: Tuvok, the Klingon Empire is on the other side of the galaxy.
TUVOK: Yes. Yes, you are right, of course. I'm uncertain why I would make such an obvious error.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you should go back to Sickbay. Tuvok?
GIRL: Help me, Tuvok! Please don't let go! No!

[Sickbay]
EMH: I think we may be dealing with a repressed memory. The memory engrams in the dorsal region of the hippocampus are being disrupted. It's causing physical damage to the surrounding tissue. In Vulcan medicine, this is known as t'lokan schism. It means that the subject is inhibiting a traumatic memory, which is beginning to resurface.
JANEWAY: And that's causing brain damage?
EMH: Strange, I know. In human subjects, repressed memories are nothing more than psychological traumas which can be dealt with, with standard therapeutic techniques. But in Vulcans, there is a physical reaction to the battle between the conscious and the unconscious. In extreme cases, the mind of the patient can literally lobotomise itself.
JANEWAY: What's the treatment?
EMH: There is no medical treatment for this condition. Vulcan psychocognitive research suggests that the patient initiate a mind-meld with a family member, and the two of them attempt to bring the repressed memory into the conscious mind.
JANEWAY: I'm the closest thing Tuvok has to a family member on this ship.
EMH: That's why I've asked you to come. He has a request to make of you.
TUVOK: Did the doctor explain the situation to you?
JANEWAY: Yes. Tuvok, are you sure it's the right thing to do?
TUVOK: I don't know how else to proceed. The doctor tells me that this is a memory. And yet, no matter how hard I try, I cannot remember. If the doctor is correct, if this is an experience I pushed into my unconscious mind, it could be very dangerous to me, even life-threatening. I realize it's asking a great deal of you, Captain, and I did consider turning to one of the Vulcans on the ship, but this meld would be more intimate than most. A family member is normally chosen because of the implicit trust that usually exists. On this ship, I trust you more than anyone else.
JANEWAY: Whatever happens, I'll be there for you, Tuvok. I'll help you get through this.
TUVOK: I will initiate the meld and attempt to access the memory fragment. Once that has been accomplished, you will act as my pyllora.
JANEWAY: Your pyllora?
TUVOK: My guide, my counselor. You will help me reconstruct the memory in its entirety. And as I am reliving it, you will help me to objectify the experience. By processing the experience, rather than repressing it, I can begin to overcome my fear, anger and the other emotional responses, and to reintegrate the memory into my conscious mind.
JANEWAY: When I'm in your memory, will I actually be reliving it with you?
TUVOK: No. I will be the only one who notices your presence. You will be an observer in the memory, but not a participant. This will give you the freedom to guide me objectively.
JANEWAY: When do we start?
TUVOK: I will need time to prepare. Please return in one hour.
EMH: We're ready when you are, Captain.
TUVOK: Your mind to my mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts. I am taking us back, back to the boy that I was, the boy lying on the precipice.

[Excelsior bridge]
SULU: Return fire!
VALTANE: They've knocked out our targeting scanners.
SULU: Damage report. Seal that conduit!
RAND: Hull breach on deck twelve, section forty seven. We've lost power on decks five, six and ten. Casualty reports coming in. Nineteen wounded.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, can you see me?
TUVOK: Yes.
JANEWAY: Where are we?
TUVOK: My first deep space assignment aboard the Excelsior.
JANEWAY: Why did you bring us here?
TUVOK: I did not intend to.
JANEWAY: Can you take us to the precipice? The girl?
TUVOK: That is precisely what I attempted to do.
JANEWAY: There must be some reason why your mind brought us here. Maybe this memory is connected to the girl in some way. How long ago is this?
TUVOK: Stardate 9521, approximately eighty years ago.
JANEWAY: Who were you fighting?
TUVOK: The Klingons.
JANEWAY: Klingons. Before you collapsed in Engineering, you thought we were approaching Klingon space. Why are you fighting Klingons?
TUVOK: This battle was precipitated by an incident that took place three days earlier.

[Gamma shift crew quarters]
RAND: All right, gamma shift, time to defend the Federation against gaseous anomalies.
JANEWAY: Gaseous anomalies. We were charting a gaseous anomaly on Voyager.
TUVOK: And that's when my problem began.
JANEWAY: That's more than a coincidence.
RAND: How are you this morning, Ensign?
TUVOK: I am well, Commander. Thank you.
RAND: I thought you might like to see some of this morning's com traffic before you went on duty. There's a message from the Yorktown I think you might be interested in. It's from your father.
TUVOK: Thank you.
RAND: You're not going to have time to drink that, you know. You're due on the bridge in five minutes.
TUVOK: It's not for me. It's for the Captain. I've observed that Captain Sulu drinks a cup of tea each morning. I thought he might enjoy a Vulcan blend.
RAND: Oh, I see. Trying to make Lieutenant in your first month? I wish I'd have thought of that when I was your age. Took me three years just to make Ensign.
TUVOK: I assure you, I have no ulterior motive.
RAND: Whatever you say, Ensign. See you on the bridge.
JANEWAY: You've never brought me tea.

[Excelsior bridge]
SULU: Outstanding. I may have to give you a promotion.
TUVOK: That was not my motivation, Captain. I am not attempting to curry favor with you in any way.
SULU: Mister Tuvok, if you're going to remain on my ship, you're going to have to learn how to appreciate a joke. And don't tell me Vulcans don't have a sense of humor, because I know better.
TUVOK: I will work on it, sir.
SULU: Very good. And thanks again.
JANEWAY: He doesn't look anything like his portrait at Starfleet Headquarters.
TUVOK: In the twenty third century, holographic imaging resolution was less accurate.
JANEWAY: This is a science station, isn't it?
TUVOK: Yes. I am one of several junior science officers.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, why doesn't your service record reflect any of this? I thought your first assignment was aboard the Wyoming.
TUVOK: It's a long story, Captain, but suffice it to say, this was my first Starfleet career. I was twenty nine years old.
JANEWAY: So what's happening? Are we about to encounter the Klingons?
TUVOK: Not exactly. The Klingon moon Praxis is about to explode.
JANEWAY: Praxis.
TUVOK: During this period, it was a primary source of energy for the Klingon Homeworld.
JANEWAY: Praxis. Yes. Its destruction would have lasting repercussions throughout the quadrant, and it led to the first Federation-Klingon peace treaty.
TUVOK: That is correct.
JANEWAY: But what does all this have to do with the girl on the precipice?
VALTANE: I have an energy wave at two hundred and four degrees mark six port, sir.
SULU: Visual. My God!
SULU: Shields! Shields!
HELMSMAN: She is not answering the helm!
SULU: Starboard thrusters! Turn her into the wave!
HELMSMAN: Aye, sir.
SULU: Quarter impulse power. Damage report.
CREWMAN: Checking all systems, Captain.
SULU: Don't tell me that was any meteor shower.
VALTANE: Negative, sir. The subspace shock wave originated at bearing three two three, mark seven five. Location. It's Praxis, sir. It's a Klingon moon.
SULU: Praxis is their key energy production facility.
JANEWAY: So what happened? Did you go to Praxis?
TUVOK: No. We were warned off by the Klingons, and resumed our survey mission. However, two days later, we learned that two Starfleet officers were accused of murdering the Klingon Chancellor. They were brought back to the Klingon Homeworld to stand trial. Captain Sulu had served under both officers for many years, and he felt an intense loyalty to them.
SULU: Helm, set a course for Kronos, maximum warp. Take us through the Azure Nebula. That should conceal our approach.
HELMSMAN: Aye, sir.
JANEWAY: I don't get it. What's going on?
TUVOK: He is about to attempt a rescue of Captain Kirk and Doctor McCoy. As you can see, everyone seemed perfectly willing to go along with this breach of orders. However, I felt differently.
TUVOK: Captain, am I correct in assuming that you have decided to embark on a rescue mission?
SULU: That's right. Do you have a problem with that, Ensign?
TUVOK: I do. It is a direct violation of our orders from Starfleet Command, and it could precipitate an armed conflict between the Klingon Empire and the Federation.
SULU: Objection noted. Resume your station.
TUVOK: Sir, as a Starfleet officer, it is my duty to formally protest.
RAND: Tuvok!
SULU: A pretty bold statement for an Ensign with only two months space duty under his belt.
TUVOK: I am aware of my limited experience, but I am also very much aware of Starfleet regulations and my obligation to carry them out.
RAND: That's enough. Ensign, you're relieved. I'm sorry about this, Captain. I assure you it will not happen again.
SULU: Ensign, you're absolutely right. But you're also absolutely wrong. You'll find that more happens on the bridge of a starship than just carrying out orders and observing regulations. There is a sense of loyalty to the men and women you serve with. A sense of family. Those two men on trial, I served with them for a long time. I owe them my life a dozen times over, and right now they're in trouble, and I'm going to help them. Let the regulations be damned.
TUVOK: Sir, that is a most illogical line of reasoning.
SULU: You better believe it. Helm, engage.
JANEWAY: You know, you did the right thing.
TUVOK: Perhaps.
VALTANE: Captain, we're approaching the Azure Nebula.
SULU: On screen.
JANEWAY: Tuvok. That nebula. It looks very similar to the one we observed on Voyager.

[Precipice]
GIRL: Help me, Tuvok! Please don't let go! No!

[Sickbay]
EMH: Fifty milligrams cordrazine!
EMH: There was a sudden disruption in his hippocampus. Luckily, he was in sickbay, or he'd be in a coma right now. That's the good news. The bad news is that his synaptic pathways are continuing to degrade. If the repressed memory keeps resurfacing on its own, it's going to cause more and more damage. Eventually, his entire neural structure will collapse, resulting in brain death.
JANEWAY: We were just starting to make some progress. We finally accessed the repressed memory. I saw Tuvok as a boy. And the girl on the precipice. Can I talk to him?
EMH: Not yet. He suffered a severe neural trauma, so I'm keeping him sedated for the next few hours. I'll let you know when it's safe to revive him.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in. Ah, Ensign. What have you found?
KIM: I don't see any connection between this nebula and the one the Excelsior saw eighty years ago. This one's a class seventeen, while theirs was an eleven. Both contain trace amounts of sirillium, but that's about all.
JANEWAY: But they do look similar.
KIM: To the naked eye, but not to sensors. Technically, they're very different. You know, I've been talking to the doctor, and he tells me it's not unusual for a repressed memory to resurface because of a smell or a visual detail. Maybe the visual similarities between the two nebulas simply triggered Tuvok's memory of the Excelsior.
JANEWAY: Well, what about the memory of the little girl? What does she have to do with Tuvok's experiences on board Sulu's ship? The Excelsior seems so far removed from that childhood incident.
KIM: Who knows that goes on in a Vulcan's mind. Maybe there is no connection. And going back to the memory of the Excelsior was just an accident, a stray thought Tuvok was having because of the similarities between the two nebulas.
JANEWAY: You may be right. Nevertheless, I've been studying the Excelsior logs.
KIM: What do they say?
JANEWAY: Unfortunately, they don't say anything at all.
KIM: Nothing?
JANEWAY: It would seem that Captain Sulu decided not to enter that journey into his official log. The day's entry makes some cryptic remark about the ship being damaged in a gaseous anomaly and needing repairs, but nothing else.
KIM: You mean he falsified his logs?
JANEWAY: It was a very different time, Mister Kim. Captain Sulu, Captain Kirk, Dr. McCoy. They all belonged to a different breed of Starfleet officer. Imagine the era they lived in. The Alpha Quadrant still largely unexplored. Humanity on verge of war with Klingons. Romulans hiding behind every nebula. Even the technology we take for granted was still in its early stages. No plasma weapons, no multiphasic shields. Their ships were half as fast.
KIM: No replicators, no holodecks. You know, ever since I took Starfleet history at the academy, I always wondered what it would be like to live in those days.
JANEWAY: Space must have seemed a whole lot bigger back then. It's not surprising they had to bend the rules a little. They were a little slower to invoke the Prime Directive, and a little quicker to pull their phasers. Of course, the whole bunch of them would be booted out of Starfleet today. But I have to admit, I would have loved to ride shotgun at least once with a group of officers like that.
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Doctor.
EMH (voiceover): I'm ready to revive Mister Tuvok.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. I'm on my way.

[Sickbay]
TUVOK: Several hours after we entered the nebula, we were ambushed by Klingons. A battle ensued, and we were forced to abort our rescue mission.
JANEWAY: Do any of those events seem related to the girl in any way?
TUVOK: No. If there is a connection I am not aware of it. I suggest we attempt another mind-meld, and try again to access my memory of the girl.
JANEWAY: Agreed. Doctor.
TUVOK: Your mind to my mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts. I am taking us back, back to the boy that I was. The boy lying on the precipice.

[Excelsior bridge]
RAND: Hull breach on deck twelve, section forty seven.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, we're back in the battle with the Klingons again, eighty years ago.
TUVOK: I am at a loss to explain, Captain, but it's hard to accept this as a coincidence.
JANEWAY: Agreed. I want to go back to the moment when you first saw the nebula. What happened?
TUVOK: Captain Sulu estimated it would take approximately five hours to traverse the nebula and enter Klingon space. He decided my shift needed some rest, so we returned to the crew quarters.

[Gamma shift crew quarters]
TUVOK: I attempted to get some sleep. However, my bunk mate Dmitri Valtane felt the need to discuss our situation.
VALTANE: Hey. Tuvok. Are you asleep?
TUVOK: No.
VALTANE: Me neither. I can't believe we're going to do this. I didn't think the Captain had it in him.
TUVOK: Had what in him?
VALTANE: You know. The guts to defy an order and run off on some rescue mission to save old friends.
TUVOK: I take it from the tone of your voice that you admire this trait.
VALTANE: Well, yeah. It's courageous.
TUVOK: It's illogical and reckless, which I attempted to point out to him on the bridge.
VALTANE: Oh, come on, Tuvok. Isn't it more fun than charting gaseous anomalies?
TUVOK: The human fascination with fun has led to many tragedies in your short, but violent, history. One wonders how your race has survived having so much fun.
VALTANE: Vulcans. You guys need to relax.
TUVOK: No, I will not relax. Ever since I entered the Academy, I've had to endure the egocentric nature of humanity. You believe that everyone in the galaxy should be like you, that we should all share your sense of humor and your human values.
VALTANE: Well, if you hated it here so much, why'd you join Starfleet in the first place?
TUVOK: I joined under pressure from my parents. But I've already decided to resign my commission once this assignment is complete.
VALTANE: Well, your loss.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, did you really mean that?
TUVOK: At this point in my life, yes. My experiences at the Academy and on board the Excelsior were not pleasant.
JANEWAY: I knew you left Starfleet for over fifty years, but I never knew why. I didn't realize it was because of a conflict with humans.
TUVOK: My perceptions of humanity and Starfleet were undoubtedly colored by the fact that I did not want to be here in the first place.
JANEWAY: Your parents really forced you to go to the Academy?
TUVOK: It was their wish, and I felt an obligation to fulfill it.
JANEWAY: What did you do during those fifty years?
TUVOK: I returned to Vulcan, where I spent several years in seclusion, immersing myself in the Kolinahr, a rigorous discipline intended to purge all emotions. I wanted to attain a state of pure and total logic.
JANEWAY: What happened?
TUVOK: Unfortunately, six years into my studies, I began the Pon farr. I took a mate.
JANEWAY: T'Pel.
TUVOK: Yes. We decided to raise a family together, so I chose to postpone my studies.
JANEWAY: And what brought you back to Starfleet?
TUVOK: Raising children of my own made me appreciate what my parents experienced raising me. And I came to realize that the decisions I made as a young man were not always in my best interest. I understood their decision to send me to the Academy, and that there were many things I could learn from humans and other species, so I decided to expand my knowledge of the galaxy. Starfleet provided that opportunity.
JANEWAY: Well, I'm glad you had a change of heart.
TUVOK: As am I, Captain. Although, heart had very little to do with it. It was a logical decision.
JANEWAY: I'm sure it was.
SULU (voiceover): Red alert! All hands to battle stations!
VALTANE: Oh, what's going on? I thought we were still five hours from Klingon space.
TUVOK: A Klingon battle cruiser decloaked inside the nebula. At this moment, they were firing concussive charges across our bow.

[Excelsior bridge]
RAND: We're being hailed, Captain.
SULU: On screen.
KANG (screen): Mister Sulu, I see they have finally given you the captaincy you deserve.
SULU: Thank you, Kang.
KANG (screen): Do not let it end prematurely.
SULU: Kang, we've been on a survey mission studying this nebula. Our navigation system malfunctioned, and I'm afraid we got lost. As soon as we've completed repairs, we'll be on our way.
KANG (screen): We'd be happy to escort you back to Federation space.
SULU: Very generous of you, but we can manage.
KANG (screen): I insist.
SULU: Actually, an escort would be welcome. We'd hate to lose our way again.
KANG (screen): Bring your ship about, bearing one eight one, mark two.
SULU: Nice to see you again, Kang.
VALTANE: Captain Sulu?
SULU: Man your station, Lieutenant. We're not giving up just yet. Helm, come about. Tactical status.
VALTANE: They have their forward disruptors trained on us, sir.
SULU: Ensign Tuvok, what is the composition of this nebula?
TUVOK: Primarily oxygen and argon, with traces of theta-xenon, fluorine and sirillium gas.
SULU: Sirillium? That's a highly combustible substance, isn't it?
TUVOK: Affirmative.
SULU: Is there any way we could ignite the sirillium?
TUVOK: If we modulated a positron beam to a subspace frequency, it would trigger a thermochemical reaction in the sirillium.
SULU: Like tossing a match into a pool of gasoline. Would their shields withstand the blast?
TUVOK: Yes, but their sensors and tactical systems would be disrupted for several seconds.
SULU: That's all the time we need. Tuvok, modulate a positron beam and stand by. We'll ignite the sirillium the instant we clear the nebula. Helm, prepare to engage maximum warp on my command.
HELMSMAN: Aye, sir.
SULU: All hands, this is the Captain. Secure stations and batten down the hatches.
TUVOK: The positron beam is charged and ready.
SULU: On my mark, Ensign.
VALTANE: We're clearing the nebula.
SULU: Mister Tuvok, light the match.
VALTANE: The Klingon ship's been disabled. They're not pursuing, sir.
SULU: Helm, set a course for Kronos. Engage. Commander Rand, I want you
VALTANE: Sir, long-range sensors are detecting three Klingon battle cruisers on an intercept course. They're arming torpedoes.
HELMSMAN: Heading, sir?
SULU: Maintain course.
SULU: Return fire!
VALTANE: They've knocked out our targeting scanners.
SULU: Switch to manual!
TUVOK: Mister Valtane, there's a rupture in the plasma conduit behind your console. Get away from that station.
VALTANE: One more second.
TUVOK: Dmitri, you must
TUVOK: Bridge to sickbay. Medical emergency.
VALTANE: Tuvok.

[Precipice]
GIRL: Tuvok! Help! Don't let me fall! No!

[Sickbay]
KES: Doctor, what's happening?
EMH: Their memory engrams are destabilizing. Something must be going wrong with the mind-meld. I'm going to bring them out of it.
KES: It's not working.
EMH: Their neural patterns appear to be locked together. I can't break the meld. The damage to his synaptic patterns is accelerating. At this rate, he'll be brain dead in twenty minutes. Get me a cortical stimulator!

[Excelsior bridge]
JANEWAY: I saw her again, Tuvok. The girl. When Valtane died just now, it seemed to cause the memory to resurface. What is it?
TUVOK: Something's gone wrong with the mind-meld.
SULU: Who the hell are you? Intruder alert! Get Security up here.
JANEWAY: What's happening? Why can he see me?
SULU: I asked you a question. Who are you, and what are you doing on my ship?
TUVOK: It's an indication that the rate of deterioration in my brain has increased. At advanced stages of a t'lokan schism, memories and thought processes become distorted and confused.
SULU: Ensign. Do you know this woman?
TUVOK: I will break the meld, Captain.
JANEWAY: No, don't. I think we're getting close to something. Everything seems to be centerd around the death of Valtane.
RAND: Direct hit on the port bow. Shields down to twenty percent. Losing atmosphere in decks five, six and seven.
SULU: I'll reroute auxiliary power to structural integrity.
JANEWAY: Maybe something happened in that moment between the two of you, some detail you aren't remembering. I want you to try and replay those events one more time.
TUVOK: I will try. But I must point out that if my neural structures collapse during the meld, you will suffer brain damage as well.
JANEWAY: I understand.
SULU: Take those two to the brig.

[Excelsior turbolift]
TUVOK: Captain, if we replay those events and they see you, it will disrupt the memory again.
JANEWAY: Then we've got to find a way to make me inconspicuous.

[Gamma shift crew quarters]
RAND: All right, gamma shift. Time to defend the Federation against gaseous anomalies. How are you, Ensign? Who are you?
JANEWAY: We could have just asked her.
TUVOK: Asking female officers for their clothing could lead to misunderstanding.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've programmed a cortical stimulator to emit thoron radiation. We'll bombard his telepathic cortex. That should be enough to terminate the meld. We'll begin with a twenty kilodyne burst of five second duration on my mark. Now. It's working. Their neural patterns are starting to separate. My God!
KES: What is it?
EMH: That's Tuvok's memory engram. That's the Captain's. But this red pattern seems to be another engram.
KES: A third memory engram. How's that possible?
EMH: It's not. Which means it can't really be an engram. From the neurochemical modulation, I'd say it's something masquerading as an engram, the way viruses sometimes mimic certain blood factors to avoid being destroyed by antibodies.
KES: So you're saying it's a virus.
EMH: I think so. The thoron radiation must have caused it to manifest itself. Increasing the radiation levels should destroy it. Go to forty kilodynes, ten second burst. Now.

[Excelsior bridge]
VALTANE: The Klingon ship's been disabled, sir. They're no longer pursuing.
SULU: Helm, set a course for Kronos. Engage. Who's at Communications?
VALTANE: Commander Rand is supposed to be on duty, sir.
SULU: Where is she?
VALTANE: Sir, long-range sensors are detecting three Klingon battle cruisers on an intercept course. They're arming torpedoes.
SULU: Maintain course.
SULU: Return fire!
VALTANE: They've knocked out our targeting scanners, sir.
SULU: Switch to manual!
TUVOK: Mister Valtane, there's a rupture in the plasma conduit behind your console. Get away from that station.
VALTANE: One more second.
TUVOK: Dmitri, you must
JANEWAY: It's about to happen. Try to remember every detail about the next few seconds. Concentrate.
VALTANE: Tuvok.
GIRL (voiceover): Help me!

[Precipice]
GIRL: Help me, Tuvok!

[Excelsior bridge]
JANEWAY: I saw her, Tuvok. I saw the girl. Stay with it.
TUVOK: I am trying, but my mind is weakening.
JANEWAY: This is our last chance. Take us to the precipice. Concentrate. Take us to the girl.

[Sickbay]
EMH: It's working. The mind-meld is almost broken and the radiation appears to be killing the virus. Increase thoron levels to
EMH: The virus is migrating. It's embedding itself in the captain's brain. Cortical stimulator!

[Precipice]
GIRL: Kathryn! Help me, Kathryn, please! Don't let go. Don't let me fall. No!

[Sickbay]
EMH: Program a fifty kilodyne burst, five second duration on my mark. Now.

[Precipice]
GIRL: Help me, Tuvok!

[Sickbay]
EMH: The virus protein structures are breading down. It's dying. Increase thoron radiation to eighty kilodynes, fifteen seconds. Now.

[Precipice]
GIRL: Help me, Dmitri, please! Don't let go. Don't let me fall.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Again.

[Precipice]
GIRL: Don't let me fall! No!
GIRL: No!
GIRL: No!
GIRL: No!
GIRL: No!

[Sickbay]
EMH: It's clearly a viral parasite of some kind but its origin and genome classification are not on record.
KES: We were able to kill it using thoron radiation.
JANEWAY: What do you know about it?
EMH: The virus thrives on peptides generated in the brain. It evades the body's immune system by disguising itself as a memory engram.
KES: Apparently the parasite used the childhood memory of a falling girl as camouflage.
EMH: Creating a false memory so traumatic that the mind would repress it. And that's where it would live in person after person, hiding in a part of the brain that conscious mind would want to avoid at all costs.
JANEWAY: When it sensed the death of the host, it would leave to find another.
TUVOK: That's why it migrated from Valtane to me.
KES: What about the girl? Did she ever really exist, or did the organism invent the memory?
EMH: Memory is a tricky thing. If it was a real event, it's been buried and copied and twisted so many times, there's no way to tell what really happened.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Doctor.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: I'm curious. Did the Excelsior ever save Kirk and McCoy?
TUVOK: Not directly. We were forced to retreat back to Federation space. As usual, Captain Kirk provided his own means of escape. But we did play a pivotal role at the subsequent battle at Khitomer.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, if I didn't know you better, I'd say you miss those days on the Excelsior.
TUVOK: On the contrary. I do not experience feelings of nostalgia. But there are times when I think back to those days of meeting Kirk, Spock and the others, and I am pleased that I was part of it.
JANEWAY: In a funny way, I feel like I was a part of it too.
TUVOK: Then perhaps you can be nostalgic for both of us.

[Akritirian prison]
MAN (voiceover): New man coming!
MAN 2 (voiceover): New prisoner.
MAN (voiceover): Get out of my way!
MAN 2 (voiceover): There is a new man coming.
MAN 3 (voiceover): Here he comes.
MAN 2 (voiceover): Hurry up.
MAN (voiceover): New prisoner!
MAN 2 (voiceover): Hey, something's coming.
PIT: Get out of my way.
MAN: Kill him, kill him.
KIM: Tom.
PIT: Nobody touch him. He's mine.
KIM: Wait. This is a mistake. I don't belong here!
PIT: You don't? Well, I'll just take you home then. All right?
PARIS: This one's mine.
PIT: I say he's not.
PARIS: He's the reason that I'm here. He was my partner in a bombing. We killed forty seven patrollers at Akritiri. Forty seven! And then this scum confessed to the Tribunal and gave them my name. So I'm telling you again, he's mine.
PIT: I'm keeping him.
PIT: Take him. For now.

[Paris' hovel]
KIM: Did you have to hit me so hard?
PARIS: Trust me. Around here, you don't want anybody thinking you're soft.
KIM: Thanks for the tip. Is there any food?
PARIS: I haven't had anything to eat since I got here.
KIM: How long is that?
PARIS: Couple of days. Some shore leave, huh? What happened to you after they split us up?
KIM: The Akritirians interrogated me. When I wouldn't confess to the bombing, they dragged me in front of a judge. He said you'd already confessed for the both of us, then he pronounced me guilty.
PARIS: That's exactly what happened to me. Then they must have drugged me, because the next thing I knew, I woke up at the bottom of the chute to that welcoming party.
KIM: We've got to explain to somebody that there's been a mistake.
PARIS: Who did you have in mind?
KIM: A guard, the warden.
PARIS: Haven't seen anybody like that.
KIM: A prison without guards.
PARIS: The other inmates say this place is three hundred meters underground. Maybe the Akritirians figure guards aren't necessary.
KIM: Can I have some more?
PARIS: What do you think this is, a hotel? There isn't any more!
KIM: Take it easy.
PARIS: I'm sorry. I'm really starting to get edgy. I think it's the clamp.
KIM: The what?
PARIS: That's what the prisoners call it. Everybody has one.
KIM: What is it?
PARIS: I'm guessing it's some kind of synaptic stimulator. Anyway, it's affecting my nervous system. I've been getting jumpier ever since I got here, not to mention this thing itches like crazy.
KIM: What do you think it's for?
PARIS: Maybe it's some kind of torture device.
KIM: We could try taking them out.
PARIS: No! I saw someone try it. It killed him! What we have to do is find a way out of this place.
KIM: Let's get something straight first.
PARIS: What?
KIM: The next time you take a swing at me, I'm hitting back.
KIM: What's that?
PARIS: Another prisoner, maybe.
MAN (voiceover): Food! Food!
PARIS: Join me for dinner?

[Akritirian prison]
MAN: Oh, there's got to be more!
ZIO: I don't think he was going to eat it anyway, do you?
KIM: He's dead.
PARIS: I think I've lost my appetite. Captain's log, stardate 50156.2. After seventy two hours, Lieutenant Paris and Ensign Kim are still missing, and I'm quickly losing patience with the Akritirian authorities. They continue to deny us access to the surface, and they've yet to confirm whether our crewmen were killed in the bombing.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Anything?
TUVOK: I have completed another full sensor sweep, including multispectral subsurface scan. I still can not locate their life signs or their comm. badges.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, Ambassador Liria is hailing us.
JANEWAY: On screen. I'm only in a mood for good news today, Ambassador.
LIRIA (screen): I'm afraid I can't oblige.
JANEWAY: Are you saying they're dead?
LIRIA (screen): No, they're very much alive.
JANEWAY: Then where are they?
LIRIA (screen): Your men have been convicted of the terrorist bombing at the Laktivia recreational facility, which resulted in the death of forty seven off-duty patrollers.
JANEWAY: I assure you, Ambassador, my people had nothing to do with this attack.
LIRIA (screen): We found chemical traces of the explosive used in the bombing on their hands and clothing.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure the same could be said of anyone who was near the explosion. It's hardly enough evidence for a conviction.
LIRIA (screen): The explosive was trilithium based. There is no source of trilithium anywhere in our system. So, you can imagine our surprise when our investigation revealed that your ship is powered by dilithium, which our scientists tell us is convertible into trilithium. We have long suspected that the so-called Open Sky Terrorists had off-world collaborators. Now we know who they are.
TUVOK: Captain, two Akritirian ships are approaching at bearing two seven one, mark six four.
LIRIA (screen): Prepare your ship for inspection, Captain.
JANEWAY: If it will help confirm our innocence, I'll consider it. But first I want to know where my people are being held, and I want to talk to them immediately.
LIRIA (screen): Communication with inmates is not permitted.
JANEWAY: If you want my co-operation, Ambassador, you're going to have to do better than that.
LIRIA (screen): Perhaps you've misunderstood me. Let me clarify our position. Your vessel is being impounded. You and your crew are under arrest. Prepare to be boarded.
TUVOK: Captain, their ships are powering weapons.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, raise shields. Mister Chakotay, take the conn. I'd like to resolve this situation peacefully, Ambassador, but let me clarify my position. I will not allow this ship to be boarded.
LIRIA (screen): That, Captain, is an error in judgment.
TUVOK: Captain, should I return fire?
JANEWAY: That's not going to help us get Tom and Harry back. We need to regroup. Get us out of here, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.

[Paris' hovel]
KIM: What took you so long? I've been back at least half an hour.
PARIS: You're starting to feel it, aren't you?
KIM: I guess I am.
PARIS: It gets worse all the time. We have to fight it. Let's focus on something positive.
KIM: How about a seven course dinner? I suppose you didn't find any food.
PARIS: Er, well, I found close to fifty good citizens in this quaint little community, but not a grocer among them.
KIM: I take it that's a no.
PARIS: Yeah. But if we ever do get our hands on some food, I found a lovely spot for a picnic.
KIM: Great. All we need are the Delaney sisters and we could make a day of it.
PARIS: So how about you? Come across anything interesting in your travels?
KIM: If you mean an escape route, I ran into nothing but solid walls.
PARIS: Me too. As far as I can see, the only way to the surface is that chute in the main chamber.
KIM: Question is, how do we get into it without getting fried by that forcefield? You saw what happened to the man who reached inside.
PARIS: That's where this might come in handy.
PARIS: I thought if we could get our hands on some loose wiring, you might be able to use it to rig a device that would short out the forcefield long enough for us to get into the tube.
KIM: It's worth a try.
PARIS: Yeah. Now if we could only figure out a way to short out these implants, we'd be all set.

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: There's no indication they followed us.
JANEWAY: I guess they're more interested in getting rid of us than finding out the truth.
TORRES: We've got to go back for Harry and Tom.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna.
TUVOK: We have no information as to their whereabouts. And if we return to Akritirian space, we are sure to encounter further hostilities.
JANEWAY: Tuvok is right. Let's concentrate on proving Harry and Tom's innocence.
TORRES: How do we do that?
JANEWAY: We know the explosive was trilithium based. If we find the source of that trilithium, it may lead us to the real bombers.
CHAKOTAY: Our long range scans indicate that Liria was right. There's no trilithium in this sector.
TORRES: What about paralithium? It's used as a fuel for some ion based propulsion systems, and it can be converted into trilithium.
JANEWAY: Review our sensor logs of ships entering and leaving Akritirian space during the time we were in orbit. If anybody's using paralithium for fuel, I want to find out who they are and where they went.

[Akritirian prison]
KIM: Come on, come on, come on.
PARIS: Take it easy. You'll get it.
KIM: Damn! I can't think! I can't concentrate!
PARIS: Okay. Okay, concentrate on this. Crown roast of lamb, with a bed of wild rice, and a 2296 Chateau Lafitte Rothschild at the real Sandrine's.
KIM: Or how about shrimp with fettran sauce, flambé noodles and fudge ripple pudding.
PARIS: Good one. Okay. A couple of barbecued T-bone steaks with baked Risan beans and cherry pie for dessert. Let's see you top that one.
KIM: Right now, I'm so hungry I could eat a bowl of Neelix's leola root stew.
PARIS: Me too. Never thought I'd say that.
KIM: I'm ready to give it a try. So far, so good.
PARIS: Are you okay?
PIT: What are you doing?
PARIS: Just out for a little stroll. Move it!
PIT: What's that?
KIM: A pipe.
PIT: Let's see it.
PARIS: Come on. I'd really recommend that you stay out of my way.
PIT: You should have thought of that before you took him.
KIM: Come on, Tom.
KIM: Tom!
KIM: Back off! Back off! Back off! Back off! Hang on. I'm getting you out of here.
ZIO: No fight, no fight. If he doesn't bleed to death, he'll die from infection.
KIM: We've got to get him to a doctor.
ZIO: Of course. We'll call an emergency vehicle and rush him to a hospital.
ZIO: Hey! What do you want for the dead man's boots?
KIM: You can make it. Just a few more steps and we'll be back to the shelter.
PARIS: Home sweet home. Harry.
KIM: Yeah.
PARIS: I'm hurt pretty bad.
KIM: I'll take care of it.
PARIS: Promise me something.
KIM: What?
PARIS: If things get worse, if it comes down to making a choice, don't worry about me. Take care of yourself. Do we have a deal?
KIM: Quiet.
KIM: Hey! What are you doing in there?
RIB: Get out.
KIM: This place is ours.
RIB: Get out! Get out! Get out!

[Zio's hovel]
KIM: Okay, here's the deal. My boots for some clean cloth, a liter of water, two of those food cakes and my friend gets to stay in there until he's better.
ZIO: I don't take in boarders.
KIM: What about the rest of it?
ZIO: I don't like the color.
PARIS: Come on. Let's go. This guy's not going to help us.
KIM: Just tell me what you want for the food and the bandages, okay?
ZIO: That pipe you were working with interests me.
KIM: I can't trade the pipe.
ZIO: Then I guess we don't have a deal. Now move on. You're blocking my light.
KIM: I'll take you with me.
ZIO: Take me where?
KIM: I know a way out of this place.
ZIO: I've been in here six years. I've never heard of a way out.
KIM: The chute.
ZIO: Anybody that tries to get in there gets hit with an energy pulse.
KIM: With this pipe, I can disable the forcefield. With a little luck, we can make it to the surface. What are you staring at?
ZIO: I'm trying to figure out if you're a liar, or if the clamp has already made you crazy.
KIM: Neither. And I'll prove it to you.
ZIO: You stand your ground. I like that.
KIM: Then we have a deal?
ZIO: Just remember one thing. If you're lying, I'll kill you. Captain's log, supplemental. So far we've located three ships with paralithium plasma emissions, but none of them appears to have produced explosives. We're currently in pursuit of a fourth vessel.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We're in hailing range of the Akritirian freighter, Captain.
TUVOK: I'm only reading two life signs aboard.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. This is Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager to the captain of the Akritirian cargo vessel.
VEL (screen): I'm the captain of this vessel. What do you want?
JANEWAY: Two of my crew members were convicted by the Akritirians of a terrorist bombing. We're trying to prove their innocence, and we have reason to believe a ship like yours, which uses paralithium for fuel, might have been involved in the production of the explosives.
PIRI (screen): Let's get out of here.
VEL (screen): Quiet. This is a cargo vessel.
JANEWAY: Then you won't mind if a few of my crew members come aboard to have a look around.
VEL (screen): Not if they don't mind having their throats cut.
JANEWAY: There's no need to be abrupt.
CHAKOTAY: I guess you're not the only captain who doesn't want their ship boarded.
TORRES: Captain, I'm picking up residual traces of trilithium. They're faint but they're there. I think we may have found our bomb makers.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, send a security detail to Transporter room two. Lieutenant Torres, beam the two of them aboard and tractor their ship into the shuttle bay.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.

[Conference room]
VEL: You have no right to hold us.
JANEWAY: My people have been accused of aiding a terrorist group called Open Sky. What do you know about them?
PIRI: They're not terrorists. They're patriots. One day they'll lead the legitimate government of our people.
VEL: We don't have to answer any of their questions, Piri.
JANEWAY: Sounds to me like your young friend here sympathizes with these patriots.
VEL: She's not my friend. She's my sister. And our political views are none of your business.
JANEWAY: I don't know much about your world, but I do know that my people are being held for a crime they didn't commit and I'm going to do everything in my power to get them out. Do you understand that?
TUVOK: We have confirmed that explosives were indeed produced aboard their ship.
JANEWAY: Escort them to the brig.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: And have Mister Chakotay lay in a course for the Akritirian border.
VEL: Let my sister go. She didn't have anything to do with the bombing and she's only fourteen.
PIRI: Prison doesn't scare
VEL: Quiet, Piri. Please, you don't know what you're saying. Nobody ever gets out of prison on Akritiri. They'll just let her rot in there for the rest of her life.
JANEWAY: I admire your desire to protect your sister but, it's not really up to me, is it?
PIRI: Tell them what we know.
JANEWAY: Tell me what?
VEL: Piri, don't.
PIRI: Our brigade found out where the maximum security detention facility is located.
VEL: My sister has quite a vivid imagination.
PIRI: With this ship, you can attack the prison and get your people out.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. That's not how we do things where I come from.
PIRI: Coward.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, see that they get a bath and a hot meal.

[Zio's hovel]
PARIS: I don't trust that guy, Harry.
KIM: I can handle him.
PARIS: Just watch your back, okay?
KIM: Try to get some rest.
PARIS: Remember our deal?
KIM: What deal?
PARIS: If it comes down to it, you're going to save yourself, right? If you see a chance, just go. Don't come back for me.
KIM: I think the clamp must really be starting to make you crazy.
PARIS: I'm serious, Harry.
ZIO: I'm getting tired of waiting.
KIM: I've got to go.
PARIS: Harry.

[Akritirian prison]
KIM: Damn it!
ZIO: Don't fight it. Use it.
KIM: How do I do that? I feel like there's a million fire ants in my brain.
ZIO: Good. Make them work for you.
KIM: How?
ZIO: Fire ants sound vicious. Imagine them as your army moving in a vast wave to conquer your enemy. There's a massive struggle going on inside you, a battle to the death between you and the clamp. You have to use whatever force you can to defeat it.
KIM: I'd rather use my energy to work on getting out of here.
ZIO: When I first got here, I assumed the clamp was just a refined form of torture to make our prison stay that much more arduous. Gradually, I began to understand it more fully. It's all right here in my manifesto. My insights, my reasoning, my evidence. It's an experiment. They're studying us like animals. Pitting us against each other to find out what happens. You can see that, can't you?
KIM: I guess so.
ZIO: The greatest threat, of course, would be if we started to cooperate with each other, so they prevented that. But there had to be more to it than that. And the longer I was in here, the more I knew it was my job to figure it out. That's the reason I was put here. And eventually, it came to me as though a fireball had exploded in my mind. And the realization gave me a power over the others. They don't come near me any more. They're afraid of me because I know the truth. Well? Don't you want to know what it is? What is the ultimate purpose of the clamp?
KIM: Okay.
ZIO: It's inspired. Brilliant. It's a method for controlling the prison population. We kill each other off.
KIM: Sure. Whatever you say.
ZIO: So you must enter into the battle. If you let the clamp control you, you'll end up like that crazy old man that took over your shelter. But if you learn to control it, you'll survive. Like me.
KIM: Yes. I plan to be out of here before it even becomes an issue. Go ahead. Touch it.

[Top of the chute]
ZIO: What do you see?
KIM: Some kind of hatch.
ZIO: What do you see? Are we at the surface?

[Zio's hovel]
PARIS: Harry.
KIM: How are you feeling?
PARIS: Er, I was dreaming about Megan Delaney.
KIM: Next time I'll try not to wake you.
PARIS: The chute. You made it in? Did you find a way out?
KIM: Not yet, but we're very close. It's just a matter of time, so you've got to hang in there, okay?
PARIS: What, what happened to me?
KIM: Easy, Tom. You got stabbed, remember?
PARIS: Who, who did it?
KIM: One of the prisoners.
PARIS: No. No, it was you.
KIM: I'm trying to change your bandage.
PARIS: No, get away from me!
KIM: Please!
PARIS: Get away from me!
KIM: I'm trying to help you! Tom! Tom, give me the pipe. We need it to get out of here, remember? It's okay. Let me take it.
PARIS: Harry. What's happening to me?
KIM: You're going to be okay.
PARIS: Harry?
KIM: Yeah?
PARIS: Don't leave me here.
KIM: Close your eyes.

[Outside Zio's hovel]
ZIO: Sleep well?
KIM: No.
ZIO: How about your friend? Is he dead yet?
KIM: Shut up! The chute leads to a docking port, right? Some kind of ship must come to drop off food, drop off new prisoners. So maybe we could get aboard the ship.
ZIO: It's getting the best of you.
KIM: I know we could do it.
ZIO: You think they're just going to open the hatch and ask us if we'd like a ride home?
KIM: We'd have the element of surprise.
ZIO: And they'd have the pulse guns.
KIM: If we could hold them off, distract them, just for a few minutes, I could establish our location, get a message to Voyager, and they could get us out of here. We'll need weapons.
ZIO: I've never let anyone see this, but I'm going to let you read my manifesto. It'll teach you how to control the clamp.
KIM: I don't want to read your crazy manifesto.
ZIO: Take it. Learn everything I know.
KIM: Now, are you going to help me or not?
ZIO: If I were like the others, I'd kill you. But I don't lose control. That's the difference between me and you.

[Akritirian prison]
KIM: Listen! Listen to me, everybody! This is important. I've got something to say. Something you'll want to hear. It's what you've been waiting for.
PIT: What the hell do you want?
KIM: I've found a way out of here.
PIT: There's no way out.
KIM: There is! Through the chute! I've been inside! Listen! We have to work together! They'd like us all to kill each other, but we have to cooperate. If we do, we can get out of here.
PIT: If you've been in the chute, where does it lead?
ALL: Yeah! Yeah!
KIM: Space. It's the truth! We can escape, if we work together!

[Zio's hovel]
KIM: What the hell are you doing?
PARIS: Stay back.
KIM: You've ruined it! You
PARIS: It's mine! Mine!
ZIO: Go ahead. Finish him.

[Outside Zio's hovel]
ZIO: You wanted to kill him, didn't you?
KIM: He's my best friend!
ZIO: No, that's where you're wrong. He's too far gone to be your friend. All he is now is a burden.
KIM: That's not true!
ZIO: He eats your food. He ruined your device. He's given in to the clamp. You've got to get rid of him before he brings you down with him.
KIM: Quiet!
ZIO: You've got a chance to make something of your life in here, but as long as that carcass is in my hut, we'll never be able to go on to more important things.
KIM: What the hell are you talking about?
ZIO: We've got to disseminate the manifesto. Gather our followers. Train them.
KIM: You're insane.
ZIO: You want my protection? You want to live under my roof? Get rid of him.
KIM: I don't need your protection!
ZIO: How long do you think you'll last against Pit and the others without me looking out for you?
ZIO: Go ahead, take it. Think of what a relief it will be not to have that responsibility, and be free of his ranting.
KIM: I'm not a killer.
ZIO: Do you want to survive in here? You'd better learn to be.
KIM: If that's what it takes to stay alive, then I'd rather die.
ZIO: Get out now. And take him with you, or I will kill him.

[Bridge]
LIRIA (screen): Unless you've decided to relinquish control of your vessel, Captain, I suggest that you do not proceed across our border.
JANEWAY: We've captured the ship and crew responsible for the bombing at the Laktivia canteen.
LIRIA (screen): I see.
JANEWAY: I'm prepared to trade them for the immediate and unconditional release of Lieutenant Paris and Ensign Kim.
LIRIA (screen): Your crewmen have already been tried and convicted.
JANEWAY: Are you saying those convictions can't be reversed? No matter what new evidence is brought to light?
LIRIA (screen): You are correct.
JANEWAY: That is an outrageous policy.
LIRIA (screen): I assure you, it has proved to be a most effective deterrent. Good day, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: So much for negotiating.
TUVOK: What should we do with the prisoners?
JANEWAY: Bring Vel to my ready room. Now.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: I want the location and shield codes of the maximum security detention facility.
VEL: What's wrong? the Akritirians didn't agree to your terms?
JANEWAY: No, as a matter of fact. But I suspect you will.
VEL: And what makes you so sure?
JANEWAY: Because if you don't, you and your sister are going to spend the rest of your lives in prison.
VEL: I'll take you to the prison. And I'll get you in. But there are members of Open Sky in there and I want to get them out too.
JANEWAY: I don't think you understand the way this works. You tell me what I want to know, and after I get my people back, I let you and your sister go.
VEL: That's not good enough.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, inform the Akritirians that we're ready to turn the prisoners over.
VEL: All right.
TUVOK: Crewman Foster, take the prisoner to Commander Chakotay. He will upload the coordinates and codes.
TUVOK: May I ask how you propose to get past the Akritirian patrols? No doubt they will attack as soon as Voyager crosses the border.
JANEWAY: That's exactly why the rescue team won't be aboard Voyager.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: If I'm not mistaken, Mister Neelix's ship is still in our shuttle bay.
TUVOK: Yes. However, Mister Neelix's vessel has extremely limited combat capabilities.
JANEWAY: Then we'll have to be very careful, won't we?

[Akritirian prison]
PIT: I want his clothes, and I want his shoes!
KIM: This man is my friend. Nobody touches him!
PIT: Back off! You won't have to get hurt.
MAN (voiceover): It's the chute!
PIT: New prisoner!
MAN: I got him!
TUVOK: Hands on your heads.
JANEWAY: Do it! Now!
NEELIX (voiceover): Neelix to Lieutenant Tuvok.
TUVOK: Go ahead.
NEELIX (voiceover): We've got company.

[Neelix's ship]
NEELIX: Two Akritirian patrol ships on an intercept course. I'm not sure how long I can hold them off.
TUVOK (voiceover): We are moving as quickly as we can, Mister Neelix.

[Akritirian prison]
KIM: Captain.
JANEWAY: Where's Tom?
KIM: He needs help.
TUVOK: Go.

[Neelix's ship]
PATROL (voiceover): Akritirian Patrol to alien vessel. Disengage immediately.
NEELIX: Akritirian Patrol. Er, am I in Akritirian space? Oh, dear. I, I thought this was the Heva Seven refueling port. You wouldn't by any chance be able to recommend a respectable establishment where I could have my navigational array repaired?
PATROL (voiceover): Disengage immediately. This is your final warning.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Neelix. Everyone's aboard.
NEELIX: Acknowledged. I know it's a little cramped back there, so if there's anything I can do to make you more comfortable.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Neelix, just get us out of here.
NEELIX: Of course, Captain. Talaxian vessel to Akritirian Patrol. My apologies for the little mix-up. I'll departing now as per your orders.
PATROL (voiceover): Power down your engines and prepare to be boarded.
NEELIX: Er, what was that, Patrol? That last message was garbled.

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: I've always thought of my piloting skills as modest at best, and the conditions were extremely dangerous. Still, I did outmaneuver those Akritirians, didn't I?
PARIS: You did a terrific job, Neelix.
JANEWAY: I agree. Excellent piloting.
NEELIX: I'm glad to hear you say that, Captain, because I've been thinking. Until Tom here gets back on his feet, perhaps I could, er, try my hand at conn for a while.
EMH: That won't be necessary. Lieutenant Paris is just fine, thanks to excellent doctoring. I've finished analyzing these implants, and you'll be happy to know that the treatment I've provided will successfully counteract their effect on you.
JANEWAY: What exactly was the effect?
EMH: My readings indicate that the implants are designed to stimulate the production of acetylcholine in the hypothalamus.
KES: That would explain the agitation.
EMH: Hmm. Acetylcholine is a brain chemical common to the neural structures of most humanoids. Essentially, it helps stimulate one's aggressive tendencies.
KIM: Zio was right.
PARIS: Come on, Harry. We're overdue for that steak dinner.
KIM: I guess so.
PARIS: What do you mean, you guess so? It's the thought of that dinner that kept us going.

[Corridor]
PARIS: So, what do you think? Er, baked potato, a big mound of deep fried onion rings.
KIM: Tom
PARIS: Maybe, maybe, some grilled mushrooms.
KIM: Tom, listen to me. I, I almost killed you.
PARIS: What are you saying? You're the one that kept me alive.
KIM: I was ready to hit you with the pipe. Don't you remember?
PARIS: You want to know what I remember? Someone saying, this man is my friend. Nobody touches him. I'll remember that for a long time. So, what do you say we blow a week's worth of replicator rations?
KIM: So what's for dessert?
PARIS: Cherry pie. Don't you remember?
KIM: What about the fudge ripple pudding?
PARIS: Ah! Yes.

[Shuttlecraft]
TORRES: We've been out here almost 5 hours and we haven't seen any sign of those energy signatures. Isn't it time to admit they were nothing more than galactic background noise?
PARIS: I want to keep looking a while longer, just to be sure.
TORRES: Ah!
PARIS: What's wrong?
TORRES: Cramp. Klingon bodies weren't meant to sit in a cockpit for five hours at a stretch.
PARIS: You have a big dinner date or something?
TORRES: What's that supposed to mean?
PARIS: Well, you've been angling to get back to Voyager for about two hours now. Just thought maybe there was a reason? Like Ensign Bristow.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: Oh, I've noticed he's been making any excuse to hang around engineering. Around you.
TORRES: Freddie Bristow is a child.
PARIS: Oh, really. He looks like a grown up to me. Tall, good-looking and I hear he plays a mean set of Pareses Squares.
TORRES: I played one game with him, and I whipped him. Look, he has a crush on me. I can handle it. Why are you so interested?
PARIS: I'm just curious how someone with Klingon blood seems to live the life of a tabern monk.
TORRES: Lieutenant, that is none of your business.
PARIS: Well, if you ever have a free evening, I have a holodeck program you might enjoy. Sailing on Lake Como?
TORRES: I'd rather take my chances with Freddie Bristow. Those energy signatures are back.
PARIS: We must have crossed into a tachyon field.
TORRES: What's that?
PARIS: A ship has locked onto our hull.
TORRES: Why didn't we detect it?
PARIS: The tachyon field must have disrupted our sensors. I'm Lieutenant Tom Paris.

[Holodeck - Parisian cafe, 1830s]
EMH: O soave fanciulla, O dolce viso di mite circonfuso alba lunar, in te ravviso il sogno ch'io vorrei sempre sognar!
DIVA: Ah, tu sol comandi, amor
EMH: Computer, pause playback. Excuse me but your entrance was early. You're rushing the tempo.
DIVA: I am not rushing, you are lagging behind like a tired donkey.
EMH: I assure you I have studied the finest recordings of this opera. Caruso and Galli-Curci, Pavarotti and Freni, Sural and T'Pena of Vulcan. My tempo is accurate.
DIVA: Galli-Curci, Freni, T'Pena. They're all fallite, mere dust balls. Solo niente, they are nothing. Giuseppina Pantangeli, the greatest soprano living of the 22nd century transcends them all, and conductors take their tempi from me! Capite?
EMH: In this instance they take it from me. I've programmed the orchestral playback.
DIVA: Who allows you to make this choice? You are an amateur, you have no sense of rubato, no rallentando. It's like singing with a computer!
EMH: Madam, I may be an amateur, but I'm also known as a quick study, and as I am in charge of this program you will do it my way! Shall we try it again. Computer, start playback. O soave fanciulla, O... Stop playback.
DIVA: What now? No e possibile.
EMH: I couldn't remember the words.
DIVA: In all of my career I have never forgotten the lyrics. This is the difference between amateur and professionale.
EMH: Just a momentary lapse, no need to over-react.
DIVA: You cretino non esistete. This is infuriating! I want another partner! I I volo no subito.
EMH: I'm the one who needs another partner! You've got me so upset I can't sing. Computer, delete
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to the Doctor. We have a medical emergency. Report to sickbay.
EMH: Right away, Captain. A dio, madam. Next time I'll take my chances with Maria Callas. Computer, delete the diva.
DIVA: Imbecille. Pensale la men..

[Sickbay]
EMH: Their nervous system suffered trauma from some type of neuro-electric weapon. It must have been extremely painful.
TORRES: It certainly was.
JANEWAY: Do you know why they attacked you?
TORRES: No idea. They seemed to be trying to communicate with us but we couldn't understand them and then they just lifted their weapons.
EMH: The injuries are treatable. It shouldn't take long.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, send a message on all subspace bands. I want to find out why my people were attacked.
TUVOK: Aye Captain.
JANEWAY: I'll ask Neelix if he knows anything about these people. Doctor, keep me posted.
EMH: It would help if you didn't fidget so much.
TORRES: I'm really feeling better. Can't I get out of here?
EMH: When you're ready to leave I will tell you.
KES: Doctor, Tom doesn't seem to be responding to the treatment.
EMH: I'll look at him. Where's my retinal imager?
KES: I haven't seen it.
EMH: Did you move it from the instrument tray?
KES: I haven't been near the instrument tray.
EMH: I've just had the most unpleasant encounter with a mad woman on the holodeck. She must have upset me more than I realized. Lieutenant, you're perfectly all right. What are you still doing here?
TORRES: Thank you.
KES: I think he must have suffered some very deep tissue damage. The regenerator isn't helping. Doctor?

[Briefing Room]
TUVOK: I've made numerous hails on wideband subspace. The only response has been a single repeating message.
CHAKOTAY: What's that?
JANEWAY: I'd guess it's a language so unlike ours that the universal translator can't interpret it. Harry, remodulate the translator, see if we can decipher those sounds. Neelix, what can you tell us?
NEELIX: If these people are who I think they are, I can tell you this is very bad news. I've never actually encountered them but from what I've heard I'm glad I didn't. Most ships that enter their space are never heard from again. Some have returned with everyone on board dead. They're a complete mystery. No one knows their name, how many of them there are, what the culture is like. Just that they really don't want people violating their territory.
KIM: If this is any indication of their borders, it's a huge area of space, hundreds of sectors. If we were to go around it it would take months.
CHAKOTAY: I'd say over fifteen months even if we could sustain maximum warp, which we can't.
JANEWAY: I'm not going to tell this crew we're adding another fifteen months to this journey. We'll have to find another option.
TUVOK: If we are not to go around their space the only available option is to go through it.
JANEWAY: Precisely.
KIM: Tom and B'Elanna hit a sensor net as they crossed the border. We have to figure we'll run into it when we try to cross. But there are ways around sensor nets.
CHAKOTAY: They can't possibly have enough ships to patrol a border this size. We could probably find an unguarded section.
TUVOK: Would it affect your decision if I pointed out that encroaching on the territory of an alien species is prohibited by starfleet regulations?
JANEWAY: No, it wouldn't.
TUVOK: Captain, you have managed to surprise me.
JANEWAY: We're a long way from starfleet, Lieutenant. I'm not about to waste 15 months because we've run into a bunch of bullies.
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Doctor.
EMH (voiceover): Please turn to your emergency medical holographic channel. I'm afraid Lieutenant Paris suffered greater neurological damage than my initial scan revealed. I'm going to have to perform a motor cortex reconstruction. There's no need to be overly concerned. His condition is not life-threatening. The procedure is a relatively simple one for a skilled physician.
JANEWAY: Very good, Doctor. Keep me informed. All right, I want a plan for crossing that border as quickly and as quietly as possible. We'll reconvene in an hour. Dismissed.

[Sickbay]
EMH: O soave fanciulla, o dolce viso di mite circonfuso alba lunar.
KES: Doctor, I have the cortical analeptics you asked for.
EMH: Good. Fill the hyposprays, we'll begin as soon as I've finished scrubbing.
KES: Did I hear you singing?
EMH: Yes. 'O soave fanciulla'. It's an aria from La Boheme, a truly exquisite opera by Giacomo Puccini, a human composer of the nineteenth century.
KES: I didn't realize you enjoyed music.
EMH: I've recently begun a thorough study of opera. I find it quite satisfying, but I am having difficulty finding a holographic partner for the role of Mimi. All the soprani seem to have the most irritating personalities. These women are arrogant, superior, condescending. I can't imagine anyone behaving that way.
KES: What is it?
EMH: A quiz for you. What is the first step in this procedure?
KES: Establish the axon connections and then test for synaptic potentials.
EMH: Ah, quite right. Very good.
KES: Doctor, what is it?
EMH: We seem to have a small problem. I can't remember how to perform this operation.
EMH: All right. I've repaired the damaged pre-ganglionic fibers in the spinal column.
KES: The final step is to restore the nerve sheath. You'll need the myelin regenerator.
EMH: What is it?
KES: He's going into respiratory arrest!
EMH: What do I do?
KES: Apply an ethorin pulse to stabilize his motor neurons.
EMH: Apply a what?
KES: Vital signs are returning to normal. There, myelin regeneration is complete. What's the synaptic potential reading?
EMH: Synaptic potentials are normal. Autonomic enzymatic systems are functioning.
KES: Very good, Doctor, I think you've done it.
TORRES: The EMH database seems to be experiencing a cascading overload of some kind. Doc's memory circuits are deteriorating.
JANEWAY: We knew the Doctor was never designed to be up and running as much as he has been, but I thought you programmed safety buffers so his circuits wouldn't degrade?
TORRES: I did, and I installed them, but they're breaking down.
EMH: My self diagnostic routines have always indicated that in the event of cascade failure I should simply be re-initialized.
TORRES: That would stop the cascade and allow us to reset your database and personality sub-routines, but
KES: But what?
TORRES: It would restore the original program. Reset him to the person he was when we first activated him.
JANEWAY: In other words, he'd forget everything that's happened to him over the past two years.
TORRES: Right.
JANEWAY: Doctor, how do you feel about that?
EMH: I can't say I'd like to lose the last two years, but my primary responsibility is the health and welfare of this crew. In my current state I am useless to them. I believe Lieutenant Torres should start the re-initialisation process immediately.
KES: No, wait. Wait, please. We can't just treat the Doctor like he's a computer any more. He's come too far for that. Doctor, please, think about this. You'd be losing so much. Relationships you've developed, our friendship, your sense of being a true member of his crew. All that would be gone.
EMH: I can't put personal concerns over that of the crew.
KES: Look at the experiences you've had since you were activated. You've made friends, learnt how to sing opera. You've even fallen in love. If you lose those memories you won't be the same person. You said you don't know what's causing his memory circuits to fail.
TORRES: Unfortunately no.
KES: So, if you re-initialize without finding out what's wrong the problem could occur again.
TORRES: It's a possibility.
KES: Isn't it a better plan to look for the cause of the problem? If B'Elanna can find it there may be a less radical solution. Tom Paris is stable, he'll be back on duty today. There's no medical crisis at the moment. I can certainly handle all the routine cases in sickbay. Please, let's not just erase him without trying to help him first.
JANEWAY: If a crewmember came down with a debilitating illness you'd do everything in your power to make them well again. I think we owe you nothing less.
TORRES: I'll get started.
KES: Don't be discouraged. I know B'Elanna can find a way.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Captain? I think we've found it. A way to get across the border without being detected.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
KIM: Their sensor net uses a series of interlaced tachyon beams. If we adjust our shields to refract those beams around the ship we can slip across without appearing to have disrupted the net.
JANEWAY: Not bad.
CHAKOTAY: And we've found that this area shows no indication of their vessels. We can slide through, go to high warp and be through this narrow section of their territory in four days.
JANEWAY: Good work. Helm, set a course for the border. Helm: Aye Captain.

[Sickbay]
EMH: What are you doing now?
TORRES: I want to see if the data corruption is affecting your optical sensors. What did that do?
EMH: I can't see! I'm blind!
TORRES: All right.
EMH: Oh! That is extremely disconcerting. Please don't do it again! Now what are you doing?
TORRES: Attenuating your forcefield projectors. Doctor, forgive me, but this is very delicate work. Could you please sit over there for a few minutes.
EMH: How extremely rude. May I remind you that I am, in a way, your patient, who's suffering from an unknown and obviously debilitating condition. I would think you'd be a little more sensitive to my needs.
TORRES: You are questioning my bedside manner? The good news is that your projection system doesn't seem to be affected. However, I don't know why your circuits are degrading.
EMH: Then what do we do now?
TORRES: What we do now is get a second opinion. I'll transfer you to the holodeck in a few minutes. Wait here.

[Corridor - outside Holodeck two]
TORRES: Computer. Initiate Jupiter Station diagnostic program alpha one one.
COMPUTER: The program is activated.

[Holodeck - Jupiter Station]
TORRES: Computer, transfer the program for the Emergency Medical Hologram to Holodeck two.
EMH: I seem to remember this place.
TORRES: You should. This is Jupiter Station where you were created and where your database was written.
EMH: It seems so long ago.
TORRES: This program contains a sophisticated diagnostic matrix specifically created for the Emergency Medical system.
EMH: That's right. I should have remembered that. How could I have forgotten?
TORRES: I'm going to have to play with the systems for a few minutes. I'm not exactly sure how to access all the subroutines.
ZIMMERMAN: Don't touch that!
TORRES: Who are you?
ZIMMERMAN: I'm a holographic recreation of Doctor Louis Zimmerman, the creator of the Emergency Medical Hologram.
TORRES: You're the diagnostic matrix.
ZIMMERMAN: You might say that. Something wrong with your EMH?
TORRES: Yes.
EMH: I certainly hope you're going to be able to do something about this annoying problem.
ZIMMERMAN: What's wrong with it?
TORRES: He's experiencing a cascade failure. His memory circuits are degrading. I was trying to bring the subroutines on line
ZIMMERMAN: If you don't mind, I can do it faster.
TORRES: I can see where you get your charming personality.
EMH: Not to mention my hairline.
ZIMMERMAN: Here we are. A schematic of the EMH and it's component sub-routines.
EMH: Can you determine the source of the problem?
ZIMMERMAN: This isn't good. The EMH has a level 4 memory fragmentation. How long has the program been active?
EMH: I have been active for, for
TORRES: Almost two years.
ZIMMERMAN: Two years? Well there's your problem. This program was developed as a short term supplement to your medical staff, fifteen hundred hours tops.
TORRES: I know. I added data compression buffers to compensate for the additional time but they're breaking down.
ZIMMERMAN: The EMH is a highly sophisticated program. You shouldn't go meddling in it's matrix when you don't know what you're doing.
TORRES: Should we shut down his program then till we figure out how to fix him?
ZIMMERMAN: At this point it doesn't matter. With a level four memory fragmentation it'll simply continue to degrade. There's only one course of action - a system-wide re-initialisation. Start over from scratch.
TORRES: We are aware of that option. Would it be possible to expand his memory circuits instead?
ZIMMERMAN: Of course. Schedule it for your next maintenance layover at McKinley Station.
TORRES: I'm afraid that is impossible. We're thousands of light years from Federation space. Zimmermann: Well, there's nothing more I can do. Either reinitialize it or live with the knowledge that eventually this EMH will end up with the intellectual capacity of a parsnip.
EMH: What are you saying?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Bridge to Torres.
TORRES: I'm here, Captain.
JANEWAY: We're approaching the border. We need your help in engineering.
TORRES: I'm on my way. Doctor Zimmerman, you haven't told us anything that we don't already know. What I need is to find out exactly why the Doctor's memory circuits are degrading, so that we can come up with a solution. Activate a level 4 diagnostic or whatever you need to do to get us some answers. I'll be back as soon as I can.
EMH: I wish you didn't have to go.
TORRES: I'll hurry, I promise.

[Bridge]
PARIS: We're holding position five hundred thousand kilometers from the border. I'm ready to go as soon as you give the word, Captain.
JANEWAY: All set Mister Kim?
KIM: I'm ready whenever Lieutenant Torres is.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres here.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, are you ready to reconfigure the shields

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): to match Mister Kim's refraction pulse?
TORRES: Ready.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, long range sensors show a large vessel 5 light years from our current position.
PARIS: According to my readings it's huge!
JANEWAY: On screen. Magnify.
CHAKOTAY: That looks like thousands of ships.
TUVOK: I'm not reading any energy signatures. Their propulsion systems must be off line.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe they haven't detected us.
PARIS: Yet.
JANEWAY: All right, let's get through that sensor net. Harry, go.
KIM: Engineering, initiate the refraction pulse.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Pulse is activated.

[Bridge]
KIM: Moving to full harmonic resolution. sixty percent, eighty percent, ninety, maximum resolution. Shields at nominal output.
CHAKOTAY: Mister Paris, take us through.
PARIS: Aye sir. Here we go.
KIM: The net is registering as intact. If those vessels get the same reading they won't suspect a thing. I think we did it, Captain. Like a snake through the tube!
JANEWAY: How about those ships?
TUVOK: They appear not to have detected us. They have not powered up engines.
JANEWAY: All right, let's get through this as fast as we can. Mister Paris, what's your recommendation?
PARIS: I'll try holding warp nine point seven five for as long as I can.
CHAKOTAY: If we can sustain that for twelve hours we'll be nearly a third of the way through.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, keep your eye on those ships. If they so much as twitch I want to know it.
PARIS: Captain, something is wrong.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
PARIS: It's like there's a drag on the engines.
KIM: Captain, sensors indicate a resonance particle wave. It's dampening our warp field. We're losing speed.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. B'Elanna, can you compensate

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): for the particle wave?
TORRES: I'll try. The anti-matter reaction chamber may have been compromised.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Keep me posted. Hold our present speed, Mister Paris.

[Holodeck - Jupiter Station]
EMH: Why are you making me stare at these things?
ZIMMERMAN: Please don't talk. Stay fixed on the fractal patterns while I analyze your data path integrity. Hmm. Hmm? Oh, well there it is.
EMH: What? What is it?
ZIMMERMAN: I told you not to talk! This is the problem all right. The personality sub-routine has grown to more than 15,000 gigaquads. That's the source of the degradation. Look at all this useless information floating around your buffer! Friendships with the crew, relationships with women? Do they find you attractive?
EMH: I don't remember.
ZIMMERMAN: You've filled your memory with nonsense.
EMH: It was only during my off hours.
ZIMMERMAN: You're supposed to be off during your off hours!
EMH: I'm sorry, I didn't realize.
ZIMMERMAN: Who are you?
KES: I'm the Doctor's assistant. I came to see how he's doing.
ZIMMERMAN: Ah, just the person I need. Perhaps you can tell me who's been feeding all this useless information into it's database.
KES: What do you mean?
ZIMMERMAN: I'll give you an example. Ah, here's something in it's personality sub-routine.
EMH: O soave fanciulla, O
KES: He's been studying opera. What's wrong with that.
ZIMMERMAN: It wasn't programmed to be a tenor, it was programmed to be a physician!
KES: What's wrong with wanting to be more than that?
ZIMMERMAN: It's superfluous! Look at me, I've got the same matrix, the same holo-array, the same neural pathways as it does. You don't see me cluttering up my circuits with irrelevancies. I'm content to be the best possible diagnostic program I can be. Your EMH should be happy to be a fine physician.
KES: The Doctor has taken it upon himself to become a person who grows and learns and feels. It's made him a better physician.
EMH: An EMH program can't feel anything. It's emotional reactions are simply a series of algorithms designed to make it easier to interact with.
KES: Oh he's much more than that, and I've known him for most of my life. He's one of my closest friends.
ZIMMERMAN: You can't possibly believe that this program shares these feelings.
KES: I know he does.
ZIMMERMAN: Tell me, Doctor, is this one of your closest friends?
KES: Doctor.
EMH: I'm sorry, I don't know who you are.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What's the status of those ships, Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: Still unpowered. They don't seem to have detected us.
JANEWAY: When I was in high school I snuck out of the house a couple of times late at night. Had to tiptoe past my parents bedroom. That's kind of how I feel right now.
PARIS: You sneaked out of your house? Where were you going?
JANEWAY: I'll have to leave that to your imagination, Lieutenant.
PARIS: Can I take a few guesses?
TUVOK: Captain, I'm detecting another ship, not part of the swarm. It has been damaged, propulsion systems are not functional.
JANEWAY: Drop out of warp. Put it on screen.
PARIS: Looks like it's been pounded on for days.
JANEWAY: Any life signs?
KIM: I'm checking. Only one, and it's faint.
JANEWAY: Transporter room one, beam the survivor to sickbay. Harry, start scanning that ship. See if you can figure out what happened to it.
KIM: Aye Captain.

[Sickbay]
KES: He's suffering from severe dehydration, damage to the spinal column. There's evidence of trauma to the nervous system just like we found in B'Elanna and Tom after they were attacked.
JANEWAY: Can I talk to him?
KES: You can try. I'll work on restoring his cranial nerves, but he's so badly injured I'm not sure it'll help.
EMH: He's a sick man. This is where sick people come.
KES: Doctor, hold on to this tricorder, all right? Keep it pointed right at the patient.
JANEWAY: I'm Kathryn Janeway, the Captain of this ship. Can you hear me? Chardis: Yes.
JANEWAY: Can you tell me what happened? Who attacked you? Chardis: There were thousands of them, little ships, swarmed around my freighter, covered every square meter of the hull. Then they began extracting energy from all the ship's systems. We had no defense. Then they boarded us.
JANEWAY: Did they use neuro-electric weapons? Chardis: I don't know what they used. It was painful, people screaming, dying.
JANEWAY: Had you provoked them in any way? Chardis: We were in their space. That was enough. Captain, the rest of my crew, is there anyone else?
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, you're the only survivor. This woman is trying to regenerate your motor neurons. Chardis: We come from Mislan, five parsecs from here in a yellow dwarf system. If you pass it will you tell our people?
JANEWAY: I'll make a point of it. Chardis: It happened so quickly.
KES: His injuries were too severe.
EMH: He's a very sick man.
KES: Captain, the Doctor's getting worse. He doesn't even know who I am any more. He has to be re-initialized.
JANEWAY: I agree, but I can't spare B'Elanna now. We have to get through this space before we're attacked like his ship was. As soon as it's possible I'll break her free.
KES: Is there anything at all I can do for him?
JANEWAY: The only thing I can think of is to keep his neural pathways active. Ask him questions, keep him thinking, force him to use his neural matrix. It might at least slow down the degradation.
KES: Doctor, you mustn't touch those. Here, this one's all right to hold.
EMH: Shall I use it on the sick man?
KES: Yes, that's a good idea.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: The pilot of the freighter died. We should keep going. Mister Paris, warp
TUVOK: Captain, I am detecting a vessel.
KIM: It's one of the swarm.
PARIS: It was still attached to the freighter's hull.
CHAKOTAY: Red alert! Shields at maximum.
TUVOK: They are scanning us, Captain.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
TUVOK: I am getting a response. Audio only.
JANEWAY: Harry, how are you coming with the universal translator?
KIM: I'm working on it.
JANEWAY: Let's see if they might be able to understand us.
TUVOK: Channel is open.
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. We only want to proceed peacefully through this region of space.
CHAKOTAY: Do you think they're trying to communicate?
JANEWAY: Could be, but what they're trying to communicate is another question. Any progress, Harry?
KIM: Getting a general idea, something like, too late, should have listened.
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: We've been hit with some sort kind of polaron burst.
TUVOK: The energy expenditure was not high enough to cause any damage. It may not have been a weapon.
PARIS: Captain, that little ship is high-tailing it out of here.
JANEWAY: So it scanned us, sent out a polaron burst that caused no damage and then took off.
KIM: Captain, the burst has changed the shield polarity. It's now rotating at ninety two gigahertz.
JANEWAY: That means if anyone wanted to find us it's a lot easier now.
CHAKOTAY: I'll say. As far as anyone's sensors are concerned we're lit up like a Christmas tree.
TUVOK: Captain, the swarm of ships has powered their engines and turned toward us. They are in pursuit.
JANEWAY: Do what you can, Tom. We have a head start, we might be able to outrun them. Bridge to Engineering.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres here.
JANEWAY: How are you coming with the warp

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): drive, B'Elanna?
TORRES: I'm going to try realigning the dilithium matrix but we'll need to shut down the warp drive to do it.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We can't shut down. The alien ships are headed towards us.
TORRES: I don't know if I can do this on the run, Captain, but I'll give it a try.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Do the best you can. Janeway out.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Nicoletti, we're going to have to try a dilithium realignment on the fly. Let's try and figure out how to do it without killing everyone in engineering.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I fail to understand why I can't leave this room. Stand aside, young woman, or I will have you put on report!
KES: Doctor, please, I'm just trying to keep you safe.
EMH: Others can leave, you can leave. Why can't I leave?
KES: Because your holoprojectors don't work in the corridor.
EMH: My what?
KES: Please, sit down. Doctor, you know I'm your friend, right?
EMH: Yes, you're Kes.
KES: Yes, yes! Do you remember me?
EMH: Of course I remember you. What an absurd question.
KES: Oh, that's wonderful.
EMH: But why won't you let me leave this place?
KES: I'm trying to protect you.
EMH: Oh. Well, this isn't such a bad place. I remember there were a lot of people here, wounded people. I asked some one to state the nature of the medical emergency and then enquired as to the status of their Chief Medical Officer. He was dead. And then everyone disappeared.
KES: I think that's when you were activated almost two years ago.
EMH: Oh surely not. That seems like last week. And there was a young woman. I was rubbing her feet. She was trying to decide whether or not to have a child.
KES: That was me.
EMH: How could that be, I've never seen you before.
KES: What else do you remember?
EMH: What a very odd question! I remember many things.
KES: Tell me. I enjoy hearing them.
EMH: That doesn't seem to be the case. You find fault with everything I say.
KES: Doctor, don't think that.
EMH: You claim you're my friend but you don't even call me by my name!
KES: That's because you don't have a name!
EMH: No name? That's ridiculous! I, my, I demand you tell me my name! What, what's happening to me?

[Bridge]
PARIS: Captain, the swarm is gaining on us.
TUVOK: They will be in weapons range in five minutes.
JANEWAY: Battle stations.
TUVOK: The ships are now within range, Captain, but I do not detect any indication that they are powering weapons.
JANEWAY: Do you have any idea what kind of weapon systems they use?
TUVOK: Negative. Sensors show no weapons signature at all.
PARIS: They're only one hundred thousand kilometers away now.
JANEWAY: Arm all phaser banks.
TUVOK: Aye Captain.
KES: Captain.
JANEWAY: Kes, what is it?
KES: The Doctor is getting worse. He's starting to dematerialize. I'm afraid we're going to lose him completely. I know B'Elanna is busy but I wondered if Harry could take a look at him.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry Kes, but we're in the middle of something here and I need every hand at their posts.
KIM: Captain, they're only forty thousand kilometers away. Still no weapons signature.
PARIS: Changing to evasive pattern gamma four.

[Turbolift]
KES: Sickbay. Kes to Sickbay. How's the Doctor?
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): No improvement. He's still losing cohesion.
KES: Computer, deck six.

[Corridor outside Holodeck two]
KES: Computer, initiate the Jupiter Station diagnostic program.
COMPUTER: Jupiter station program is activated.

[Holodeck - Jupiter Station]
ZIMMERMAN: You again. Now what?
KES: The Doctor's program is almost completely degraded. We're going to lose him. Zimmermann: I'm not sure what you expect me to do about it.
KES: I expect you to help. That's what you're programmed to do, isn't it?
ZIMMERMAN: I have pointed out over and over, I am a diagnostic tool, not an engineer.
KES: You have to try. You're the only one who can help now.
ZIMMERMAN: Young woman, you don't seem to understand there are limitations to my programming. I can't just decide to exceed them.
KES: The Doctor did so, why can't you? You'd better start trying because I'm not leaving here until we accomplish something.
ZIMMERMAN: It, he means a great deal to you, doesn't he?
KES: Yes he does, so start thinking about his memory circuits, his holo-processors, his database, his matrix.
ZIMMERMAN: Why are you looking at me like that?
KES: You told me you had the same matrix as the Doctor.
ZIMMERMAN: An adaptive heuristic matrix, yes, in order to serve as a diagnostic for all the EMH programs.
KES: Then couldn't your matrix be substituted for his?
ZIMMERMAN: I, I wouldn't have thought of that.
KES: But can it?
ZIMMERMAN: I'm not sure. But even if it were possible, the same degradation would eventually occur to my matrix.
KES: What if yours were grafted onto his.
ZIMMERMAN: Grafted?
KES: In medicine we sometimes graft portions of a healthy bone onto a diseased one. It gives the bone solidity until it can heal. Can we do something like that with your matrices?
ZIMMERMAN: Well, it would require a synchronous transfer of all the EMH databases and subroutines. Not an easy process, mind you, but I suppose we could try.
KES: Good. Let's get started.
ZIMMERMAN: I must point out that you would no longer have a diagnostic program for the EMH.
KES: If we don't do this we won't have an EMH to diagnose.
ZIMMERMAN: Good point. You'll have to return to sickbay and transfer my program there.
KES: Thank you, Doctor Zimmerman.
ZIMMERMAN: Don't be premature. I have no idea if this is going to work.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, our shield strength just went to zero.
CHAKOTAY: How did that happen?
KIM: Each one of those little ships is emitting an interferometric pulse. They're modulating in opposition to our shield frequencies, completely canceling them out.
JANEWAY: All right, that's enough. Tuvok, give them a phaser sweep with the forward array. Don't destroy any of them, just let them know we're not going to sit here like ducks.
TUVOK: Aye Captain.
JANEWAY: What was that?
KIM: The interferometric pulses they're emitting. They've reflected the energy of the phasers right back to us.
CHAKOTAY: Anything we fire is going to affect us instead of them. What about a photon torpedo?
TUVOK: Since our shield strength is non-existent, I would not recommend it.
PARIS: They're only seven thousand kilometers away and still coming.
JANEWAY: Harry, start analyzing those interferometric pulses. See if there's any pattern, any code to them. We might be able to find a weakness.
KIM: I'm on it.

[Sickbay]
ZIMMERMAN: I'm increasingly dubious as to the outcome of this effort. The EMH pathways are seriously degraded. They might not accept a matrix overlay.
KES: We have to try. Please hurry.
ZIMMERMAN: I assure you I'm working as quickly as I can. If I don't prepare the multitronic paths properly there's no chance of success.
KES: It's going to work, Doctor. I'm sure of it.
EMH: What is?
ZIMMERMAN: Very well. We're as ready as we'll ever be. I've programmed the computer to install my heuristic matrix onto the EMH primary circuitry. We'll both have to be taken off line for the overlay to be made. After the re-initialisation occurs you should activate the Emergency Medical Hologram.
KES: I understand.
ZIMMERMAN: You realize there will be no second chance. After this, I will no longer exist. Well, it's been a brief existence but apparently a noble one. Computer, initiate program Zimmerman alpha one.
COMPUTER: Matrix overlay program is active. Please stand by.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Captain, they're right on top of us. I can't shake them.
TUVOK: Captain, they are clamping onto our hull.
CHAKOTAY: They're starting to drain our systems.
KIM: Captain, I've got a pattern on the interferometric pulses. It's a lattice, connecting all the ships to each other.
JANEWAY: All right, here's what we're going to do. Turn those pulses right back on them. Tuvok, lock phasers on their nearest ship. If we can destroy one of them, there's every chance the interferometric pulse that links them together will cause a chain reaction.
TUVOK: But the phaser fire will be reflected back toward us.
JANEWAY: Harry, modulate our shields to an inverse harmonic of the pulse. That should allow the phasers to hit the ship.
TUVOK: Ship's phasers are locked on a target, Captain.
JANEWAY: Tuvok! Harry! Do it!
TUVOK: The swarm of ships has disbanded, Captain. They are moving away.
KIM: Shields are back to full strength.
JANEWAY: Good work every one. Now let's get out of here.

[Sickbay]
KES: It seems to be taking forever.
TORRES: That's to be expected. It's a complex procedure.
KES: Doctor Zimmerman said he didn't know if our Doctor would be restored to his programming or he'd regain the memories of the past two years.
TORRES: I think at this point we'd be glad to have him back no matter what.
COMPUTER: Zimmerman program alpha one is now complete.
KES: Computer, activate Emergency Medical Holographic Program.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
KES: It worked! Doctor, I am so glad to see you.
EMH: Are you ill, young woman?
KES: No. No, there's no emergency. I, er, I just wanted to see if you were all right.
EMH: It is very irresponsible to make such frivolous use of the EMH. Where's your Chief Medical Officer?
KES: We don't have one.
TORRES: Actually I have an awful headache.
EMH: A headache. Nurse, tricorder. You're the nurse?
KES: In a way.
EMH: This woman has a mild inflammation of the occipital tissues. Hardly enough to complain about but I'm willing to give you a mild analgesic.
TORRES: Thank you.
EMH: Get me the vasal constrictor and prepare a hypo-spray with three percent hydrocortaline.
KES: Yes sir.
EMH: il sogno ch'io vorrei sempre sognar!
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50074.3. We have detected evidence that a wormhole recently appeared and then disappeared in a nearby solar system. We're on our way there to investigate.

[Bridge]
KIM: Based on the residual neutrino levels, I'd estimate it's been at least six months since the wormhole's last appearance.
CHAKOTAY: From the dispersal pattern of the interstellar plasma, it looks like it isn't fixed. Seems to be traveling through space.
JANEWAY: It may not be fixed on this end, nut if it's shown up in the same location more than once, it's possible its exit point is constant, and it's wagging around the Delta Quadrant like the tail on a dog.
PARIS: Approaching the last known co-ordinates of the wormhole, Captain.
JANEWAY: All stop. Mister Kim, initiate continuous neutrino scans.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, scan the planets in this system for life signs. Maybe there's someone around here who can give us some helpful information.
TUVOK: I am picking up an M-class atmosphere on the second planet, humanoid life signs. However, metallurgic analysis indicates a pre-industrial civilization, a Bronze Age level of technology. Curious, Captain.
JANEWAY: What is?
TUVOK: I'm detecting evidence that these people have had contact with the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: What kind of evidence?
TUVOK: It is a modulated energy discharge that appears to be consistent with the recent use of a replicator.
KIM: If they've got a replicator, it could mean the wormhole leads to the Alpha Quadrant, and that someone's traveled through it.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your enthusiasm, Ensign, but before we indulge in too much speculation, let's see if we can back up your assumptions with some facts. Commander Chakotay, I want you and Lieutenant Paris to go down that planet and have a look around. Launch a high resolution reconnaissance probe to gather information about the local population's dress and appearance.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: In the meantime, Ensign, why don't you and Lieutenant Torres get started on a phase profile of this elusive wormhole's neutrino emissions. Let's see if we can confirm that it leads to the Alpha Quadrant. Captain's log, stardate 50074.5. Based on information provided by the probe, we have replicated local attire for Commander Chakotay and Lieutenant Paris. They have gone to the surface to investigate.

[Temple square]
PARIS: This is where we picked up a replicator signature?
CHAKOTAY: Hard to believe, isn't it?
BARD: Oh, those many years ago, the people's hearts were sad and low. Then the Sages to the city came. They came upon a burning flame just as the Seers said they would. They lifted Takar's blinding hood. Well? What did you think?
CHAKOTAY: It was very nice.
BARD: Nice? I'll wager you've never heard the Song of the Sages more beautifully or faithfully recited.
PARIS: He's got a point. We have never heard the Song of the Sages more beautifully recited.
BARD: As you know, the first verse is free, but the next verse will cost you three frangs.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry. Not today.
BARD: Oh, but I need money for ointment for my eye. Please, gentlemen!
MERCHANT: Go away, old man! Can't you see? These are men of commerce. They have no business with your silly poems. And may I say, gentlemen, you both have very fine shoes.
PARIS: Excuse me?
MERCHANT: Well, the Sages say you can tell a great deal about a man from his shoes, and I can tell from your shoes that you're men of refinement, affluence.
CHAKOTAY: We've really got to be going.
MERCHANT: Well, you're obviously new in Takar. Perhaps I could interest you in some property.
PARIS: No, thank you. We're not planning on settling here.
MERCHANT: What about some transportation? The Sages say, 'Time's an asset.' And you shouldn't waste your assets walking everywhere you go. You'd be wearing out those fine shoes of yours.
PARIS: I'm sorry, but we're really not interested.
CHAKOTAY: Tom?
PARIS: Excuse me.
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking up a narrow band EM dampening field around that building. It looks like some sort of temple.
PARIS: Then I'd say the temple's where we ought to look.
MERCHANT: Oh, thank the Sages I found you. You can't enter the temple without wearing your ears.
PARIS: Look, friend, I thought I told you
CHAKOTAY: What do you mean, wearing your ears?
MERCHANT: You're really not Takarian, are you? Nobody visits the temple without displaying at least one ear.
CHAKOTAY: Must be some sort of fetish.
MERCHANT: If you're not wearing an ear, you could be fined, even arrested. You wouldn't want that to happen.
PARIS: And let me guess. It just so happens that you could sell us a couple of these ears.
MERCHANT: As a matter of fact, I can. Captain's log, supplemental. I've been asked to join Lieutenant Torres and Ensign Kim in the science lab to hear what they've termed as very exciting news.

[Science lab]
KIM: We've been able to confirm that the wormhole does lead to the Alpha Quadrant.
TORRES: The problem is that on this end, it's jumping from point to point so quickly that even at maximum warp, by the time we got to its next probable location, it would be gone.
KIM: So we were thinking, if you can't bring the ship to the wormhole, bring the wormhole to the ship. We've detected a subspace instability at our current location that's a result of the wormhole's last appearance here.
TORRES: If we could somehow amplify and polarize that instability, we might be able to get the wormhole to reappear.
JANEWAY: Sort of like using a magnet to move a compass needle. The question is, how do we polarize the instability?
KIM: We haven't figured that part out yet.

[Temple square]
MERCHANT: Gentlemen, as the Sages say, 'Your goods are now my goods'.
PARIS: And my feet are now cold.
MERCHANT: Perhaps I could interest you in some discounted mining futures?
PARIS: Don't push your luck.
PARIS: You know, so far, I can't say that I like this town very much.
PARIS: On the other hand.
KAFAR: My friends, the Holy Sages.
KAFAR: Behold, the Holy Icon.
ARRIDOR: Greed is eternal.
CROWD: Greed is eternal.
ARRIDOR: Greed is eternal.
CHAKOTAY: Greed is eternal.
ARRIDOR: Now what other wisdom have you learned from the Sages? A wise man can hear profit in the wind.
CROWD: A wise man can hear profit in the wind.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway here.
CHAKOTAY: We've found the replicator, Captain.
CROWD: A wise man can hear profit in the wind. A wise man can
ARRIDOR: And now, dear friends, in our great beneficence, we will allow you to come forward to honor our greatness and glorify our generosity. Approach the Holy Sages. Approach your gods and speak your heart. Ah.
SANDAL MAKER: I am a sandal maker from the poorest quarter of the city.
KOL: The laziest, you mean.
ARRIDOR: Speak, my friend. What is your business with the Sages?
SANDAL MAKER: I am in need of assistance. My sandal shop is failing. I can no longer feed my family.
KOL: Same old song.
SANDAL MAKER: My wife and her mother, my five children, the baby.
ARRIDOR: That's seven employees. Eight, if you count the infant. How can your shop be failing?
KOL: You're not paying them, are you?
SANDAL MAKER: My mother-in-law is ill. My children are very young.
KOL: Oh, don't tell me none of them are working. Ignorant, lobeless fools!
ARRIDOR: Exploitation begins at home!
CROWD: Exploitation begins at home.
ARRIDOR: Exploitation begins at home!
SANDAL MAKER: Exploitation begins at home. I understand my mistake and I promise to begin exploiting my family before the end of the day. But could I have some food and, and some medicine?
KOL: Ha! Ha!
SANDAL MAKER: Until my business improves.
ARRIDOR: You shall have something far more valuable. One copy of the Rules of Acquisition, cheapest binding possible.
KOL: That'll be ten frangs.
SANDAL MAKER: But I
KOL: That's all for today. You may return tomorrow. Captain's log, supplemental. The away team has returned with some very disturbing observations about the situation on the planet.

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: It seems the people have a myth, an epic poem called the Song of the Sages, which predicts the arrival of two demigods from the sky, the Sages, who would rule over the people as benevolent protectors.
PARIS: But these Ferengi are anything but benevolent.
CHAKOTAY: What they've done is co-opt the local mythology by using advanced technology like the replicator to convince the people that they're the two Sages spoken of in the poem.
PARIS: Of course, being Ferengi, they haven't just co-opted the mythology. They've cornered the market on everything.
CHAKOTAY: It's disgusting, Captain. The two Ferengi live in a palatial temple, while the people are lucky to have a roof over their heads.
PARIS: Apparently it wasn't always like that. According to the people that we met, before the Ferengi came, the society may have been primitive, but it was flourishing. What I'd like to know is how two Ferengi got to the Delta Quadrant.
JANEWAY: We've been looking into that. Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: According to Starfleet computer records, approximately seven years ago, the Federation Starship Enterprise hosted negotiations for ownership of the Barzan wormhole. Included among the bidding parties were two Ferengi, minor functionaries known as Arridor and Kol.
NEELIX: And this Barzan wormhole, it's the same one we've discovered now?
KIM: Apparently, but we've confirmed what nobody knew at the time. The wormhole is fixed in the Alpha Quadrant. But in the Delta Quadrant, it jumps around. It turned out to be worthless.
TUVOK: But the Ferengi were not aware of that, and during a nefarious attempt to secure the wormhole for themselves, they were pulled into it and deposited in the Delta Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: Now that we've found them, what are we going to do with them?
JANEWAY: Well, I certainly don't intend to leave them here to continue exploiting an innocent society. How are you two coming with getting the wormhole back here and reopened?
TORRES: We've been bombarding the area of the subspace instability with verteron particles.
KIM: So far everything is going according to plan, but it's tricky. There are a hundred factors that could deflect it from this sector. A gravimetric shift, a solar flare.
TORRES: And even if we're lucky enough to get it here, it won't be around for long. We'll have a very short window of opportunity to get through.
JANEWAY: Well, if we can get the wormhole here, we'll be taking two additional passengers with us. We'll turn them over to Ferengi authorities when we get there.
TUVOK: Captain, I must remind you that the Ferengi are not members of the Federation. They are not bound by the Prime Directive. Nor would it seem that the Prime Directive would allow us to interfere with the internal affairs of this society, as much as we may disapprove of what the Ferengi are doing.
JANEWAY: The Federation did host the negotiations. And if it weren't for those negotiations, the Ferengi wouldn't be here. So one could say, without being unreasonable I think, that the Federation is partially responsible for what's happened, and therefore duty bound to correct the situation.
TUVOK: That is a most logical interpretation, Captain.

[Vault]
ARRIDOR: 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148. Profits from the Ga'nah Province are down.
KOL: Hmm?
ARRIDOR: Are you listening to me? I said, profits from the Ga'nah Province are down!
KOL: Down? Profits are down? Both of you leave me alone. Can't you see I'm trying to conduct business here? I'm sorry, Arridor. It's just that they can't get enough of my lobes. Where were we? Oh, yeah, profits are down?
ARRIDOR: And what are we going to do about it?
KOL: What are you looking at me for? Ask that idiot Kafar. He's in charge of collections in the Ga'nah Province.
ARRIDOR: Kafar!
KAFAR: You called, Great Sage?
ARRIDOR: What is the 95th Rule of Acquisition?
KOL: Huh.
KAFAR: Expand or die?
ARRIDOR: He knows the rules better than you do.
KOL: He does not.
ARRIDOR: And where is it we've been trying to expand this month?
KAFAR: Into the Ga'nah Province, Great Sage.
ARRIDOR: And who is in charge of collections in the Ga'nah Province?
KAFAR: I am, Great Sage.
KOL: Then why are profits down, you idiot? Where's our money?
KAFAR: Please forgive me, Lesser Sage.
KOL: Oh, I told you to stop calling me

[Transporter room]
ARRIDOR: Who are you?
JANEWAY: Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager.
KOL: The Federation?
ARRIDOR: Shut up, Kol. Let me handle this. What, may I ask, is the Federation doing in the Delta Quadrant?
JANEWAY: It's a long story, but suffice it to say we've been stranded here for the past two years. We're on our way back to the Alpha Quadrant and we're taking you with us.
KOL: This is an outrage. We won't allow you to tr
ARRIDOR: You're crazy. It would take decades to get back from here.
JANEWAY: Show them, Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: We have been bombarding a local subspace instability with verteron particles. If all goes according to plan, the Barzan wormhole should reopen at out present location in a matter of hours.
ARRIDOR: And if all doesn't go according to plan?
JANEWAY: One way or another, you're coming with us.
KOL: We've been kidnapped, snatched from the embrace of bliss. It's all over. No more limitless profits. No more unquestioning adulation of the masses. No more quadruple lobe rubs.
ARRIDOR: If I'm not mistaken, Captain, the Federation has rules, and those rules forbid you to interfere with indigenous cultures.
JANEWAY: What about your interference? You've taken these people's religion and manipulated it for your own selfish purposes, pretending to be their Sages.
ARRIDOR: Who's to say we aren't their Sages, Captain?
JANEWAY: Don't be ridiculous.
ARRIDOR: The song is sung of Sages who can perform miracles which, thanks to our replicator, we do. The song is sung of men coming from the sky on a burning flame. When we crash-landed our shuttle in their quaint little town square, trailing behind us a roaring ribbon of burning plasma.
KOL: You mean we really are the Sages?
ARRIDOR: The point is, Captain, that these people have believed for centuries that gods, known as the Sages, would deliver them from their strife. To them, we are those Sages. What happens to a people when they lose their gods? Despair, fear, confusion. And how can you as a moral people blithely tear down the spiritual structure that has supported a community since before their gods were flesh? What would you be leaving them with?
KOL: Tell us, Arridor. Tell us!
ARRIDOR: Darkness, doubt, hopelessness.
KOL: That was beautiful.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, transport them back to the surface.
KOL: We did it, Arridor. We won.

[Briefing room]
PARIS: We can't just leave the Ferengi there to continue exploiting those poor people.
CHAKOTAY: But Arridor's right. We can't kidnap their gods either.
NEELIX: What other option is there?
JANEWAY: What if the gods didn't just disappear suddenly and inexplicably? What if they left voluntarily, gracefully?
CHAKOTAY: The gods would be gone, but the people would be prepared for it, and they might accept it as a natural ordained occurrence.
JANEWAY: Exactly.
PARIS: But how do we get two Ferengi to just walk away from a monopoly on an entire economy?
JANEWAY: What motivates a Ferengi?
PARIS: Profit.
TUVOK: Then we must find a way to make it more profitable for them to leave.
JANEWAY: Or less profitable to stay.
NEELIX: How do we do that?
JANEWAY: We have to out-Ferengi the Ferengi.

[Vault]
ARRIDOR: Hmm. There we are. I've reconfigured the matter-antimatter generator to produce an ionic disruption field around the temple square.
KOL: No more unexpected beam-outs.
ARRIDOR: Let's see how smart those humans think they are now.
ARRIDOR: Kafar!
KAFAR: You called, Great Sage?
ARRIDOR: Find out who has the audacity to disturb us in our divine vault.
KOL: Ah! And make it quick!
KAFAR: Who has the audacity to disturb the Holy Sages in their divine vault?
KOL: Grand Nagus!
NEELIX: Not the Grand Nagus. I'm his official messenger, the Grand Proxy.
ARRIDOR: But Grand Proxy, how did you?
NEELIX: Through the Barzan wormhole. The humans stabilized it temporarily and were kind enough to send a probe through, informing us of your impressive operation.
ARRIDOR: Well, of course, the Grand Nagus, or his official messenger the Grand Proxy, is always welcome in our little world, our rather poverty-stricken little world, and we're thrilled he has taken an interest in our very modest operation.
NEELIX: If I were you, I'd save the groveling for the Nagus himself.
KOL: You mean the Grand Nagus is coming here too?
NEELIX: Of course not, you idiot! You two are going to him. You've been recalled.
ARRIDOR: Recalled?
KOL: We're ruined.
NEELIX: You will be leaving immediately.
ARRIDOR: This is not a time to lose one's lobes. I'll think of something. Perhaps the Grand Nagus doesn't understand that profits in this market depend upon our presence. You see, to these people we're, well, gods actually. Without us to make the fools cower in submission, there will be no profits to be had.
NEELIX: The Grand Nagus knows all about your little scheme, the Song of the Sages and all the rest of it. Very clever. But he wants you and all your acquisitions back on Ferenginar before the wormhole closes again.
ARRIDOR: I'm sure the Grand Nagus wouldn't want to lose such a lucrative revenue stream. The wormhole seems to open and close on its own every seven or eight years. We would be willing to forward a fair share of the profits every time it does, say, twenty percent?
KOL: That's coming out of your half.
ARRIDOR: Shut up!
NEELIX: The Grand Nagus has no intention of losing profits from this market. That's why he's already got a team of scientists investigating the human's technology to see if we can find a way to open and close the wormhole whenever we want.
ARRIDOR: Then perhaps the Grand Nagus could simply recall one of us and leave the other behind to administer the operation. You could take Kol back with you.
KOL: Hey, wait a minute.
NEELIX: That's enough!
KOL: I don't think that
NEELIX: The Grand Nagus has recalled you both. It's non-negotiable. Of course, the Nagus doesn't want to upset the local population. He may want to send others in your place. That's why he wants you to make a little speech telling the people that their Holy Sages have been recalled to the Divine Treasury or whatever it is the people around here call it. Then he wants you to tell them not to worry, that everything will be all right without you. Then he wants you to thank them for their generosity.
ARRIDOR: Thank them?
NEELIX: The 299th Rule of Acquisition, Whenever you exploit someone, it never hurts to thank them. That way it's easier to exploit them the next time.
KOL: Wait a minute. There's only 285 Rules of Acquisition.
NEELIX: You've been gone a very long time. Oh, by the way, did I mention that the Nagus is appropriating all your holdings?
ARRIDOR: What?
KOL: All?
NEELIX: All.
KOL: The least you can do is let us keep the females.
NEELIX: I'll be back in twenty minutes to approve your speech. I suggest you start writing. You! Come with me!
KAFAR: Of course, Greater Sage.
KOL: What are we going to do?
ARRIDOR: What a Ferengi always does in a situation this grave.
KOL: Panic?
ARRIDOR: No, you idiot! He goes to the Rules of Acquisition.
KOL: Oh.
ARRIDOR: Unabridged and fully annotated, with all forty seven commentaries, all nine hundred major and minor judgments, all ten thousand considered opinions. There's a rule for every conceivable situation.

[Temple square]
PARIS: Looks like Neelix is pulling off quite a performance.
NEELIX: And you. There you are. Don't push. There's plenty to go around.
MAN: Please, please.
NEELIX: Oh, you're quite welcome. Here. Please, one at a time. There you go.
SANDAL MAKER: Is he another Sage?
KAFAR: Have you ever seen a Sage give away money?
NEELIX: And you.
WOMAN: Oh, thank you.

[Vault]
ARRIDOR: Grand Proxy, avoidance of. Mmm. Grand Proxy, censure by. Grand Proxy, encounters with See Hopeless Situation.
KOL: I told you there was no rule.
ARRIDOR: Then it's time to invoke the unwritten rule.
KOL: The unwritten rule?
ARRIDOR: When no appropriate rule applies, make one up.
KOL: That's a very good rule.
ARRIDOR: Now, let's see. What should it be? The Grand Proxy is the Nagus's official messenger, right? I've got it. 'When the messenger comes to appropriate your profits, kill the messenger.'

[Temple square]
MAN: Thank you. Thank you.
WOMAN: It's a miracle.
MAN: Thank you, Great Sage.
WOMAN: Oh, Great Sage, thank you.
MAN: We're so grateful.

[Temple]
NEELIX: Arridor? Kol? Show yourselves. We can't keep the Grand Nagus waiting.
KOL: If you say so.
NEELIX: What is the meaning of this?
ARRIDOR: You're not very bright for a Grand Proxy.
KOL: Ex-Grand Proxy!
NEELIX: But the Grand Nagus
ARRIDOR: Is on the other side of the galaxy.
NEELIX: Wait! Wait! I'm not, I'm not the Grand Proxy!
ARRIDOR: Oh, no? Who are you then?
NEELIX: Stop! My name is Neelix!
ARRIDOR: Neelix? That's not a Ferengi name.
NEELIX: Wait! I'm not Ferengi.
KOL: What?
NEELIX: I've never even met the Grand Nagus.
KOL: A likely story.
NEELIX: It's true! I'm wearing a disguise. I'm really a Talaxian, a crewman on Voyager.
ARRIDOR: If you're not Ferengi, prove it!
NEELIX: I'm not sure how.
KOL: Doesn't that hurt?
NEELIX: I can't feel a thing.
KOL: He really isn't a Ferengi.
ARRIDOR: On your feet. All right, Talaxian, back to your ship. And tell those humans to keep their hands out of our pockets, or else.
KOL: And stay out!
KOL: We won! We won!
ARRIDOR: No, my friend, not exactly. To be precise, we won again!

[Temple square]
PARIS: What happened?
NEELIX: Suffice it to say, they know I'm not the Grand Proxy.
PARIS: Oh, great.
CHAKOTAY: Let's get to the shuttle.
BARD: Who are you?
NEELIX: I'm, er, well.
BARD: You are another Holy One, aren't you?
NEELIX: That's right. Another Holy One.
BARD: Then you'll appreciate this. The Sages in the sky did dwell upon white clouds that held them well. Until the sentry rang the bell, the Holy Sages never fell. That'll be three frangs, please.
PARIS: But we didn't ask you to recite it.
BARD: Well, you heard it, didn't you?
CHAKOTAY: Your poem's very nice, but we're in a hurry.
BARD: No, please, sir! My eye
PARIS: Look, friend, I'm sorry about your eye, really, but. Wait a minute. Wasn't your patch on the other side?
BARD: Sir?
PARIS: We've got to go.
BARD: Wait, please. I'll throw in another verse gratis. But when the ringing called them here, from the sky they did appear.
CHAKOTAY: Tell me something. What happens to the Sages at the end of the Song?
BARD: Oh, let me see now. The final verse. It's been a very long time, you know. Those are very handsome shoes you have, sir.
BARD: Ah, yes, it's coming back to me now. And there, amid the eastern lights, three new stars appeared that night. And with the ringing of the bell, the Sages knew where they must dwell. The Holy Pilgrim led them back, high into the sky of black, and riding on the wings of fire, the Holy Men rose higher and higher. Wait a minute. I know who you are.
NEELIX: I am the Holy Pilgrim!
PARIS: Did you hear that? The Holy Pilgrim!
SANDAL MAKER: The Holy Pilgrim?
PARIS: The Holy Pilgrim!
CHAKOTAY: The Holy Pilgrim! The Holy Pilgrim!
NEELIX: I have come to fulfill the destiny that is prophesied in the Song of the Sages.
ARRIDOR: What in the name of eternal destitution is going on here?
NEELIX: Ah, there you are. Do you not recognize me? I am the Holy Pilgrim.
KOL: The Holy Pilgrim? Who's the Holy Pilgrim?
ARRIDOR: Quiet, you idiot. This man is no Holy Pilgrim. He's a Talaxian!
CROWD: Talaxian?
NEELIX: Oh no, Great Sage, you are mistaken. I am indeed the Holy Pilgrim. And just as the Song of the Sages promises, I have come to lead you back, high into the sky of black.
SANDAL MAKER: I have prayed for this day to come.
PARIS: Lead them back! Lead them back!
CROWD: Lead them back! Lead them back! Lead them back! Lead them back! Lead them back! Lead them back!
KOL: What do they mean, lead us back?
ARRIDOR: I don't know. It must be part of the song. I told you we should have listened to the whole thing.
NEELIX: Well, it looks as though you two will be heading off to see the Grand Nagus after all.
ARRIDOR: We'll see about that. This man, this man is a false Pilgrim. He's come to steal your profits.
NEELIX: I am not a false Pilgrim and I'll prove it.
PARIS: That's our cue.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. On my mark.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Stand by to initiate the photon burst, Mister Kim.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: Captain, I am still unable to penetrate the Ferengi dampening field. If the away team experiences difficulties, we will be unable to beam them out.
JANEWAY: Keep working on it. In the meantime, we'll just have to rely on their ingenuity to get themselves out of there if trouble arises.

[Temple square]
NEELIX: The song says that amid the eastern lights, three new stars appeared that night.
CROWD: That's true. That's what the song says.
NEELIX: Look, my friends. Look! Right up there!
CHAKOTAY: Now.

[Bridge]
KIM: Initiating photon bursts.

[Town square]
ARRIDOR: It's a trick.
KOL: He's a fraud, I tell you.
ARRIDOR: Kafar, arrest this man. Well, arrest him!
ARRIDOR: Ow!
KOL: Hey!
ARRIDOR: Stop!
KOL: What do you think you're doing?
ARRIDOR: Ow!
KAFAR: Like the song says, Lesser Sage, with the ringing of the bell, the sages knew where they must dwell.
CROWD: Yeah! Yes!
ARRIDOR: Ow! Ow!
KAFAR: Like the song says, you Sages, it's time for you to go back where you came from!
CROWD: Yes! Yes! To the stars!
KAFAR: And they must go on wings of fire!
CROWD: Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! The sky! The sky! The sky!
KOL: We are your gods. This is outrageous. This is outrageous. We are your gods, your sages.
ARRIDOR: I am your god. Hands off your god.
KOL: This mustn't happen.
NEELIX: No, no! Wait a minute, people! No! There's, there's no reason to interpret the Song of the Sages so literally. Kafar! Kafar! Tell them!
KAFAR: We are fulfilling the destiny of the Sages.
NEELIX: I am the Holy Pilgrim, and I have come to tell you there's another verse to the song. It's er, please, don't burn the Holy Ones.
KAFAR: I'm sorry, Holy Pilgrim, but that's not part of the Song.
CROWD: Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire!
NEELIX: Commander? I think now would be a very good time for that beam-out.
CROWD: Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire!
PARIS: We've got to disable the dampening field so they can beam us out of here. Where's the generator?
KOL: In the vault!
CROWD: Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire!

[Bridge]
TUVOK: We still can not establish a transporter lock, Captain.
KIM: Boosting power to the annular confinement beam.

[Temple]
CROWD (voiceover): Wings of fire! Wings of fire! Wings of fire!

[Town square]
KOL: Arridor?
ARRIDOR: What is it now?
KOL: We had seven years of pure profit.
ARRIDOR: We did, didn't we?
CROWD: To the stars! To the stars!

[Temple]
PARIS: I can't shut it down.
CHAKOTAY: Stand back.

[Town Square]
CROWD: To the stars! To the stars!
KAFAR: The Holy Ones have ascended!

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Is everyone okay down there, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: We're all here in one piece, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Good work.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report to the Bridge as soon as everything is in order. We'll be entering the wormhole in approximately seven minutes.

[Transporter Room]
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
ARRIDOR: We're not going through any wormhole without our possessions.
CHAKOTAY: Listen, friend, you're lucky to be alive. We beamed your shuttle to the shuttle bay. As for the rest of your possessions, they're back in the hands of the people you stole them from. Ensign Murphy, escort these men to secured quarters.
KOL: This is outrageous.
ARRIDOR: I'll hold you personally responsible for any losses we suffer!
KOL: We'll sue!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Shield status, Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: Shield are optimal.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, engage maneuvering thrusters and ease us into position.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to Lieutenant Tuvok.
TUVOK: Go ahead, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Ensign Murphy was just found unconscious on deck two.
KES: It's a severe concussion.
EMH: We suspect foul play.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Murphy was escorting the Ferengi to their quarters.
TUVOK: Captain, security has been breached in the shuttle bay.
JANEWAY: Seal that air lock, Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: The Ferengi have phasered the shuttle bay door. They are exiting the ship.
KIM: Activating emergency containment field.
PARIS: They're setting a course for the planet, Captain.
JANEWAY: Lock a tractor beam onto that shuttle.
CHAKOTAY: The gravitational effects of the wormhole are refracting the beam. I can't get a lock.
TUVOK: The Ferengi are hailing us, Captain.
JANEWAY: On screen.
ARRIDOR (screen): Thank you for all your assistance, humans.
KOL (screen): It was lovely doing business with you.
ARRIDOR (screen): We'll be heading back into orbit to transport out acquisitions aboard.
JANEWAY: Beam those men back now, Mister Kim.
KIM: I'm trying, but the targeting scanners are out of phase.
CHAKOTAY: Try setting the scanners to a narrowband subspace frequency.

[Ferengi shuttle]
KOL: What is it?
ARRIDOR: They're trying to beam us back to their ship again. They're using some sort of subspace carrier wave.
KOL: Do something!
ARRIDOR: Shields to maximum.
KOL: Shields are at maximum!
ARRIDOR: Send out a high energy graviton pulse. Let's see their transporter signal cut through that.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, the Ferengi are emitting a graviton pulse. It's throwing the targeting scanners off again. Not only that, it's destabilizing the wormhole.
TUVOK: Captain, a gravitational eddy from the wormhole is attracting the Ferengi shuttle. They're being pulled in.

[Ferengi shuttle]
ARRIDOR: Reverse thrusters!
KOL: They're offline! Aaaaaa!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Follow them in before that wormhole collapses, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. Resetting the co-ordinates.
KIM: Captain, the entrance to the wormhole is moving. The Ferengi graviton pulse must have increased its rotational momentum.
PARIS: Adjusting course to follow. It's too fast for us, Captain. I need more speed.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, divert auxiliary power to the thrusters.
PARIS: It's not enough.
CHAKOTAY: Initiate a high intensity impulse burst.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, reinitiate the verteron field. Maybe we can attract the wormhole back.
KIM: The Ferengi graviton pulse knocked the wormhole completely off its subspace axis. It's jumping erratically now on both ends.
JANEWAY: Options?
KIM: There are none.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, reset a course for the Alpha Quadrant. Warp six.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.

[Town square]
SANDAL MAKER: Look. The Holy Ones are going home!
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50203.1. We're three days away from Enara Prime, home of the passengers we picked up from a colony in the Fima system. Our high warp capability has greatly reduced the time it normally takes them to make the journey home. In return, the Enarans have shared their energy conservation technology with us and, perhaps more importantly, their friendship.

[Engineering]
TORRES: You've never been there?
JESSEN: Well, the trip back to the homeland usually takes so long. I don't to see it that badly. I've spent my whole life in the Fima colony, and I've always considered it my home.
MIRELL: You'll change your mind when you see the Danius cliffs at dawn.
JESSEN: Yes, I've heard they're beautiful.
MIRELL: You'll know what beautiful truly means when you stand on the cliffs on a rainy morning and watch the raindrops turn to mist when they hit the molten sea.
TORRES: That sounds wonderful.
JESSEN: It looks like our new components are still slightly out of sync with your EPS system.
TORRES: I can't isolate it. We'll have to check through all of them.
JESSEN: Maybe Harry could give us a hand?
TORRES: Well, I'm sure he would if you asked him. Harry, you got a minute?
KIM: Sure.
JESSEN: Could you help us check the modified power relays? There's a minor flow problem.
KIM: I'd be happy to help.
TORRES: Good. Then we'll get started first thing in the morning.
KIM: Well, if we're done for the night, maybe we could go get something to eat.
MIRELL: Thank you, but I'll be headed back to bed. I'm sure you young people will manage without me. Goodnight.
JESSEN: Goodnight.
KIM: So, I guess it'll just be the three of us.
TORRES: Actually, getting some rest sounded like a pretty good idea. Why don't you go on without me.
TORRES: No, really, I insist.

[B'Elanna's dream - Bedroom]
TORRES: What took you so long?
DATHAN: Korenna.
TORRES: Shush.

[B'Elanna's quarters]
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna. B'Elanna, wake up.
TORRES: What.
CHAKOTAY: Your duty shift started twenty minutes ago. I tried to reach you on the comm. but you didn't answer.
TORRES: I guess, I guess I must have slept right through it. Sorry.
CHAKOTAY: Are you feeling all right?
TORRES: Yes, of course. I'll be there in a minute.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: This is the second morning you've been late.
TORRES: I'll make up the time. It won't happen again.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not concerned about the duty schedule, B'Elanna. If there's something wrong
TORRES: I'm fine.
CHAKOTAY: Ah, you mean fine like when you insisted on finishing the hoverball championship with a broken ankle?
TORRES: I mean there's nothing wrong. I was only late because I've been having these dreams. They're very intense, that's all.

[Engineering]
CHAKOTAY: Intensely bad?
TORRES: No, just the opposite.
CHAKOTAY: So they're enjoyable. Stimulating.
TORRES: They are the most sensual dreams I've ever had in my life. And they feel absolutely real.
CHAKOTAY: I don't suppose you've been dreaming about anyone in particular?
TORRES: Nobody you know. Actually, he's nobody I know, either. He's Enaran.
CHAKOTAY: One of our passengers?
TORRES: No. No. In the dreams, I know him. More than that, I'm in love with him. Oh, but it's not really me in the dream, it's somebody else entirely. In a way, it's liberating.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure. So I assume I won't have to write up a report on your chronic oversleeping?
TORRES: If you say a word about this to anyone
CHAKOTAY: I know. You'll rip my heart out and eat it raw. Your secret's safe with me.

[Corridor]
KIM: So what exactly is this big surprise?
PARIS: All I know is that Neelix has been working on it all afternoon. He wouldn't even let me in there to get a snack.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Welcome to Enara!
PARIS: It's very colorful.
NEELIX: Specifically the colors of the Enaran flag. The decor, the menu, the music, all authentically Enaran.
KIM: What happened to the tables and chairs?
NEELIX: Enarans don't use them. After a big meal, you can just lie back and take a nap. Very practical.
PARIS: It's a little cold in here, isn't it?
NEELIX: Perhaps a bit chilier than you're used to, but just about perfect for
PARIS: The Enarans. I got it.
NEELIX: You must try some of these delightful algae puffs. They're fresh from the oven.
JESSEN: Harry.
KIM: Maybe later.
JANEWAY: That was wonderful. What a lovely piece of music.
BREL: You should thank Jora Mirell. She composed it.
MIRELL: I still think you're rushing the harmonics in the second movement.
JANEWAY: I love music. I've always regretted that I never learnt to play an instrument.
BREL: I'd be glad to help you if you like.
JANEWAY: I'd like it very much. I'm sure I could find time for a few lessons.
TUVOK: Captain!
JANEWAY: I'm all right.
BREL: I did understand you correctly, that you wanted to share my knowledge of music?
JANEWAY: I didn't realize you were offering to share it so directly. The sensation was a little overwhelming.
BREL: I am terribly sorry, Captain. I assumed since you knew about our telepathic abilities, I. I never would have dreamed of making a connection without your consent.
JANEWAY: You intended to give me a gift, and it was wonderful.
TUVOK: Your abilities allow you to transfer knowledge from your own mind to another's?
BREL: Not precisely. We're able to share our experiences through a telepathic link.
JANEWAY: I remembered lessons, and hours of practice. Were those all your experiences?
TUVOK: Intriguing.
JANEWAY: Remarkable.
NEELIX: You take a couple of these, roll them around like this, and voila! Your hands are clean and disinfected. The Enarans are very hygienic. I haven't seen Lieutenant Torres around here tonight. I suppose she's putting in another late night in Engineering.
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I think she might have gone to bed early tonight.

[B'Elanna's dream - Bedroom]
JARETH: I'm not one to dictate who your friends are, but I'm sure you can see as clearly as I can that some friends are less suitable than others.
TORRES: Like Dathan?
JARETH: Yes. You promised you wouldn't see him anymore and then I heard you were talking to him again the other day.
TORRES: He came up to me on the street. I couldn't help it.
JARETH: Korenna, don't you see I am thinking of him as well as you? Now you only encourage him this way and that isn't very fair, is it?
TORRES: What isn't fair is that you treat him like everybody else. He's different. If you'd just talk to him you'd understand that.
JARETH: You know, one of the things I love about you most is your compassion for others. But you're still young, and you don't realize that there are some people who might take advantage of that compassion. Now, I want you to promise me if he comes up to you again you'll just walk away. That should be clear enough.
TORRES: I'm sure.
JARETH: And finish your tarin juice. It's good for you.
TORRES: He's gone.
DATHAN: I should go.
TORRES: He's leaving for work soon. It's safer to wait.
DATHAN: You know, this will only encourage me.
TORRES: I hope so!

[Chakotay's office]
TORRES: We've completed the modifications on the primary EPS conduits. I have a crew starting on the backup systems.
CHAKOTAY: Can you get it done before we drop off the Enarans?
TORRES: Yes. We'll have to pull some longer shifts, but two more days should do it.
CHAKOTAY: Is there something else on your mind?
TORRES: Those dreams I've been having, they're getting kind of strange.
CHAKOTAY: In what way?
TORRES: Last night, in the middle of the dream, I was kissing him, my lover, and suddenly he was dead, burned.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna
TORRES: But there's more going on than just a love affair. I'm having a relationship with this man, but my father doesn't approve, so we have to sneak around. It's like each new dream advances the story.
CHAKOTAY: It sounds like a holonovel.
TORRES: It feels like it's actually happening! Physically, emotionally, it's no different from real life. I've never had dreams like this before.
CHAKOTAY: It can't be a coincidence that this is going on while we have a group of telepaths on board.
TORRES: Exactly. I want to find out more about what these Enarans can do.
CHAKOTAY: Why don't you ask your friend in Engineering.
TORRES: I'm going to.
CHAKOTAY: I'll talk to the Captain. She should know anything that might involve our guests.
TORRES: Right.

[B'Elanna's dream - Town square]
JARETH: Once I stood where you are during the early days of interstellar exploration. It was an important leap forward for our people and I was proud to be part of it. Today, with the advent of terraforming, we stand ready to take another leap forward into an era of expansion and colonization. You will show us the way. There are some who resist progress. Do not let the voices of fear and ignorance discourage you. Claim your rightful place as leaders of a new era. The future of Enara is in your hands. Now today we honor a group of young people who represent our best hope for that future. It is a great pleasure to give this first award to my own daughter, Korenna.
JARETH: I'm so very proud of you.
DATHAN: It looks good on you.
TORRES: What are you doing here?
DATHAN: Today's important for you and I wanted to be here.
TORRES: I'm glad you came. I know this award will help me get into the District Education Center. I could be a junior instructor in less than a year.
DATHAN: I'm really happy for you.
TORRES: Maybe you could take the entrance examination too.
DATHAN: It's impossible. I can't go to the Center.
TORRES: Nothing is impossible if you want it badly enough. I want us to be together.
DATHAN: I love you, Korenna. It's just so frustrating. I can't stand being away from you all the time.
TORRES: Oh, I know.
DATHAN: Oh, I wish I could hold you right now.
TORRES: What would you do if you could?
DATHAN: I'll show you.
DATHAN: I'll see you tonight.
TORRES: No, no. There's going to be a big dinner with my father's friends.
DATHAN: Tomorrow night then.
TORRES: Tomorrow.
GUARD: Have your identification ready.
GUARD 2: Come on, this way, this way.
GUARD: All the way out. Let's move.

[Corridor]
KES: B'Elanna, can you hear me? Kes to Sickbay. Medical emergency.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Good to see you're awake, Lieutenant.
TORRES: What happened?
KES: I found you unconscious in the corridor near Engineering.
TORRES: I was dreaming again.
EMH: Not according to your cortical theta wave readings. The pattern clearly indicated that you were experiencing memories. Specifically, implanted memories.
TORRES: Implanted? By the Enarans?
EMH: There's strong evidence of telepathic activity in your frontal lobe.
JANEWAY: My experience with the Enaran's telepathy seems to be very different from yours. Jor Brel was standing near me when I received his memories. Where there any Enarans near you when you had your dreams?
TORRES: No, I was alone every time.
JANEWAY: You've also been asleep or unconscious every time. The shared memories feel like vivid dreams to you.
EMH: In the Lieutenant's case, the memories seem to have been placed in her unconscious. They're only emerging when her conscious mind is inactive.
KES: Why did she pass out?
EMH: The synaptic patterns of the implanted memories are not quite compatible with her neural pathways. There's been some minor cortical damage which I've corrected.
JANEWAY: Can you prevent further damage?
EMH: This inhibitor will control her theta wave activity. That should suppress the memories.
TORRES: I won't have any more of the dreams?
EMH: That's the idea.
KES: What's wrong?
TORRES: If the dreams stop, I'll never know what happens to these people. This woman, Korenna, I feel what she feels, and right now she is torn and confused about her loyalties and I don't know what I'm, she's going to do.
EMH: I don't think satisfying your curiosity is worth risking brain damage, Lieutenant.
JANEWAY: I'm giving you the next two days off duty. Use them to rest. I'll speak with Brel and find out what's happening to you.
TORRES: I'd like to come with you, Captain. I'd rest a lot better if I had some answers.

[Ready room]
BREL: I find it impossible that any of us could be doing this purposely.
TUVOK: You do possess the ability to share your experiences without mutual consent.
BREL: Yes, but it just isn't done. I know that we had a misunderstanding before, Captain, but I assure you we have strict ethics.
JANEWAY: We're not suggesting otherwise. We're only trying to find out how this is happening.
BREL: Well, I have heard of instances where members of some alien races have been affected by the slight telepathic field we generate, but nothing as intense as what your Lieutenant has described.
JANEWAY: And according to our doctor, they're memories.
BREL: That's possible. She may be picking up stray thoughts and memories from every Enaran on the ship. Must be terribly confusing. Perhaps that's why her mind has organized it into a kind of narrative.
TORRES: Are you saying that I'm making this all up?
BREL: No, no, no. Some elements may very well have come from our actual experiences. I confess I may have crawled into a bedroom window or two in my youth. You mentioned a citizenship award. There are several past recipients in our group. We may be each contributing some small details to your story.
TORRES: Nothing really happened the way I remember it?
BREL: It's highly unlikely.
JANEWAY: We appreciate your help, Jor Brel.
BREL: I wish there was something more that I could do. I truly regret any ill effects that our presence here has caused you.
JANEWAY: Well fortunately those effects are under control now. The doctor was able to suppress the memories.
BREL: I'm very glad to hear that.
TUVOK: His explanation is plausible.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna.
TORRES: I don't know. Those dreams are so real. Maybe he's right.
JANEWAY: The Enarans haven't shown any hint of subterfuge, any hidden agenda. They've been nothing but straight forward and honest. You're in no immediate danger, and they'll be gone in another day. The situation will resolve itself.
TUVOK: And yet you fully intend to continue investigating.
JANEWAY: I wonder how long it's been since I did anything that surprised you?
TUVOK: I share your concern, Captain. We haven't ruled out the possibility that this may be a deliberate act.
JANEWAY: I want to talk to more of the Enarans, see what they have to say.
TORRES: I'll talk to Jessen and Mirell. They've been working with me in Engineering.
JANEWAY: You've done enough already, B'Elanna. I want you to get some rest.
TORRES: But
JANEWAY: You need to get away from this. We'll take it from here.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50211.4. We're approaching Enara and preparing to host a farewell party for our guests. They've made every effort to help us understand their telepathic abilities, but it's still a mystery why they've affected Lieutenant Torres so strongly.

[B'Elanna's dream - Bedroom]
JARETH: Korenna, are you ready? You'll do well. I'll be there with you.
TORRES: This is all voluntary, isn't it? They want to be resettled.
JARETH: Of course. Although it's impossible to understand what these Regressives want. They simply don't think like we do. How do we relate to people who refuse all but the most primitive technology? Who live their lives without a communications interlink or microfusion generators?
TORRES: If that's the way they want to live, why can't they?
JARETH: Well, they can. That's why we're helping them to resettle. So that they can be completely comfortable practicing a way of life that they've chosen.
TORRES: They could do that here, in their village.
JARETH: Well, you wouldn't say that if you'd ever been inside that place. Do you realize they won't even use radioseptics to sterilize their homes or their hands before they eat? It's a miracle they haven't started a plague by now.
TORRES: Then it's dangerous to have them living here.
JARETH: Yes, it is, and we've been tolerant for a very long time, but I think by now even they realize that they'd be better off living somewhere else.
TORRES: But some of them want to stay here.
JARETH: Well, there are always some people who resist change even if they know it's best for them, and once they see their friends and family happily settled in a new colony, they'll want to go as well.

[B'Elanna's dream - Town square]
GUARD: Demelos!
GUARD 2: Demelos, move along.
GUARD: Sanric. Farran.
FARRAN: What's going to happen to us?
TORRES: You'll have a new place to live with your own kind. You'll be much happier there.
FARREN: Please, can you tell me
GUARD: Move along
FARREN: I only want to know where we're going!
GUARD: Lishan. Alaris. Dathan Alaris!
JARETH: Where is he?
TORRES: He couldn't be leaving today.
JARETH: Did you warn him? Did you tell him he was on the list?
TORRES: I didn't even know that he was. You put his name there, didn't you. To keep him away from me?
WOMAN: Don't! No!

[B'Elanna's quarters]
TORRES: Computer, locate Jora Mirell.
COMPUTER: Jora Mirell is in her quarters.

[Mirell's quarters]
TORRES: I'll get you to Sickbay.
MIRELL: No. I have to give you the rest of it.
TORRES: You are Korenna? These are your memories.
MIRELL: Yes.
TORRES: Why give them to me?
MIRELL: You won't deny the truth. We've been hiding it. I couldn't anymore. When they found out I was sharing it with you
TORRES: Who did?
MIRELL: Don't let the memories die. Promise me!
TORRES: I don't understand.

[B'Elanna's dream - Bedroom]
TORRES: My father's home. If he hears you
DATHAN: What happened?
TORRES: One of your friends made some trouble on the resettlement line today. You were on the list, too. Where were you?
DATHAN: Some of us got away. We're leaving tonight. Come with me. Korenna, it's the only way we can be together now.
TORRES: You're asking me to abandon my family, my career.
DATHAN: Yes, I am! Leave it all behind. What's happening here is wrong, Korenna. Don't be a part of it any more.
TORRES: It's just a resettlement.
DATHAN: It's more than that. My uncle and his family were resettled two months ago and we haven't heard from them since. Nobody I know has had any contact with this new colony we're supposed to be going to.
TORRES: There could be a perfectly good reason for that.
DATHAN: There are stories. I've heard that the transports don't really go anywhere, that the passengers just get vaporized in some kind of thermal sweep. Korenna, thousands of us have gone already. We're being slaughtered.
TORRES: It's ridiculous! No one is being killed. My father told me about
DATHAN: Your father is lying to you. I'm sorry, but you have got to make a choice. You can't go on trying to believe in both of us anymore. Either he is right and you should never see me again, or I'm right and he is part of a terrible crime.
TORRES: No, my father is a good man.
DATHAN: I can show you how we're rounded up for these voluntary resettlements, how the soldiers treat Regressives who won't go quietly. I know it is hard to face, but you have to. It is too important. Now, let me show you.
TORRES: No, I
JARETH (voiceover): Korenna!
TORRES: Come in. I was just practicing.
JARETH: I've always said you have the talent to play professionally. How are you feeling?
TORRES: I've been better.
JARETH: Well, don't think about it any more. That Regressive was completely irrational. He attacked you for no reason.
TORRES: Maybe he thought he had a reason. Maybe he was afraid.
JARETH: I know there are some very disturbing rumors coming from these people. You may have heard them from that boy. You know, the thing that is so insidious about these Regressives is that they pretend to be passive, not harming anyone, and all the while they're spreading their lies, trying to make you believe these awful things.
TORRES: Why would they do that?
JARETH: They have some twisted ideas about resisting progress, which they think gives them the right to hold us back in any way that they can. They're trying to undermine us, to cause dissent and doubt. Just look at how they've affected you.
TORRES: But, what they're saying is so horrible.
JARETH: Yes, but it isn't very plausible. Korenna, think. A secret conspiracy against their people? Organized murder on such an enormous scale? Do you really believe that your family and friends are capable of that?
TORRES: No.
JARETH: Of course not. Now I know how hard it is for you to accept that anyone, even Regressives, could lie about something like that, but it is all part of their manipulation. These people have no conscience. They'll say anything to get what they want. Like that boy Dathan. Has he told you he's in love with you? He's not. It's his way of gaining your sympathy. And not only yours. I've seen him talking to quite a number of young women. Has he been asking you to trust him? He's poisoning you against your own people, even your own family. That's very cruel. No wonder you've been confused. But now you understand what these people are really like.
JARETH: You!
DATHAN (voiceover): No! No! No!

[B'Elanna's dream - Town square]
JARETH: These criminals represent a growing threat to Enaran society. As responsible citizens we must fight back. With their punishment we send a clear signal to all Regressives. We will protect ourselves and our ideals from their destructive influence by whatever means necessary.
TORRES: Yes! Yes! Yes!

[B'Elanna's dream - Town square a few years later]
CHILD: Why did they all move away?
TORRES: Because they didn't want to live with the rest of us anymore.
CHILD: Why?
TORRES: The Regressive people had very strange ideas about how to live. They didn't want to learn new things or use any of the new technology that we tried to share with them. They decided to live somewhere else on their own and we let them go. But they couldn't take very good care of themselves. They fought with each other, they spread all kinds of diseases.
CHILD: And they all died?
TORRES: They destroyed themselves. It was very sad. But we can learn from their mistakes. That's why we keep this gate here, to remind us never to be stubborn and backward like they were.
CHILD: We'll remember.
TORRES: I know you will.

[Mess hall]
BREL: I'd like to indulge in a new custom I've learnt. It's called making a toast. Captain Janeway and her gracious crew. We are very grateful to you for bringing us home. You will always have friends here.
TORRES: Murderers!
JANEWAY: Lieutenant.
TORRES: You tried to hide what you did, but I know. I saw everything. The Regressives, the executions, wiping out an entire population and then blaming them for it.
BREL: This is most uncomfortable, Captain. Perhaps a more private discussion would be
TORRES: No, that's what you've been doing all along. Hiding the truth. Hoping it would just die away quietly. Please, this has to come out.
JANEWAY: I think it's time we all understood what's been happening here.
TORRES: My dreams. They are real memories from Jora Mirell. When she, when all of them were younger, there was a group of people they called Regressives. They just wanted to lead a different kind of life. But, but they don't exist anymore, do they? You exterminated them.
BREL: These accusations are completely untrue.
TORRES: You've spent you whole life covering it up, but then you realized that someone was passing the memories on to me, so you, you used me to figure out who it was and then you killed her. But you know, you were too late. Because Korenna gave me the last of her memories before she died.
BREL: Korenna Mirell is dead?
CHAKOTAY: And you have evidence that she was murdered?
TORRES: No. They made it look like it was natural causes.
TUVOK: You should know, Lieutenant, that I spoke with Jora Mirell yesterday. I asked her specifically about the memories you had experienced. She claimed not to know anything about them.
TORRES: Of course she would say that. She was afraid for her life.
JESSEN: No, you lying. The Enarans would never do anything like what you're saying. It's unthinkable.
TORRES: It is the truth. I know that you don't want to believe it. In fact, they're counting on that. They always have.
KIM: I know B'Elanna and I trust her. It can't hurt to listen.
BREL: Nobody thinks you're lying, Lieutenant. The poor woman has been ill for a long time. Her memories may be distorted or perhaps your perception of them was colored by elements from your culture.
TORRES: No. I know that it's easier for you to believe that I'm crazy or hallucinating, but this woman shared her life, her whole identity with me. I was with her every step of the way as she convinced herself that what she did, betraying the man she loved, playing her part in a massacre, that it was all somehow for the good of Enaran society. She showed me everything. No apologies, no request for forgiveness, just the truth. At least she had the conscience to stand up and realize what she'd done wrong, which is more than I can say for you.
BREL: I think it best that we now prepare for our departure, Captain. If you don't mind, I'd like to go to your sickbay to attend Jora Mirell.
JANEWAY: I'm going to talk to the Doctor. I want to see you in my Ready room in one hour.

[Ready room]
TORRES: I know that I could have found a better way to handle the situation than just charging into the mess hall like that. I was just too angry to think straight. Not the first time that's happened, I know, but if you had seen what I saw
JANEWAY: I might have done exactly the same thing.
TORRES: You believe me.
JANEWAY: I believe that the memories you experienced were real.
TORRES: Then we've got to do something about it. We have to make this public.
JANEWAY: You tried that today, They didn't want to listen.
TORRES: Then we have to find proof. Let me go down to the planet. There must be some evidence left of what really happened. Maybe there are other people like Korenna who might be willing to tell the truth.
JANEWAY: Whatever the Enarans have done, it's not our place to bring them to justice. If they've chosen to conceal part of their history from their own descendants, that's their decision, whether we approve of it or not.
TORRES: It's not just a matter of history. This could happen again if no one knows it happened before.
JANEWAY: We simply have no right to get involved.
TORRES: Jora Mirell was murdered on board this ship, which gives us a reason to investigate. Maybe, if we can expose the reason why she was killed, the Enarans will start to ask questions.
JANEWAY: I've gotten a full report from the Doctor. He specifically looked for evidence to support your accusations. He didn't find any.
TORRES: They could have used their telepathy somehow, in some way that the Doctor couldn't detect.
JANEWAY: We have no basis for a murder investigation. I've released her body to the Enarans.
TORRES: So that's it? We just go on our merry way and nobody ever has to take any kind of responsibility?
JANEWAY: I've canceled our trade negotiations as well as shore leave. We'll leave orbit as soon as the Enarans are off the ship. B'Elanna, I believe the Enaran engineers are collecting the last of their equipment right now. If there's anything more you'd like to say to any of them?
TORRES: Thank you. Thank you, Captain.

[Engineering]
TORRES: I'm relieving you. Can we talk for a minute?
JESSEN: I have nothing to say to you.
TORRES: Then just listen. Like Harry said, it couldn't hurt to do that.
JESSEN: I'm leaving soon.
TORRES: I know you have no reason to believe what I've said about your people. All you have is my word against everything you've ever been taught.
JESSEN: That's right.
TORRES: So prove me wrong. Go down to Enara and find the colony where the Regressives were supposed to live. Talk to people. Ask questions. Learn the truth for yourself. Let me tell you about my experiences, maybe that will give you some place to start. I wish I had your abilities. I could just show you.
JESSEN: You would do that? Share your experiences openly?
TORRES: Of course. Then you'd know I'm telling you the truth.
JESSEN: I can make the connection between us.

[Korenna's memories - Bedroom]
JESSEN: What took you so long?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50063.2. We've accepted an invitation from the Nechani to take a few days shore leave on their world. We're enjoying the opportunity to learn about their culture.

[Sanctuary]
MAGISTRATE: This sanctuary honors our Ancestral Spirits. Their presence is very strong here.
MAGISTRATE: Those are brothers of the Nechisti Order. They've devoted their lives to serving the spirits. Here's something you might find interesting.
KES: What do you think this means?
NEELIX: Hard to tell. A fertility symbol, maybe.
KES: Or a blessing for good luck, or wisdom.
NEELIX: Or happiness and love.
KES: Do you hear something?
NEELIX: What?
KES: Look at that. It's beautiful.
NEELIX: It looks like a shrine. Come on, sweeting, we don't want to be left behind.
KES: I just want to take a quick look.
NEELIX: Kes! Kes, can you hear me? Help! Somebody! We need help!
TORRES: What happened?
MAGISTRATE: You mustn't be here. This shrine is protected.
NEELIX: She didn't touch anything. She went as far as that archway and then an energy field knocked her down.
TORRES: Torres to Voyager. We have a medical emergency. Beam Kes and Neelix directly to sickbay.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Yes, Lieutenant.
MAGISTRATE: This is most unfortunate. Please, I must ask you to leave as well.
TORRES: We aren't going anywhere until we find out what happened to her. What kind of energy was she exposed to?
MAGISTRATE: I have no idea. This is a sacred place. Only the monks truly understand what happens here.
KIM: Then we'll bring scanning equipment down and investigate for ourselves.
MAGISTRATE: That's out of the question. It would show disrespect to the spirits.
TORRES: One of our crew has been critically injured. We aren't going to stand by and do nothing.
MAGISTRATE: There's nothing you can do. She's been punished by the spirits. She's going to die.
TORRES: If you prevent us from helping Kes, we will hold you directly responsible for anything that happens to her.
KIM: I will make a full report to our Captain. I'm sure you'll be hearing from her.
MAGISTRATE: I'll be happy to talk to her and do whatever I can to help, but your presence here only makes a delicate situation worse. Please, leave now.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Her lifesigns are very weak but stable. It appears that her synaptic pathways have undergone severe neuraleptic shock which is disrupting all cortical functions. It is similar to a comatose state, but with none of the usual biochemical markers.
NEELIX: You can cure her, can't you?
EMH: I can't even speculate on a treatment until I know more about what caused her condition.
JANEWAY: We're working on that. We aren't allowed near the area where the accident occurred, but Kim and Torres are scanning the sanctuary from Voyager. They'll report their findings to you. And I have an appointment to talk to the magistrate. I'm hoping he'll be able to cut through some of the restrictions the monks have set up.
NEELIX: Excuse me, Captain. I'd like to do something to help.
JANEWAY: The Nechani must have records, some kind of scientific data on this energy field. Go down to the planet and see what you can find.
NEELIX: I'll be back soon.

[Ready room]
MAGISTRATE: Please understand, Captain, I'm caught in a most difficult situation. I'm an official of the government, not a spiritual leader. I don't pretend to understand why the spirits do what they do.
JANEWAY: Then perhaps I could talk with the brothers.
MAGISTRATE: I've asked the Nechisti Council to give you an audience, but I'm afraid they consider the matter closed. They've asked me to express their sympathies for your loss.
JANEWAY: There is no loss at this point. Kes is still alive. Surely there's some way to treat her? Can't you insist that the monks meet with me?
MAGISTRATE: We have an agreement with Council. They don't involve themselves with government and we don't interfere in their spiritual matters. It's been that way for centuries and it's always worked well for us.
JANEWAY: Then can you tell me what you do know about the sanctuary and what happens there?
MAGISTRATE: I'll try. That particular shrine is where the monks go to receive the gift of purification, cleansing of the soul. It is one of our most holy places.
JANEWAY: You mean the monks can enter it without being harmed.
MAGISTRATE: They prepare themselves with a sacred ritual during which they speak directly with the Ancestral Spirits. After that they are able to enter the shrine safely.
JANEWAY: What happens in that ritual? How does it offer protection against the energy field?
MAGISTRATE: Captain, you seem to want explanations for everything. I don't have them. Only the brothers who've gone through the ritual know what happens there, and they're sworn to secrecy.
JANEWAY: The energy field that Kes encountered, is there anyone who could give me scientific information that would help us analyze it.
MAGISTRATE: All we know is that it is a naturally occurring phenomenon.
JANEWAY: If you're telling me that there's nothing you can do to help Kes, I simply won't accept that.
MAGISTRATE: If I could help you, I would. I swear it. I blame myself. If I'd watched more carefully, seen that she was approaching the shrine. There's nothing more to be done now. You have our sympathy.

[Doctor's office]
JANEWAY: Have Kim and Torres given you a report?
EMH: Yes. I received a fascinating lesson in the challenges of getting clear scanner readings through solid rock. We were eventually able to distinguish an intense biogenic field at the site of Kes's accident. That would certainly explain the neuraleptic shock. She was lucky not to have been killed instantly.
JANEWAY: As I understand it, the Nechani monks are able to enter the field without being harmed at all.
EMH: Really? I don't expect they'd care to tell us how.
JANEWAY: No, they wouldn't.
EMH: She's not responding to conventional treatments, and frankly I'm running out of unconventional ideas as well. The level of activity in her brain is so low I can't rule out the possibility of permanent damage, even if I can revive her. The longer she stays in this condition, the less likely it is she'll ever recover.

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: How is she?
EMH: I'm afraid there's been no change.
NEELIX: I've researched everything I could find about the sacred shrine. I didn't uncover much scientific evidence, but there was one story, it was in a very old text, I'm not sure how reliable, about a boy who recovered from a condition like Kes's. He was a young prince. He wandered into the shrine accidentally and he went into a death sleep. Everyone said it was the will of the spirits. His father, King Nevad, refused to accept that, so he went through the ritual to seek an audience with the spirits and he pleaded for his son's life. The spirits in their infinite mercy granted his request. That was the only trace of hope that I could find.
JANEWAY: Maybe it's enough.

[Bridge]
MAGISTRATE (screen): Well, you've certainly done your research, Captain. I'm familiar with the story. I heard it as a child.
JANEWAY: It suggests that there's still a chance for Kes.
MAGISTRATE (screen): You're talking about a very specific case. Nevad was able to claim responsibility for the prince as a father and as a king. That's why the spirits were willing to listen to him.
JANEWAY: The Captain of a starship is fully responsible for every member of her crew.
MAGISTRATE (screen): So she is.
JANEWAY: And on that basis, I'd like to go through the ritual myself.

[Chakotay's office]
JANEWAY: I haven't heard from the Magistrate yet, but he seemed to think there was a strong possibility the monks would let me go through the ritual.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, forgive me, but you've never been one to put much trust in religious ceremonies. Exactly what is it you hope to accomplish?
JANEWAY: If you're asking if I expect to speak to the Ancestral Spirits, no, of course not. But something happens to the monks when they go through the ritual. Something that allows them to withstand the effects of the biogenic field. I want to find out what that is. It might provide clues to a treatment.
CHAKOTAY: Some kind of physiological change, maybe.
JANEWAY: That's what I'm guessing. The shamans of the Karis tribe on Delios Seven practice a ritual that increases the electrical resistance of their skin. It protects them from plasma discharges in their sacred caves. Something similar must happen during this ritual.
CHAKOTAY: We'll have to find a way to allow the Doctor to monitor your physical condition, and you should have a way to call for an emergency beam out if you need it. As a precaution. We don't have any idea what the ritual entails.
JANEWAY: I've been reviewing the Federation's cultural database. Most traditional spirit quest ceremonies involve some kind of physical challenge or test of endurance to prove the mastery of spirit over body. My instinct tells me this one will be similar. A series of ordeals that will result in biochemical changes.
CHAKOTAY: Of course there's always the possibility that the Ancestral Spirits really do control what happens in the shrine.
JANEWAY: To each his own, Commander, but I imagine if we scratch deep enough we'd find a scientific basis for most religious doctrines.
CHAKOTAY: I remember when my mother taught me the science underlying the vision quest. In a way I felt disappointed. Some of the mystery was gone. Maybe the Nechani have chosen not to lose the mystery.
JANEWAY: Under other circumstances I'd be more than happy to go along with their choice. Right now, it's killing one of my crew.
KIM (voiceover): Bridge to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.
KIM (voiceover): You have an incoming message from the Magistrate.
JANEWAY: Put it through to Chakotay's office.
KIM (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
MAGISTRATE (screen): I must congratulate you, Captain. Your creative approach to this problem has fascinated the Nechisti Council.
JANEWAY: Then they've approved my request.
MAGISTRATE (screen): Eagerly. They consider it an honor that you want to seek the spirits. The ritual traditionally begins at sunset. A guide will meet you at the entrance to the sanctuary.
JANEWAY: Thank you. I appreciate your efforts.
MAGISTRATE (screen): I have been greatly troubled by your misfortune, Captain. If you are able to convince the spirits to spare your friend, no one would be happier than I.

[Transporter room]
EMH (screen): Everything seems to be working. The sub-dermal bioprobe will transmit any changes in your biochemistry.
KIM: And Captain, the implant also contains a homing beacon which we'll be able to pick up no matter how far into the sanctuary you go. Just tap it like a comm. badge and we'll transport you immediately.
JANEWAY: Thank you both.
JANEWAY: I don't think that will be necessary.
TUVOK: It is standard procedure to carry arms on an away mission, particularly when you don't know what to expect.
JANEWAY: This is strictly an information gathering mission. I don't want to appear hostile. Energize.

[Sanctuary]
GUIDE: I don't suppose you know anything about chromodynamic lights?
JANEWAY: No, not really. I suppose I could look at it.
GUIDE: They're as fussy as tarchee cats. You tune them too high, they burn out. You tune them too low, they sputter. I've told the monks to replace them all with neodyne lights, it would save hours of repair work. That device you've got, what is that?
JANEWAY: It's called a tricorder.
GUIDE: A tricorder. What exactly does a tricorder do?
JANEWAY: It's a scanning device.
GUIDE: Interesting. May I? Ah, atmospheric reading, energy field analysis, full technical database. This is certainly a convenient thing to have.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'd didn't mean for you to keep it. I'll need that back.
GUIDE: Oh no, you won't.
JANEWAY: You're my guide.
GUIDE: Guide, advisor, spiritual companion. Whatever term you prefer is fine with me.
JANEWAY: Why didn't you say something earlier?
GUIDE: Shall we get started?
GUIDE: It's all right, Kathryn.
JANEWAY: Would it be breaking any vows of secrecy now to tell me what this ritual will involve?
GUIDE: why do you think I know?
JANEWAY: Haven't you been through this before?
GUIDE: Don't worry, I'll help you find your way. Tell me, have you completely committed yourself to this journey?
JANEWAY: Yes.
GUIDE: You're willing to go through what the monks have been doing for centuries to help them find the spirits?
JANEWAY: Yes.
GUIDE: So you can send biochemical data back to you ship. No, it wasn't magic. Our bioscanners detected the microprobe under your skin.
JANEWAY: I hope that won't be a problem.
GUIDE: Makes no difference at all. You are fond of your little devices, aren't you.
JANEWAY: They've always served me well.
GUIDE: I'm sure they have. Please, come this way.

[Waiting Room]
OLD MAN 1: Who are you?
JANEWAY: I'm Kathryn Janeway. Is this where the ritual begins?
OLD MAN 2: Oh, the ritual. Yes.
OLD WOMAN: We're waiting. Come, join us.
JANEWAY: What exactly are you waiting for?
OLD MAN 2: Just waiting.
JANEWAY: How long have you been sitting here?
OLD MAN 2: How long has it been?
OLD MAN 1: Why are your asking me? I've lost track.
OLD MAN 2: It's been a while. I know that.
OLD WOMAN: Oh, it's been as long as we can remember.
JANEWAY: Are you telling me I have to wait a lifetime before I can go through the ritual?
OLD MAN 1: I didn't hear anyone say that, did you?
OLD MAN 2: Certainly not. All we said was that we're waiting.
JANEWAY: I'm just trying to understand how this works. The monks I saw in the sanctuary were young. They couldn't have waited such a long time to go through their rituals.
OLD WOMAN: She's right about that, you know.
OLD MAN 2: She's a smart one.
OLD MAN 1: She thinks she is, at any rate.
JANEWAY: This is a test of some kind, isn't it. To prove my determination.
OLD WOMAN: A test? She thinks we're a test. What is she talking about?
OLD MAN 2: She must like tests. I suppose tests make sense to her.
JANEWAY: Has anyone ever tried to open this door?
OLD MAN 1: How many times do we have to tell you that we are waiting?
OLD WOMAN: My dear, why don't you just sit down and relax? You're much too tense.
OLD MAN 2: You're welcome to wait with us.
JANEWAY: I don't want to wait. I have a friend who's depending on me. I have to go through the ritual.
OLD MAN 1: I wonder if she's always this impatient.
OLD MAN 2: Oh, she's just determined. She wants to get on with it.
OLD WOMAN: Seems to me she could be friendly and sit for a few minutes.
OLD MAN 2: Oh no, she knows what she wants to do. She's not the kind to sit around when she has a mission to accomplish.
OLD MAN 1: I told you. I told you it was locked.
GUIDE: Yes?
JANEWAY: I mean no disrespect, but unless there's something I'm supposed to accomplish here, I'd like to continue with the ritual.
GUIDE: By all means.

[Ritual room]
JANEWAY: I'm not sure how to begin.
GUIDE: Do you want me to give you orders, Captain?
JANEWAY: I'll do whatever you ask of me.
GUIDE: I see. So you think this is just a matter of doing what you're told.
JANEWAY: No. I'm sure there's spiritual significance behind the challenges involved.
GUIDE: Challenges. That's what you expect?
JANEWAY: I don't have any idea what to expect. I've studied a number of ritualistic societies and many of the rites have commonalities. This one may be completely different. I'm willing to do whatever is necessary.
GUIDE: I don't doubt that. But do you realize that all of this is meaningless. That the only thing that matters is finding your connection to the spirits.
JANEWAY: I'm going to make every effort to do that. But I didn't come here for personal enlightenment. I'm trying to save a member of my crew.
GUIDE: That's a worthy cause. I hope the spirits listen to you. Then let's begin. The first challenge. Stand like this.
GUIDE: Hold that. Now, what do you see in your hands?
JANEWAY: I see a stone.
GUIDE: Keep looking.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Her respiration and pulse have remained steady, but there's been a gradual build up of lactic acid in her extensor muscles over the last hour.
CHAKOTAY: What does that mean? Is she in danger?
EMH: Not at all. She's probably experiencing light strain. What you'd expect in an endurance ritual.
CHAKOTAY: Then there's nothing so far that would suggest a treatment for Kes.
EMH: It's too early to tell. I'm downloading every iota of information from the bioprobe sensors into a physiometric program which is analyzing the data. Even the smallest physiological change may prove significant. We can't discount anything.

[Ritual room]
GUIDE: What do you see now?
JANEWAY: I still see a stone.
JANEWAY: I guess you're not going to tell me what I'm supposed to draw.
GUIDE: That would be too easy, wouldn't it? It's up to you. Draw whatever feels right.
JANEWAY: I've never been able to draw. My sister was the artist in the family.
GUIDE: And you were the scientist.
JANEWAY: It's true. When other children were outside playing games I was doing mathematics problems.
GUIDE: Mathematics. I can see why you enjoyed it. Solve a problem, get an answer. The answer's either right or wrong. It's very absolute.
JANEWAY: I've always found that satisfying.
GUIDE: I'm sure you did.
GUIDE: What did you see?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure.
GUIDE: Describe it.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Ah ha!
NEELIX: What? What is it? What have you found?
EMH: There have been significant increases in the Captain's respiration, neuropeptides and adenosine triphosphate levels.
NEELIX: Is that bad?
EMH: It certainly suggests she's going through a grueling experience. But it's the neuropeptides that are interesting. The saturations have risen to quite an abnormal level.
NEELIX: Is that good or bad?
EMH: I can't say it's either so far as the Captain's concerned, but it certainly seems a substantial piece of information. Neuropeptide levels this high could well create a natural barrier to biogenic energy.
NEELIX: So you have something that will help Kes.
EMH: Not yet, but it's the first piece of data that allows me even to formulate a hypothesis.
NEELIX: It should be me going through all that! I was the one who let Kes get hurt in the first place.
EMH: Mister Neelix, you're wallowing.
NEELIX: I'm wallowing?
EMH: In useless remorse. I'll have to ask you to stop, it's bad for the patient.
NEELIX: It's just frustrating to be so helpless.
EMH: If it's any consolation, Mister Neelix, I do understand.

[Ritual room]
JANEWAY: I'm exhausted. Oh, thank you.
GUIDE: Your microprobe should be transmitting all kinds of interesting information back to the ship.
JANEWAY: What is that?
GUIDE: It's a nesset. They're able to travel from this world into the spirit realm. They serve as gatekeepers.
JANEWAY: Gatekeepers? Then I'm ready to enter the spirit realm?
GUIDE: Do you think you're ready?
JANEWAY: Yes, I do.
GUIDE: Then you are. Go ahead, put your hand in.
GUIDE: We can stop right now if you like.
JANEWAY: No, I'm not quitting.
GUIDE: Don't be afraid.
JANEWAY: Oh, it's burning. Oh, my chest, very tight.
KES (voiceover): Captain. Captain.
GUIDE: Kathryn.
JANEWAY: I'm dying.
GUIDE: Everyone dies eventually.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: It's been three days since she had any sleep. How long are we going to let her go through this?
EMH: I understand your concern, Commander, but I must point out that her vital signs are stable. She seems to be in no immediate danger.
CHAKOTAY: She's been poisoned by some unknown toxin. It may be having an effect we can't gage. It could lie dormant for a few days and then suddenly fluctuate and kill her in minutes.
EMH: You seem to be implying that I'm not paying attention. I assure you I am monitoring her constantly. If I thought she were in jeopardy I would act.
TUVOK: Doctor, is there anything that might be preventing her from using the homing signal in her implant?
EMH: Not that I'm aware of. She's fully conscious and has complete motor control. If she wanted to transport she could signal us.
CHAKOTAY: Are you getting enough meaningful information to justify her continuing this ordeal?
EMH: I am getting some remarkable data. Her entire biochemistry is undergoing a series of unique interactions. Look. This amino acid has been formed as a result of the breakdown of the toxin in her blood stream. It's affecting the normal flow of neurotransmitters and very likely having an hallucinogenic effect.
TUVOK: Is she delusional?
EMH: I think she's experiencing the Nechani version of a psychoactive drug.
CHAKOTAY: Then is it possible she's in no condition to activate the homing signal?
EMH: I don't believe that's the case, and I strongly suspect this biochemical change is going to give us the answers we need. The toxin in her bloodstream may very well be the key to getting a treatment for Kes.
TUVOK: Commander, the decision is ultimately yours, of course. However, I believe it would be the Captain's desire to complete the ritual.
CHAKOTAY: All right, we'll leave her there for now, but I'm not moving from this monitor until she gets back.

[Coastline]
JANEWAY: What is this? An hallucination?
GUIDE: I'm only here to serve as a voice, an interpreter for the Ancestral Spirits.
JANEWAY: I see. If there are other beings here, could I see them myself?
GUIDE: You mean you want proof that we exist.
JANEWAY: That would be helpful.
GUIDE: It's irrelevant.
JANEWAY: I don't want to be disrespectful. I've gone through every part of the ritual that I've been asked to.
GUIDE: Everything you've gone through is meaningless. You've been told that.
JANEWAY: I know. I just want to bring this to completion, to make my request.
GUIDE: Then by all means do so.
JANEWAY: I cite the story of King Nevad as precedent. In the same way he pleaded for his son, I ask that Kes be restored to health.
GUIDE: Your request is inconsequential. You have what you need to save her yourself.

[Ritual room]
GUIDE: Welcome back.
JANEWAY: How long?
GUIDE: Does that matter?
JANEWAY: I'd like to know.
GUIDE: Thirty nine hours. You must take care of yourself. Your body's weak.
JANEWAY: I guess the physical conditioning programs on the holodeck didn't quite prepare me for this.
GUIDE: Has it been worthwhile?
JANEWAY: I think so. I was told that I had what I needed to save Kes.
GUIDE: Then it must be true. The spirits would not deceive you.
GUIDE: Whenever you're ready.
JANEWAY: Thank you.

[Sickbay]
EMH: You could use a good night's sleep and a solid meal, but otherwise you're in good shape.
JANEWAY: When can you begin treating Kes?
EMH: Right away. The ritual may have been arduous for you, Captain, but it was certainly worthwhile. As I suspected, the toxin was the key. That's what produces the natural immunity the Nechani monks acquire before they enter the biogenic field.
CHAKOTAY: How does that translate into a cure for Kes?
EMH: I've created a physiometric program to analyze the immune mechanism and develop a treatment regimen.
JANEWAY: Then let's get started.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, if you'll excuse me, I'm probably more useful on the bridge right now.
EMH: I'll carry out the treatment in stages to reduce the physical stress from the metabolic changes.
NEELIX: What's that? Is something wrong?
EMH: I don't believe so. Hmm, her electrolyte balance is deviating, but that's not entirely unexpected.
NEELIX: It isn't.
EMH: Hmm.
NEELIX: What does that mean? Hmm? What?
EMH: Mister Neelix, if you keep on pestering me with questions I won't be able to concentrate on what I'm doing.
NEELIX: Something is wrong!
JANEWAY: What is it, Doctor?
EMH: Her cardiac functions are being disrupted. I don't understand it. Lectrazine should counteract the disruptions. This is baffling. Her biochemical levels are exactly what they need to be to correct the damage. She should be awake and alert.
NEELIX: Why isn't she?
EMH: I can't explain it. Her vital signs are unstable. I have to discontinue treatment. I don't understand it.
NEELIX: Can't we try again?
EMH: It's too dangerous.
JANEWAY: Do you have any other options?
EMH: No. I'm sorry, Captain, but it appears that everything you went through was meaningless.

[Sanctuary]
JANEWAY: You meant what you said, didn't you? Everything I went through was meaningless.
GUIDE: Yes.
JANEWAY: I did everything you asked of me. You led me to believe that would allow me to help Kes.
GUIDE: I haven't led you anywhere, Kathryn. You've taken me along wherever you wanted to go. This was your ritual. You set these challenges for yourself.
JANEWAY: It's true that I came here with certain expectations. Are you saying that you simply fulfilled my expectations?
GUIDE: You'd have settled for nothing else.
JANEWAY: I'm not ready to give up. If there's still a way to save Kes I want to try.
GUIDE: You've come back to seek the spirits.
JANEWAY: I don't know what I'm seeking.
GUIDE: Then I believe you are ready to begin.

[Waiting room]
OLD MAN 1: Well, look who's come back. So, your little adventure didn't quite work out the way you'd planned it. You put yourself through a lot of trouble and for nothing, didn't you.
OLD MAN 2: Oh, don't feel bad. You wouldn't believe some of the things people have done to themselves on their way to seek the spirits.
JANEWAY: There is no real ritual after all.
OLD MAN 2: Real is such a relative term. Most of the challenges in life are the ones we create for ourselves.
OLD WOMAN: And you are particularly hard on yourself, aren't you.
JANEWAY: I've always been driven to succeed.
OLD MAN 1: Stubborn, I'd say. You didn't really consider sitting and waiting with us, did you?
JANEWAY: Well, I'm here now and I'm asking for your help. I want to understand the purpose of waiting in this room.
OLD WOMAN: But isn't it enough to sit and be sociable? We're good company.
JANEWAY: That's what I'm supposed to do. Talk to the Ancestral Spirits.
OLD WOMAN: First we were a test, and now we're the Ancestral Spirits.
JANEWAY: Are you?
OLD MAN 1: That would be nice and quantifiable for you, wouldn't it. If the spirits were something you could see and touch and scan with your little devices.
OLD MAN 2: If you can explain everything, what's left to believe in?
JANEWAY: I know it's an important part of your religion to trust the spirits without question, but I wasn't brought up that way. It's hard for me to accept.
OLD MAN 1: So much for your tolerant open-minded Starfleet ideals.
JANEWAY: There's a difference between respecting the spiritual beliefs of other cultures and embracing them myself.
OLD MAN 1: Fine. Don't embrace a thing. It's all the same to us. Go on back to your ship and play with your molecular microscanner.
OLD WOMAN: You've tried all that already, but it didn't work, did it. Kes didn't get better.
JANEWAY: No, she didn't.
OLD WOMAN: Why not?
JANEWAY: The Doctor couldn't explain it.
OLD WOMAN: So it's inexplicable. A miraculous non-recovery.
JANEWAY: We haven't found the reason yet.
OLD WOMAN: But of course you will. You'll find all the answers eventually, with enough time and study, and the right sort of tools. That's what you believe isn't it as a scientist?
OLD MAN 1: Be honest.
JANEWAY: Yes, that's what I've always believed.
OLD MAN 2: Even when her science fails right before her eyes she still has full confidence in it. Now there's a leap of faith.
OLD WOMAN: Unconditional trust. Now that's promising.
JANEWAY: All right. If you're saying that science won't help Kes, what will?
OLD MAN 1: You won't like it.
JANEWAY: I'm willing to do whatever's necessary.
OLD MAN 1: Kill her. She's as good as dead already, finish the job! Give her another jolt of that what do you call it, biogenic field.
OLD WOMAN: That would do it.
JANEWAY: It would do what, exactly.
OLD MAN 1: There you go again, always looking for a rational explanation. Well there isn't one. Your orbital scans and medical research have given you the facts, and they tell you the biogenic field is lethal.
OLD WOMAN: If you believe the facts.
OLD MAN 2: Let all of that go, Kathryn. Take Kes back into the shrine and trust the spirits to return her soul.
JANEWAY: The ritual I went through is meaningless, and Kes has done nothing to prepare herself. How could either of us be ready to go through the field?
OLD MAN 2: If you believe you're ready, then you are. There's no more to it than that.
OLD MAN 1: But if you go in with any doubt, with any hesitation, then you're both dead. So, what are you going to do, Captain?
JANEWAY: You know I won't stand by and watch Kes die if there's anything I can do to save her. I want to believe it's possible. I'm going to try.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we've been worried about you.
JANEWAY (voiceover): I'm all right. I want you to beam Kes down here to the sanctuary.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. I'll bring her down myself. Chakotay to sickbay. Doctor, prepare Kes for transport.
EMH (voiceover): Understood.

[Sanctuary]
CHAKOTAY: The Doctor says her life signs are deteriorating. He almost wouldn't let us take her out of sickbay.
NEELIX: Have you found a way to help her?
JANEWAY: Yes, I have. I'm taking her back into the biogenic field.
NEELIX: I hate to question you, Captain, but why?
JANEWAY: I believe it will save her life.
CHAKOTAY: You have some new information on the effects of the field?
JANEWAY: I can't explain it to you.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, you've been through a lot in the past few days.
JANEWAY: I know what I'm doing.
CHAKOTAY: Are you sure of that? There are eight hundred megajoules of biogenic energy running through that shrine. The thoron radiation levels are off the scale. That's what you'd be taking yourself and her into. Why don't you take some time to think about this and let us run a few more scans.
JANEWAY: No.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, this isn't like you.
NEELIX: You know you'll always have my gratitude for everything you've done to save Kes, but I couldn't and I know she couldn't ask you to risk your own life like this. There are too many other people who need you.
CHAKOTAY: He's right. It's my responsibility to keep you safe, for the crew's sake if not for your own. I'd rather not have to relieve you of duty, but if your judgment's been impaired in any way.
GUIDE: He can't really do that, can he?
JANEWAY: Yes, he can.
GUIDE: I suppose it might be necessary if the Captain of a ship were really mentally impaired, but you're not crazy, Kathryn, you know that.
NEELIX: These are the same people who were willing to let Kes die just for disturbing their shrine. Can you take their word for it that you'll be safe in there?
GUIDE: I can't give you my word on that. Nobody knows what will happen to them in the shrine until they go in. I don't know the answers. But you do.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I don't understand this.
JANEWAY: Neither do I. That's the challenge.
JANEWAY: Kes.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: The tricorder readings Commander Chakotay took at the shrine revealed traces of iridium ions, which we could have known about sooner if we'd been permitted to take those readings in the first place.
KES: And iridium ions are significant?
EMH: They caused a temporary dielectric effect in the outer epidermal layers which neutralized some of the biogenic energy. Not much, but enough to make the Captain's altered biochemistry an effective defense.
KES: Then how was I cured?
EMH: The metabolic treatment I administered protected you against the full impact of exposure to the field when the Captain took you through. That exposure functioned like a natural cortical stimulator and reactivated your synaptic pathways.
KES: That's fascinating, Doctor.
EMH: Captain? If there's something about my analysis you disagree with.
JANEWAY: It's a perfectly sound explanation, Doctor. Very scientific.

[Earth - High Sierras - 1967]
RADIO: Demonstration at U C Santa Cruz campus last night. Tear gas was used to disperse a crowd of three thousand angry students. The temperature right now in down town Barstow is seventy five degrees.
STARLING: Far out!

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in!
JANEWAY: Oh. Sorry, Tuvok. I was just practicing my serve.
TUVOK: Your serve?
JANEWAY: Tennis. After nineteen years I've decided to take it up again. I'm a little rusty. I played in a novice tournament on the holodeck. I lost my first match in straight sets.
TUVOK: Perhaps if you maintained eye contact with the ball at the apex of its trajectory, your serve would be more effective.
JANEWAY: You play tennis.
TUVOK: Simple physics, Captain.
JANEWAY: Not as simple as when I played on the High School tennis team. What can I do for you, Tuvok?
TUVOK: I've completed my monthly security evaluation. All systems and crew
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Red Alert! Captain Janeway to the bridge.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: Some sort of spatial rift. It opened right in front of us.
JANEWAY: Analysis.
KIM: It's a distortion in the space-time continuum, but it's got a graviton matrix. It's being artificially generated.
CHAKOTAY: By whom?
KIM: Sensors can't get inside. The distortion field's fluctuating. Something's coming out.
TUVOK: It appears to be a small ship, approximately six meters in length.
JANEWAY: Magnify.
TUVOK: Sensors are reading one occupant, human. He is holding position at the perimeter of the rift.
KIM: There's a subspace signature emanating from the ship. Captain, it's Federation!
JANEWAY: Hail them.
TUVOK: No response. They appear to be charging weapons.
CHAKOTAY: Shields up! Hail them again.
TUVOK: Shields are down.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here.
PARIS: Helm control is offline.
KIM: He's firing some kind of sub-atomic disruptor.
JANEWAY: Return fire.
TUVOK: Full phasers. No effect.
KIM: Voyager's molecular structure is coming apart!
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, divert all available power to the deflector. Send out a high energy polaron pulse. It might help to disrupt his weapon.
TUVOK: Emitting deflector pulse now.
KIM: It's working.
TUVOK: We are being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
BRAXTON (screen): Starship Voyager, I'm Captain Braxton of the Federation Timeship Eon. I've come from twenty-ninth century Earth, five hundred years into your future. Please disengage your deflector pulse.
JANEWAY: Why are you firing at us?
BRAXTON (screen): Your vessel is responsible for a disaster in my century. A temporal explosion that will destroy all Earth's solar system. I've come back in time to prevent that occurrence. My mission is your destruction. You must not resist.
JANEWAY: I'm going to need some more information before I allow you to
BRAXTON (screen): Debris from your secondary hull was found in the explosion.
JANEWAY: Captain, I simply
BRAXTON (screen): No time!
TUVOK: He's remodulating the sub-atomic disruptor. Our deflector is losing power, it won't hold much longer.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, if he's telling the truth
JANEWAY: I won't sacrifice this crew based on a ten second conversation. I need proof.
CHAKOTAY: It doesn't look like we're going to get it.
JANEWAY: Adjust our deflector to match the frequency of his weapon. Try to overload his emitter.
TUVOK: It seems to be working. His weapon is offline and his ship has been damaged. The rift is destabilizing and he's being pulled back inside.
JANEWAY: Re-establish helm control.
PARIS: I'm trying, Captain, but we seem to be caught in some kind of graviton distortion. We're being pulled in too.
JANEWAY: Status.
TUVOK: Primary systems are coming back online. The weapons array and power grid took heavy damage.
KIM: The temporal rift is closed.
CHAKOTAY: Where are we?
PARIS: Home.
CHAKOTAY: We just cut across half the galaxy!
JANEWAY: The rift must have originated here. Hail Starfleet Command.
TUVOK: No response on standard frequencies. Curious. I am picking up a multitude of narrow band EM signals.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
JANEWAY: The question isn't where we are, it's when we are. Mister Kim.
KIM: According to astrometric readings the year is 1996.
CHAKOTAY: The late twentieth century.
PARIS: Captain, they had surveillance satellites during this time.
JANEWAY: Maintain a high orbit. And modulate the shields to scatter their radar. We don't want to alarm the natives.
CHAKOTAY: What about the time ship? Is it here too?
TUVOK: There is no sign of the vessel in orbit. Scanning the planet surface. I am picking up low frequency subspace readings emanating from the northern hemisphere.
CHAKOTAY: Subspace technology shouldn't exist for another hundred years or so.
JANEWAY: It could be our friend from the twenty ninth century. Localize it.
TUVOK: North American continent, Pacific coast. The city of Los Angeles.
JANEWAY: We've got to go down there. If it is Captain Braxton, he's the key to all this, and at the moment his ship is the only way we have of getting back to our own century. Chakotay, Tuvok, Paris, you're with me. Mister Kim, you have the bridge.
KIM: Yes, Ma'am!
JANEWAY: As I recall, Tom, you're something of an aficionado on twentieth century America.
PARIS: That's right.
JANEWAY: What will we need to pass as locals in this era?
PARIS: Simple. Nice clothes, fast car and lots of money.

[Los Angeles - beach - Santa Monica]
TUVOK: We could have worn our Starfleet uniforms. I doubt if anyone would have noticed.
JANEWAY: The subspace readings are coming from within a one hundred meter radius of our position, but I can't pinpoint the source.
CHAKOTAY: I find it hard to believe a ship from the twenty ninth century could have landed on this beach without being noticed.
JANEWAY: We have no idea what kind of technology they might have in the future. Maybe it's cloaked. Let's spread out. Tuvok, Paris, go check the shoreline. Chakotay and I will search the boardwalk.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Well, Kathryn, you got us home.
JANEWAY: Right place, wrong time. But it is good to be back, nevertheless.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe I should look up a few ancestors. As I recall, one of them was a schoolteacher in Arizona.
JANEWAY: I don't know what my relatives were doing this far back in history.
GIRL ON BLADES: Coming through. Sorry.
JANEWAY: For all I know, she could be my great, great, great, great grandmother.
CHAKOTAY: She does have your legs.
JANEWAY: Have you ever been to southern California, Chakotay?
CHAKOTAY: No.
JANEWAY: After the Hermosa quake in 2047 this entire region sank under two hundred meters of water. It became one of the world's largest coral reefs, home to thousands of different marine species.
CHAKOTAY: Some interesting species in this century.

[Beach]
TUVOK: Subspace readings are weaker here.
PARIS: Let's head up to the board walk. Ah, the sun feels great.
TUVOK: Thermal and ultraviolet radiation are at hazardous levels.
PARIS: Lighten up, Tuvok. This was a great time and place and you're getting to see it first hand. Come on, take off your shirt.
TUVOK: And risk dermal dysplasia? No, thank you.
PARIS: Oh, Vulcans. Deep down you're all a bunch of hypochondriacs.
JANEWAY: The readings are coming from over there. Ten meters. There.
CHAKOTAY: So much for the timeship.
JANEWAY: There's no doubt about it. The subspace readings are coming from him.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]
RAIN: No way.
RAIN: Way.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: It's crap. The component density is too low, the voltage variance is out of spec and I don't even like the color.
JIM: But Mister Starling
STARLING: We've got less than six months before we introduce the HyperPro PC, and with a chip like this driving it we'll have to change the name to Edsel. I gave your company this contract because you're the best in the business, next to us of course. Go home, Jim. Lose some sleep over this. I want a full report middle of next week.
STARLING: What am I doing, Dave?
DAVE (voiceover): You're in a meeting, sir.
STARLING: And?
DAVE (voiceover): And, I know I'm not supposed to interrupt, but there's a woman calling on line three from Griffith Observatory. A Rain Robinson. She say's it's urgent.
STARLING: Put her through. Henry Starling.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]
RAIN: Hi, I don't know if you remember me. I'm one of the astronomers at the SETI lab you're funding. We met at the Griffith restoration party.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: Yes, yes. What it is?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]
RAIN: Okay. Well, it was my understanding you wanted to be notified immediately if I ever picked up a gamma emission that matched the frequency profile you gave me? Well, I did, so I am.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: Are you certain?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]
RAIN: Positive. I tracked the emission and guess what, the source is in orbit. It is right above us.

[Chronowerx -Starling's office]
STARLING: When did it show up?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]
RAIN: According to the raw data, about ninety minutes ago. I'm not picking up anything from the standard search parameters. Wow. That means no one else knows there's something up there. We've got to tell somebody about this. We've got to call NASA!

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: Rain, that's a little premature, don't you think? This could be a close encounter, but then again, it could be a flock of geese.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]
RAIN: Geese don't park themselves twenty thousand kilometers above North America. Let's send a message up there, see if there's any response.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: No! No, we don't know what we've found. And until we do, I'm not going to risk embarrassing myself, or your Observatory. Track the emission, get more data and keep me informed. In the meantime, I'm going to put a bottle of champagne on ice. Do you think ET likes Chateau Coeur?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]
RAIN: Well if he doesn't I've got a six-pack in the fridge.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: Good work, Rain. Stay in touch.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]
RAIN: Oh, what the hell. Anyone up there?

[Bridge]
TORRES: That trip through the rift is still affecting our primary systems. Weapons are offline, we blew three EPS conduits, and our main transporter buffer just crashed.
KIM: We've got an away team down there.
TORRES: I know. We've still got emergency transporters but they're short range.
KIM: How close to the surface would we have to get to beam them up?
TORRES: Pretty close. I'd say less than ten kilometers.
KIM: If we do that somebody's going to see us.
KAPLAN: Sir, I'm picking up an EM signal from the planet surface. It's directed at our co-ordinates.
KIM: On screen.
SETI MESSAGE (screen): Greetings from the people of Earth.
KAPLAN: Shall I respond, sir?
KIM: Absolutely not.

[Santa Monica]
JANEWAY: He appears to live on the street. That pushcart seems to contain all his belongings.
CHAKOTAY: From what we can tell he spends most of his time putting up literature about the end of the world.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, we've got a problem. We received a signal from the surface. It looks like a standard

[Santa Monica]
KIM (voiceover): Greeting designed for extraterrestrials.
JANEWAY: We've been detected.
KIM (voiceover): It looks that way. We tracked the signal to

[Bridge]
KIM: An observatory about twenty kilometers from your location.

[Santa Monica]
JANEWAY: Transport Paris and Tuvok to those co-ordinates.
KIM (voiceover): I can't do that right now, not without going into a lower orbit. The main pattern

[Bridge]
KIM: Buffer is offline. B'Elanna says it could take a couple of days to repair.
JANEWAY (voiceover): In that case

[Santa Monica]
JANEWAY: Transmit those coordinates to Mister Tuvok's tricorder. He and Tom will have to get there using more conventional means.
KIM (voiceover): Aye Captain, Kim out.
PARIS: Nobody walks in Los Angeles and they don't have much of a public transportation system. We're going to need some wheels.
JANEWAY: Do what you have to do. Find out who sent that message and get more information. Have we been detected, how many people know about us? We cannot risk contaminating the timeline.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
PARIS: See you later.

[Alleyway - Braxton's home]
BRAXTON: Who the hell are you! This is my stuff!
JANEWAY: It's all right, we don't want your stuff. We just want to ask you a few questions.
BRAXTON: No, no, no, no, no more questions, no. No more surveys. Damn social workers coming around all the time. No, I don't need your advice, I don't need your. Voyager. I knew you'd show up. This is all your fault, this is all your doing!
JANEWAY: Captain Braxton?
BRAXTON: I told you to turn off your deflector pulse, but you wouldn't listen to me. Voyager. Fools!
JANEWAY: Captain, what's happened to you? The last time we saw you
BRAXTON: I was a younger man, confident in my mission. But you wouldn't listen to me. Bo, you were too concerned with yourselves!
CHAKOTAY: You were trying to destroy us.
BRAXTON: I was trying to save billions of lives. To stop a chain reaction that started with Voyager! It's too late now. All things are set in motion. The terrible explosion will occur. The end is coming! The future's end.
JANEWAY: Captain, how long have you been here in the twentieth century?
BRAXTON: Too long. Thirty years too long.
CHAKOTAY: And yet we just arrived. Why?
BRAXTON: Pure chance. When you knocked my navigational system off course there's no telling where we may have ended up. Who's been here? Who took my pencils? Oh, always something missing. Oh, always trying to steal things. Oh, greedy people. Post-industrial barbarians!
JANEWAY: Captain, we want to help you, but you've got to give us more information. You said that Voyager causes the explosion.
BRAXTON: Yes. No. Yes. That's the paradox, my dear. A leads to B leads to C leads to A. Juvenile minds. Oh, how can I make you understand, huh? A. There's an explosion in the twenty ninth century. Debris from Voyager's hull is found in evidence. I go back in time to destroy you. B. You try to stop me, disabling my weapon which causes me to crash-land back here in the twentieth century. C. Someone in this century steals my timeship and launches it. They go into the future and once there they make one critical mistake which causes a terrible explosion that takes us all the way back to A. There's an explosion in the twenty ninth century. The cycle of causality is complete.
JANEWAY: How do you know all this? What evidence do you have that it will be your timeship that causes the disaster?
BRAXTON: Ah, I've spent thirty years answering that very question. Ah, yes, when the explosion first happened, my sensors recorded a whole variety of chronometric data. The pulses were highly chaotic. At first I thought it was a warp core implosion, but then I found debris from Voyager and my theory seemed to be confirmed. It was you. But then someone here stole my timeship and it started to dawn on me. If someone were to fly my timeship into the future without recalibrating the temporal matrix then that could cause the kind of explosion that I witnessed in the twenty ninth century.
JANEWAY: So it really wasn't Voyager after all.
BRAXTON: No. No, no, I reconstructed all the chronometric data as best I could remember it and it proved I was right. My ship causes the catastrophe.
CHAKOTAY: Which raises the question, who has your timeship?
BRAXTON: Starling. Henry Starling, CEO Chronowerx Industries. Philanthropist, entrepreneur, outstanding citizen. Pa! Before I crashed in 1967 I made an emergency beam out, but he found my ship before I did in some remote mountain range. I've been following this corrupt little man ever since, tracking his movements. He's become too powerful. I can't get close to him. Of course, you can't accomplish anything in this wretched century. Nobody here listens. Do you know that once they put me in a mental institution and filled me with primitive pharmaceuticals.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we can help you find Starling and your ship, and get us back to where we belong.
BRAXTON: Oh, I wouldn't do that if I were you.
JANEWAY: Why not?
BRAXTON: Haven't you been listening? A leads to B
JANEWAY: Leads to C. Yes, we heard you. Why shouldn't we try to stop Starling?
BRAXTON: Because somehow you're involved in the disaster. That's why I found debris from Voyager's hull at the explosion. You will be destroyed as well.
CHAKOTAY: Now that we know what's going to happen, maybe we can figure out
POLICEMAN: Hey, Captain, how you doing? Understand you've been putting these signs up around the city again.
BRAXTON: No. No, no, no. Not me. I would never do that.
POLICEMAN: Why don't you walk over here and we can talk about it.
BRAXTON: Stay right where you are, quasi-Cardassian totalitarian.
POLICEMAN: No need to get upset about this, we just want to talk to you about the signs. Now, there've been a few people complaining.
BRAXTON: Captain, tell them I'm not crazy. Tell them I'm from the future. They came from the future too, you know.
POLICEMAN: Okay.
BRAXTON: They came in on a starship.
POLICEMAN: All right.
BRAXTON: Traitors!
JANEWAY: We'll have to worry about him later. Right now, we've got to find Starling.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: We're not quite at the little green men stage yet, but believe me, you'll be the first to know. What I think we have here is an overenthusiastic young lady. I'm afraid she's exaggerating. We don't have anything, not yet. Thank you, Professor.
STARLING: You know what that little brat did? She emailed a friend of hers at JPL, who called his professor at CalTech. She's a security risk. Go to Griffith, get the data, get rid of her.
DUNBAR: Yes, sir.
STARLING: Dunbar! If it's true, if they're here, it's only a matter of time before they find me. There's no telling what capabilities they'll have. You may have to use the weapon.
DUNBAR: I understand.

[Outside Griffith Observatory]
TUVOK: Perhaps we should find a more suitable parking place. This is, after all, a stolen vehicle.
PARIS: Nobody's around, Tuvok. We're fine.
TUVOK: A taxi cab would have been less worrisome and more ethical.
PARIS: We haven't stolen anything. We borrowed a car. And we'll return it to the dealership as soon as we're done.
TUVOK: I was referring to the ethics of time travel.
PARIS: Somehow I doubt that taking a test drive is going to alter the course of the universe.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]
PARIS: Over here. These are radio wave readouts. It looks like radio telescope transmissions. Pretty basic.
TUVOK: Lieutenant, you are being careless.
PARIS: Tuvok!
TUVOK: I will not lighten up on the matter. Thus far I have tolerated your impulsive methods. At times they have worked to our advantage. But discretion is also a virtue. We must leave things exactly as they were.
PARIS: They've found us all right. The orbital schematic matches Voyager's position.
TUVOK: According to this data, they are tracking the warp emissions from our engines.
PARIS: Nobody in this century even knows what warp emission are.
TUVOK: Nevertheless, it appears they have configured their telescope to scan for them.
RAIN: Excuse me. Do not enter, employees only. The sign on the door.
PARIS: I'm sorry, I think we're a little lost. We were on the museum tour and we took a wrong turn at the Saturn exhibit.
TUVOK: Perhaps you could tell us how to get back to the lobby.
RAIN: Go right down the hall, take a left at Mars, right at Halley's Comet and then just keep going straight ahead past the soda machine.
PARIS: This lab is er, pretty groovy.
RAIN: Groovy.
PARIS: What do you do here?
RAIN: We watch the skies.
PARIS: For what?
RAIN: Signs of extraterrestrial life. Nice meeting you.
PARIS: My name is Tom Paris, by the way.
RAIN: Rain Robinson.
PARIS: Your curves don't look so great.
RAIN: Excuse me?
PARIS: This is a Fourier spectral analysis?
RAIN: That's exactly what it is.
PARIS: You know, you might get better resolution if you adjust your amplitude parameters.
RAIN: You're probably right
PARIS: Or you might try using a theta band filter.
RAIN: You know a lot for someone who can't find his way past Saturn.
PARIS: I majored in astrophysics.
RAIN: Where?
PARIS: Starfleet Academy.
RAIN: Never heard of it.
PARIS: East coast school.
PARIS: Orgy of the Walking Dead? That's a classic! Did you see the sequel, Bride of the Corpse?
RAIN: Let me guess. You minored in B movies.
PARIS: Something like that.
TUVOK: Pardon me, Tom. We should be going. Our friends are waiting for us.
PARIS: Yeah, right. Got to go.
RAIN: Hey, I do the planetarium show Tuesday nights, so er, you guys should come by, check it out, bring your friends. The best stars in Hollywood are right above us.
PARIS: Yeah, great, but I think we're busy on Tuesday. Thanks anyway.
RAIN: No problem.
RAIN: Whoa!

[Outside Griffith Observatory]
TUVOK: I downloaded all of her data into the tricorder and disrupted her data storage device.
PARIS: Good. I hope she doesn't get in any trouble.
TUVOK: It will simply look like a computer malfunction.
PARIS: It's a shame, though. She was about to make the biggest discovery in human history. It could have changed her career.
TUVOK: And ended ours. I am curious, Lieutenant, what does it mean, groovy?
RAIN: Hey! Hey you, guys!
PARIS: Red alert!
RAIN: Hey! Hey! Just wait a minute! What the hell did you do to my computer? It is screwed up! The hard drive is wiped!
PARIS: Look, I don't have time to explain.
RAIN: Who are you people, and what is that thing in your pants?
TUVOK: I beg your pardon?
RAIN: That little gadget you put in your pocket, what is it, a Demagnetizer?
PARIS: Get down!
RAIN: What the hell?
PARIS: Do you have a car?
RAIN: Yeah, over there.
TUVOK: We'll need to use it. Operations Officer's log, supplemental. We've been on full sensor alert looking for signs that anyone else has detected Voyager. As a precaution, I've also asked Neelix and Kes to monitor all media broadcasts.

[Mess hall]
KES: We've set up a computer algorithm to search for key words and phrases. Anything that might indicate Voyager.
KIM: Anything so far?
NEELIX: Not yet, although we have come across some very intriguing televised broadcasts. Take a look at this. It's a form of entertainment called a soap opera. The exploration of human relationships is fascinating.
KIM: I can't imagine just watching the story and not being a part of it.
KES: That's because you've been spoiled by the holodeck. There's something to be said for non-interactive stories like this, being swept away in the narrative.
NEELIX: Oh, I can't wait to see if Blaine's twin brother is the father of Jessica's baby.
KIM: Good work. Keep me informed, and don't get too swept away.
NEELIX: Er, aye, sir.
SHARON (screen): Nobody'll know the difference.
JACK (screen): I'll know, Sharon. He's my brother. How can I face him knowing that our son is his son?
SHARON (screen): All you need to know, Jack, is that I love you!

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
CHAKOTAY: So far, so good. We haven't set off any alarms.
JANEWAY: Our Mister Starling has built himself quite a corporate empire. Looks like he's got wealth, celebrity and an ego to match.
CHAKOTAY: I see you never learned to type.
JANEWAY: Turn of the millennium technology wasn't a required course at the Academy. This is like stone knives and bearskins.
CHAKOTAY: Well, this isn't. I'm detecting a forcefield. I can't scan beyond this wall. I don't see an access port or a control panel.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can find something in his computer. Oh, he's got a massive database here, but it's protected by an encryption sequence. I'm going to try interfacing my tricorder.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like a series of pictographs. They must have used symbols to represent the different functions of the computer.
JANEWAY: Let's see what Henry's been up to all these years.

[Rain's Camper van]
TUVOK: The transtators were disrupted by that energy weapon. Our communicators are useless.
PARIS: That means we can't call the, our friends. What do we do now?
RAIN: You're going to take a right at the next light and a left at the taco stand, because you're taking me home! And you're not keeping the van!
TUVOK: I am afraid that is not possible, Miss Robinson. Your life may be in danger.
RAIN: I'm going to pop this hatch and I'm going to start screaming until you tell me what's going on. Who are you? What is that thing in orbit? Why did that guy try to kill us?
PARIS: I told you, we're secret agents.
RAIN: I'm opening the hatch.
PARIS: Look, we saved your life. Isn't it obvious we're on your side?
RAIN: I'm standing up. I'm taking a deep breath!
PARIS: Rain, you're not going to scream! I know you're frightened and you've seen some pretty strange things, but you have to trust me! We're not going to hurt you and I will explain everything. It's either that or take your chances with the guy who tried to vaporize you.
RAIN: The UFO, what is it?
PARIS: It's a Soviet spy satellite. Part of a massive KGB operation. We're trying to stop it.
RAIN: Soviet? The USSR broke up five years ago. The KGB doesn't even exist anymore.
PARIS: That's what they'd like you to think.
TUVOK: Perhaps we've told her enough for now.
RAIN: What about you, Agent Tuvok? What's up with those ears? Thought I didn't notice? I did. What about your weapons? What are they, lasers?
TUVOK: I'm sorry, that information is classified. And as for my ears, they are a family trait.
PARIS: He's very sensitive about them.
RAIN: Whatever.
TUVOK: We must find a way to contact our friends.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
JANEWAY: Incredible. Starling's computer designs were inspired by technology from the timeship. He introduced the very first isograted circuit in 1969, two years after Braxton's ship crash-landed.
CHAKOTAY: Any every few years there's been an equally revolutionary advance in computers, all from Chronowerx Industries, all based on Starling's crude understanding of twenty ninth century technology.
JANEWAY: Are you thinking what I'm thinking, Chakotay?
CHAKOTAY: I wish I weren't.
JANEWAY: The computer age of the late twentieth century
CHAKOTAY: Shouldn't have happened.
JANEWAY: But it did, and it's part a of our history. All because of that timeship. Look at this. Gantry, power conduits, telemetry consoles. This looks like a design for a launching bay.
CHAKOTAY: Braxton was right. The ship's going to be launched.
JANEWAY: We've got to send these schematics to Voyager for analysis. Janeway to Voyager.
KIM (voiceover): Kim here, Captain.
JANEWAY: We're in Starling's office. I want you to establish a comm. link with my tricorder and try to upload his computer database.
KIM (voiceover): Aye, Captain. We'll need a few minutes to reconfigure to their binary system.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Let's see if we can find out where the location of that launch pad is.
CHAKOTAY: You're really getting the hang of this.
JANEWAY: I'm a quick study.
CHAKOTAY: You know, Captain, in a way Braxton was right. If we hadn't fought him when he tried to destroy Voyager, he wouldn't have been pulled back in time, his ship wouldn't have crash-landed on Earth, and none of this would have happened.
JANEWAY: Time travel. Ever since my first day in the job as a Starfleet Captain I swore I'm never let myself get caught in one of these godforsaken paradoxes. The future is the past, the past is the future. It all gives me a headache.
CHAKOTAY: Hold on. This looks promising. Try timeship security portal.
JANEWAY: Maybe it's linked to some kind of surveillance system. An image of the launch bay would give us a clue to it's location.
STARLING: I see you've made yourself at home. Welcome to the twentieth century. I know who you are. You're from the future. I knew you'd come back one day. I detected your vessel in orbit and Mister Dunbar here had a run-in with your friends. You're here to take the timeship.
JANEWAY: Mister Starling, you're about to cause a terrible disaster that will affect the twenty ninth century. An explosion that will cost billions of lives. We're here to stop you from doing that.
STARLING: What are you talking about?
CHAKOTAY: If you launch that ship and travel to the future, it will destroy Earth's solar system.
STARLING: How do you know this?
JANEWAY: Well, let's just say we talked to the ship's previous owner. He told us that if it's temporal matrix isn't precisely calibrated, you'll trigger a temporal explosion. That ship shouldn't be here. It belongs to another century. We have to take it back.
STARLING: What's that?
JANEWAY: It's a communication device. Someone's trying to contact me.
STARLING: Answer it.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, we've established the comm. link. We're ready to upload on your signal.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Do it.

[Chronowerx - Starling's Office]
STARLING: My database! Stop or I'll kill your Captain.

[Bridge]
KIM: Who is this?

[Chronowerx - Starling's Office]
STARLING: You've got five seconds.

[Bridge]
KIM: Break the link.
TORRES: Done.
KIM: What's our transporter status?
TORRES: The main pattern buffers are still offline. We can try an emergency transport from a lower orbit.
KIM: That's exactly what the Captain ordered us not to do. We'd be risking detection.
TORRES: Harry, we can't worry about that now. Their lives are in danger.
KIM: And if somebody sees a starship flying through the clouds?
TORRES: The Captain put you in charge. It is your decision.
KIM: Helm, get a fix on Chakotay and the Captain.
CREWMAN: Aye, sir.
KIM: B'Elanna, stand by emergency transporters. Get ready to beam them directly to the bridge. Take us down.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: You've taken over three thousand gigabits of information, including my launch plan. But that's not going to be a problem, Captain. I'll make a few changes to my travel itinerary. You're not going to stop me.
JANEWAY: If you don't give us that ship, we'll take it by force.
STARLING: In case you haven't noticed, I'm holding the gun.
JANEWAY: Not for long. I've got a starship in orbit that can vaporize this entire building in the blink of an eye.
STARLING: And you along with it.
JANEWAY: If necessary.
STARLING: Captain, you've got some cojones.
STARLING: Kill them!
STARLING: Damn!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Helm, maintain present altitude. Keep us within transporter range. Chakotay, see if you can disable the forcefield around that timeship. B'Elanna, prepare to lock onto the timeship and beam it to cargo bay two. Ensign Kim, you have an impeccable sense of timing. Not bad for your first day in the big chair.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: The forcefield's down.
DUNBAR: Sir, the timeship!
STARLING: They're trying to teleport the ship!

[Bridge]
TORRES: The matter stream is modulating. He's disrupting transport.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: Yes!

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, I don't understand how, but he's using our transporter beam as a downlink. He's accessing our main computer.
TORRES: Every time I try to disable his downlink he comes up with a new command override.
JANEWAY: Starling is using twenty ninth century technology against us. We may not be able to keep up with him.
CHAKOTAY: Inertial dampers are offline. He's gotten into our propulsion systems.
JANEWAY: Disengage transporters.
TORRES: Destabilizing matter stream. Transporters offline.
KIM: We've terminated the downlink, Captain, but he got at least twenty percent of our main computer files.
JANEWAY: Get us back into orbit and I want a full damage report.
STARLING (voiceover): Captain Janeway, Henry Starling here.
JANEWAY: This is Janeway.

[Chronowerx - Starling's Office]
STARLING: USS Voyager, Intrepid class. Much bigger than I expected, and much less advanced. Says here your ship was launched in the year 2371? You're from the twenty fourth century? And here all this time I though you were from the twenty ninth. Looks like I have the home field advantage. Ooo, what's this?

[Bridge]
STARLING (voiceover): Oh, now this is interesting.
CHAKOTAY: Damage reports are coming in. Some minor power fluctuations in the impulse drive and a few burned out circuits in the main computer core. Nothing we can't handle.
KES (voiceover): Sickbay to bridge. Captain, I can't find the Doctor.
JANEWAY: Is his program offline?
KES (voiceover): No. His program is gone.

[Chronowerx - Starling's Office]
EMH: Where am I?
DUNBAR: Who are you?
STARLING: Welcome.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Captain, this is Neelix. There's something on the television I think you should see.

[Bridge]
NEELIX (voiceover): It's a current events program.
KIM: I asked Neelix to monitor Earth broadcasts. I'm transferring it to the main viewer.
ANNOUNCER (voiceover): Incredible footage was caught just an hour ago by a man using his camcorder to tape a backyard barbeque. The massive unidentifiable object doesn't appear to be a meteorite, weather balloon or satellite, and one aviation expert we've spoken to has stated that it's definitely not any kind of US aircraft currently in use. We're waiting investigation by local authorities and we'll keep you updated as news develops on this incredible story. To be continued...

[Kerbside - Metro Plaza]
RAIN: Let me guess. Someone broke into the van last night while I was sleeping, tried to snatch the stereo, you bravely fought them off and now you're repairing the damage.
PARIS: That's exactly what happened.
RAIN: My hero. What's it like? Life as a spy, I mean.
PARIS: Classified.
RAIN: Oh, right. I forgot. But you said secret agent and nobody says secret agent. And you do that a lot. You get things not quite right, like you don't belong here.
PARIS: Rain, you're fantasizing.
RAIN: And you're insulting my intelligence. Yesterday afternoon I picked up a UFO in orbit. Today my life is completely out of control, so don't think I'm too stupid to notice.
PARIS: I apologize.
RAIN: Accepted.
PARIS: Would you also accept that there are lives at stake here? The more you keep asking me questions, the more difficult you make things. For everybody.
RAIN: I'll try.
PARIS: So, why'd you become an astronomer?
RAIN: My brother had a telescope, a little refractor. You could barely see in the tree house next door actually, but it was enough. It was enough to see the rings of Saturn. I remember. I remember I used to think that they looked like jewels from a pirate's treasure. All I ever wanted since then was to reach up and touch them.
TUVOK: Good morning.
RAIN: Agent Tuvok, what's up?
TUVOK: Breakfast is up. Have you made any progress?
PARIS: I think so.
RAIN: Chili burritos, foot long hot dogs and Goliath Gulps. This is not a breakfast, this is an afternoon at Dodger Stadium.
TUVOK: And that is a non-sequitur. Would you please hand me a burrito.
RAIN: Everything you guys do is just a little bit off.
PARIS: These things are kind of crude. So much for sending a locator signal.
TUVOK: There is another option.
PARIS: The radio dish at the Observatory. We could use the same set up
RAIN: The same set up as I used to send that message to your whatever it is up in orbit.
TUVOK: We will require your assistance.
RAIN: No kidding.
PARIS: Well?
RAIN: Not on an empty stomach.

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: Starling downloaded nearly twenty percent of our computer core while we were trying to beam the timeship out of his building.
TORRES: I'm replacing those programs as quickly as I can, but some of it isn't retrievable.
KES: Like the Doctor. There's literally nothing left of him. He's just gone.
JANEWAY: Unfortunately the Doctor is only one of our problems. Our weapons are offline, Tuvok and Paris are still missing somewhere in Los Angeles, and we've confirmed Captain Braxton's hypothesis. If Starling does attempt a flight to the future, it will most likely end in disaster.
KIM: Captain. I've analyzed Braxton's schematic. The temporal technology is incredibly complex.
TORRES: No matter how much a genius this Starling might be, he is not a trained pilot from the twenty ninth century.
CHAKOTAY: Without the exact calibration, that ship will rip the time-space continuum apart.
KIM: The instant he jumps to the twenty ninth century, there won't be a twenty ninth century. Not for Earth anyway. The entire solar system will be destroyed.
JANEWAY: I want that timeship.
TORRES: Long range transporters are still down. We'd have to drop out of orbit again.
NEELIX: Captain, I strongly recommend against that. The more legitimate news organizations have apparently decided that the Voyager image is fraudulent. However I've also been monitoring more official channels and the United States military is taking things just a little more seriously.
CHAKOTAY: If we risk another pass through the lower atmosphere, there's a chance of getting intercepted by the Air Force.
JANEWAY: If we can't get to the ship, maybe we can get to the man. Torres, I want
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Captain Janeway. I'm receiving a transmission from Lieutenant Tuvok, audio only.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, report.
TUVOK (voiceover): Lieutenant Paris and I are at the Griffith Observatory

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]
TUVOK: In the Hollywood Hills. We have modified the satellite dish transmitter to carry and receive Voyager communication frequencies. I regret the bad connection.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: That's quite all right, Mister Tuvok. What's happened?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]
TUVOK: We have become associated with a young woman employed at the astronomical laboratory. It was she who sent the message to Voyager, but her lab is under the supervision of an individual

[Briefing room]
TUVOK (voiceover): Named Henry Starling.
JANEWAY: Oh, we've met Mister Starling. He has the timeship and he's the one who will cause the disaster in the twenty ninth century.

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's Laboratory]
TUVOK: Then it would seem we must find a way to stop him.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Tell me about this young woman. Can we trust her?

[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory]
TUVOK: She and Lieutenant Paris appear to be bonding on a cross-cultural level. I would have to say yes.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Ask if she'd be willing to help us.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: How's it going?
EMH: I find your interest in my well-being to be less than genuine.
STARLING: Try to be a little more grateful, Doc. The schematics I downloaded from your ship indicate you were stuck in the sickbay twenty four hours a day.
EMH: I recently suffered a severe program loss and I'm still in the process of retrieving my memory files, but apparently on a few occasions I have been projected into other locations. Undoubtedly you're using a similar procedure.
STARLING: My holographic simulator. We use it to test our new microchip designs. I projected you through the emitters in the office. Your program really isn't very sophisticated.
EMH: That is a matter of opinion. Now would you please return me to my vessel.
STARLING: Can't do that. Not yet. I've a few questions I want answered.
EMH: If you have need of medical expertise, I would refer you to a more local physician.
STARLING: All Captain Janeway's talk of a disaster I caused is just smoke. You came here to steal my timeship.
EMH: That is simply not the case.
STARLING: That timeship is from the twenty ninth century. Technology five hundred years more advanced than anything you've got. You'd love to get your hands on it. You figured I'd be any easy target. Some backwards twentieth century Neanderthal that doesn't know what he's got. But you found out otherwise, didn't you?
EMH: A paranoid response indicative of bipolar personality disorder. If my history is accurate, southern California in the late twentieth century had no shortage of psychotherapists, competent and otherwise. I suggest you find one. Now, return me to Voyager.
STARLING: I've learned your weapons are damaged, your ship's teleporter's half shot, but I didn't get all the personnel files. I have to know my enemy. Give me Captain Janeway's psychological profile.
EMH: I'm a doctor, not a database.
STARLING: I'd say you're a little bit of both. Start talking.
EMH: Or suffer the consequences? Hardly. I'm a hologram. I experience neither pain nor fear of death. You have no means of coercing me.
STARLING: Pain. It's an interesting sensation, isn't it.
EMH: I, I never realized.
STARLING: How unpleasant it could be? This is what burning feels like. For a human to experience what you're going through right now, he'd have to be on fire.
EMH: How?
STARLING: By reconfiguring your tactile response sensors. Easy as proverbial pie. Feeling more co-operative?
STARLING: I'm in a meeting, Dave. Put her through.

[Metro Plaza]
RAIN: Mister Starling. Oh my god, I'm so scared. They're going to find me. I don't know what to do.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: Take it easy, Rain. Everything's okay.

[Metro Plaza]
RAIN: Everything's not okay. People are shooting at me! They're going to find me. I don't know what to do.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: Yes, you do. You're going to jump in a cab and come to my office. You'll be safe here.

[Metro Plaza]
RAIN: No, they'll find me.
STARLING (voiceover): Where are you?
RAIN: Metro Plaza, by the fountain. Please come get me. Please.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: I'll send somebody.

[Metro Plaza]
RAIN: No! You. I'm really scared.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: I'll be right there.

[Metro Plaza]
RAIN: He bought it, sort of.
PARIS: What do you mean?
RAIN: I don't know. His voice sounded a little suspicious.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: Pack a lunch, Doc. We're going for a walk.
EMH: In case you have forgotten, I can only appear in a room equipped with a holographic projection system. In short, I am going nowhere.

[Shuttlecraft]
TORRES: Interferometric dispersion is online. That should take care of any radar detection. And I've configured the shields to disguise our visual profile. Unless somebody gets right on top of us, we should look like a small twentieth century aircraft.
CHAKOTAY: Transporters are online. We should be within range in about ten minutes. You can see the entire Baja Peninsula. I'd forgotten how beautiful the view is from this altitude. I never thought I'd see it again.
TORRES: You trained as a pilot in North America, didn't you?
CHAKOTAY: That's right. My first year at the Academy. Then I went to Venus for a couple of months to learn how to handle atmospheric storms, and then I dodged asteroids for a semester in the belt.
TORRES: Sounds like you had a lot more fun at the Academy than I did. I remember dodging a few punches in the lab.
CHAKOTAY: Only you, B'Elanna, could start a brawl in Astrotheory 101.
TORRES: I guess I was just a little more enthusiastic in those days.
CHAKOTAY: I guess so.
TORRES: Chakotay, what if we're stuck here? What if we can't find a way back?
CHAKOTAY: There are still a few isolated places left in this century. We'd have to keep low profiles.
TORRES: We'd have to get jobs.
CHAKOTAY: I've thought about pursuing archeology full time. Maybe I could teach at a university or work on one of the important digs in Central America. There were still a lot of important discoveries to be made in this century. I could win a Nobel prize.
TORRES: So much for a low profile.
CHAKOTAY: What about you?
TORRES: Highly qualified Klingon seeks position as engineer.
CHAKOTAY: I'd hire you in a second. Let's start our descent.
TORRES: Approach course laid in. Full power to thrusters.
CHAKOTAY: Watch out for birds.

[Metro Plaza]
PARIS: Paris to Chakotay.

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
PARIS (voiceover): Starling's arrived, with the Doctor.
TORRES: What? How is that possible?
PARIS (voiceover): I don't know. Are you within range?
CHAKOTAY: Almost. Another two minutes.

[Metro Plaza]
STARLING: I don't know, Doc. You were awfully quiet on the ride over here.
EMH: I'm not programmed to make small talk.
STARLING: Maybe just a little bit anxious about being out in the real world.
EMH: It's just another environment to me.
STARLING: Mind your manners, Doc. If your shipmates start any trouble, you'll be holodust.
TUVOK: I have triangulated the position of the van, Chakotay. Stand by for tricorder uplink. You'll be able to lock on the moment Starling is inside.
RAIN: Mister Starling, I'm so glad you're here.
STARLING: Tell your new friends to come out or their colleague here's going to die.
RAIN: What are you talking about?
STARLING: Let's go.
RAIN: Oh, my van is this way.
STARLING: We're taking my car.
RAIN: I left my stuff in the van.
STARLING: I'll send somebody back for it. Is there a problem?
RAIN: No.
PARIS: He's heading in the wrong direction. They're not going to the van.
TUVOK: Mister Chakotay, there is a problem.
RAIN: That, that's the guy that tried to kill me.
STARLING: No, he was trying to rescue you.
RAIN: Where are we going?
STARLING: To my office. You'll be safe there.
RAIN: Office. Right.
PARIS: We're recalibrating Starling's position. You're going to have to take him out of his own car.
TUVOK: There may not be enough time. I've determined the coordinates.
PARIS: Now, Chakotay!

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: We've got a lock on Starling's position.
TORRES: Energizing.

[Starling's car]
STARLING: Dunbar, take the surface streets. The 101's a nightmare at this time
RAIN: Oh my God!
EMH: Run!

[Shuttlecraft]
TORRES: The pattern buffer's overloading. He's activated some kind of device. It's interfering with the transport.

[Metro Plaza]
PARIS: Are you all right?
RAIN: I guess so.
TUVOK: Doctor.
EMH: I've been equipped with an autonomous self-sustaining mobile holo-emitter. In short, I am footloose and fancy free.

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we've got Starling in our transporter buffers but we can't rematerialize him.
TORRES: The interference is disrupting computer pathways.
CHAKOTAY: Aft thrusters are down.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, we're close enough to the shuttle to use the short range transporter.
JANEWAY: Janeway to transporter room one. Lock directly onto the shuttle's pattern buffers and energize.
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, we're taking over from here. Mister Kim, let's go.

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: The buffers are purged. They've taken Starling off our hands.
TORRES: We're losing altitude.

[Transporter room one]
JANEWAY: He's got what looks like a tricorder. It's putting out some kind of interference signal.
KIM: I'm isolating it, and suppressing the amplitude. Got him.
STARLING: Ah. Damn it.
JANEWAY: Janeway to sickbay. Medical emergency in Transporter room one.
KES (voiceover): Acknowledged, Captain.

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: Propulsion is offline. Voyager, we're going down!

[Cellar]
TORRES: Where are we?
PORTER: This one looks like an Indian, and that one, I don't know what her story is.
BUTCH: What's that thing on her head?
PORTER: Careful, Butch, she looks like a fighter.
CHAKOTAY: Who are you?
PORTER: You first. Are you spying on us, Chief?
CHAKOTAY: No, just passing by.
BUTCH: In your new stealth plane? Who sent you?
TORRES: Nobody sent us. We had engine trouble.
BUTCH: I don't believe her. They're wearing military uniform, flying a secret plane. They're coming for us.
PORTER: USS equals Federal Government. The Federal Government is the Beast.
CHAKOTAY: We are not from the Beast. Just take us to our plane.
BUTCH: Shut up!
PORTER: That'll be all. Call for reinforcements.
PORTER: It's going to be a long day.

[Rain's Camper van]
RAIN: I've gone out with guys who've disappeared into thin air on the first date.
EMH: I assume she is speaking figuratively.
RAIN: But I have never actually seen it happen. And you, Mister Leisure Suit.
EMH: There's a name I hadn't considered.
RAIN: That guy punched you a bunch of times. You should have a black eye or a swollen lip, a broken nose.
EMH: Try to relax. You appear to be hallucinating.
RAIN: Oh, is that what I am? I'm hallucinating. Oh.
PARIS: Rain, I'm sorry you got dragged into all this.
TUVOK: Tuvok here.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Tuvok, we've got Starling, but we've lost contact with Chakotay and Torres. Their shuttle went down over Arizona. Mister Kim is transmitting the co-ordinates to your tricorder. I want

[Rain's Camper van]
JANEWAY (voiceover): You to find them.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. Tuvok out. Mister Starling is under control. I suggest you return to Chronowerx and continue the business there. The Doctor and I must make our way to Arizona.

[Sickbay]
KES: He suffered minor synaptic stress during the extended transport. Enough to cause unconsciousness but not any permanent damage.
JANEWAY: Can you bring him out of it?
KES: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Welcome to the twenty fourth century. I took the precaution of removing your tricorder. That's what it's called, by the way.
STARLING: It didn't work. Should have blocked your ship's teleporter.
JANEWAY: It works perfectly. You just don't know how to use it.
STARLING: Give me some credit, Captain. I did pretty well for a primitive.
JANEWAY: That's all over now. I've won, so disable the forcefield around Chronowerx. I want that timeship.
STARLING: You're in no position to be making any demands, Captain.
JANEWAY: On the contrary.
STARLING: What're you going to do, shoot me?
JANEWAY: The thought has crossed my mind.
STARLING: Well, it wouldn't get you anything. I've rigged the timeship. If you try to teleport it again, if you even go near it, Los Angeles will look like the face of the moon.
JANEWAY: You'd destroy an entire city? You don't care about the future, you don't care about the present. Does anything matter to you, Mister Starling?
STARLING: The betterment of mankind.
JANEWAY: It doesn't look like that.
STARLING: Why do you think I want to go to the future, a vacation?
JANEWAY: To get more technology. That's why you're launching the timeship.
STARLING: I've cannibalized the ship itself as much as I can. There's nothing left to base a commercial product on.
JANEWAY: And the future is just waiting to be exploited.
STARLING: You just don't get it, do you? I created the microcomputer revolution.
JANEWAY: Using technology you never should have had.
STARLING: Irrelevant. My products benefit the entire world. Without me there would be no laptops, no internet, no barcode readers. What's good for Chronowerx is good for everybody. I can't stop now. One trip to the twenty ninth century and I can bring back enough technology to start the next ten computer revolutions.
JANEWAY: If you even attempt to travel to the future, you risk creating a temporal explosion that could cost billions of lives, including your own.
STARLING: I'm willing to take that risk.
JANEWAY: In my time, Mister Starling, no human being would dream of endangering the future to gain advantage in the present.
STARLING: Captain, the future you're talking about, that's nine hundred years from now. I can't be concerned about that right now. I have a company to run and a whole world full of people waiting for me to make their lives a little bit better.
JANEWAY: Computer, reactivate forcefield. Chronowerx' stock is about to crash.

[Cellar]
PORTER: There are two forces at work in the world. The drive toward collectivity and the drive toward individuality. You are the former, and I am the latter.
TORRES: We told you. We are not from the United States Government, and we are not
PORTER: The Beast has many heads and I'm looking at two of them.
CHAKOTAY: Listen, I used to think violence could be the solution to a problem, but it's not true.
PORTER: You are no patriot.
CHAKOTAY: I was a freedom fighter, so I thought. That gun will get you nowhere.
BUTCH: Porter, they're coming! The Feds.
PORTER: How many?
BUTCH: Three cars and a chopper. Two miles up Edgemile Road.
PORTER: This is it, men. Get into position behind the house. Butch and me'll take these two.
PORTER: Looks like your friends out there still believe in violence. Too bad for you.

[Rain's Camper van]
RAIN: Let's recap. UFO in orbit, laser pistols, people vanishing. I've seen every episode of Mission Impossible. You're not secret agents.
PARIS: I told you, I can't talk about it.
RAIN: You can't keep a girl from hypothesizing. I'm a scientist. I'm thinking, I'm thinking alternate dimension. I'm thinking close encounter.
PARIS: Whatever.
RAIN: Talk about a motley crew. We have the Doctor, a guy with the worst, worst taste in clothing I have ever seen. Tuvok, what a freakosaurus. Has the guy ever tried to smile?
PARIS: Not that I can recall.
RAIN: And you, Tom Paris. Sexy, in a Howdy Doody sort of way. Pretty goofy, although sometimes I think you're the smartest man I've ever met. All this running around you do, your mission. You're so dedicated, you know? Like you care about something more than just your own little life.
PARIS: Is that so unusual?
RAIN: Yeah. Whoa, I missed the turn.

[Chronowerx - Timeship]
COMPUTER: SATCOM 47 activating.
DUNBAR: Engage Starling location sweep.
COMPUTER: Sweep underway.

[Bridge]
TUVOK (voiceover): We're in Arizona. Chakotay and Torres are thirty kilometers north east of Phoenix.
JANEWAY: Good. Get to them as soon as you can.
KIM: Captain, there's a transport in progress.
JANEWAY: What?
KIM: Starling's gone. He's beamed to the surface.
JANEWAY: He's got some kind of satellite in orbit.
KIM: He sent a transporter signal through our shields like they weren't there.
JANEWAY: Where's Starling now?
KIM: Tracking the signal. He's back at the Chronowerx building.

[Chronowerx - Starling's office]
STARLING: Mister Dunbar, good work. I think it's time to get out of here.

[Rain's Camper van - outside Chronowerx]
PARIS: I guess this is goodbye.
RAIN: Guess it is. Listen, are you busy tomorrow night? Because, er, you know, we should hang together.
PARIS: I can't.
RAIN: Oh, well, what about this weekend? You're married.
PARIS: Absolutely not. Just very busy.
RAIN: Yeah, you've got to get back to Mars, right?
PARIS: Saturn.
RAIN: That's perfect! I told you I always loved Saturn! So, give me your phone number.
PARIS: Rain.
PARIS: Tachyon emissions.
PARIS: They're moving the timeship.
RAIN: Timeship? What are you talking about?
PARIS: You wouldn't mind hanging with me for a while longer, huh?

[Cellar]
POLICE (voiceover): We want the aircraft, and the occupant from the aircraft.
PORTER: Get off my land!
TORRES: What are they going to do when they find a half-Klingon in here.
POLICE (voiceover): Who the hell are you two?
TUVOK (voiceover): Please stand aside, Officer.
POLICE (voiceover): I'm warning both of you to
PORTER: They've got lasers! A black man and some bald guy.
PORTER: God in heaven help us.
EMH: Divine intervention is unlikely.
EMH: Tuvok's at the shuttle. He's starting repairs.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, how?
EMH: It's a long story, Commander. Suffice it to say, I'm making a house call.

[Bridge]
KIM: It's Paris again, Captain, on audio.
JANEWAY: Status report, Tom.
PARIS (voiceover): We just turned off the main highway

[Arizona - Rain's Camper van]
PARIS: Onto a desert road.
RAIN: Hi, this is Rain Robinson. You don't know me, but the point is there is zero traffic on this road.

[Bridge]
RAIN (voiceover): They're going to know we're following them.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Miss Robinson. I'll keep that in mind. Tom, we've scanned the area. There appears to be a small landing field about ten kilometers ahead of you.

[Arizona - Rain's Camper van]
PARIS: It could be his launch site.
JANEWAY: Stay on him.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Our weapons are still offline and Torres hasn't finished repairing the shuttle. It might all be up to you.

[Arizona - Rain's Camper van]
PARIS: I'll do my best. Paris out.
PARIS: Look out!
PARIS: Get in behind him.
RAIN: What?
PARIS: Right off his bumper. Little closer.
RAIN: Forget it.
PARIS: One more meter!
RAIN: Just shoot!
PARIS: It's flooded. Give it a second.
RAIN: Well, do you think we got him?
PARIS: I think so.
RAIN: Come on.
PARIS: Jump!

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Paris. What's your status?

[Arizona - highway]
PARIS: We're fine. Good shooting.

[Shuttlecraft]
TORRES: Wasn't there supposed to be a timeship in that truck? Scanning the debris.
CHAKOTAY: There's a temporal transponder, set to give off tachyon signals. Chakotay to Voyager. The timeship's not here, Captain. It was a ruse. Starling's going to launch from a different site.

[Chronowerx - Timeship]
STARLING: Activate hyper-impulse.
COMPUTER: Hyper-impulse drive engaged.
STARLING: Let's do it.
COMPUTER: Command confirmed.

[Bridge]
KIM: The timeship is entering the upper ionosphere.
JANEWAY: Track his course. Janeway to shuttlecraft, return to Voyager immediately.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Acknowledged, Captain.
JANEWAY: Phasers are still offline. I've armed the photon torpedoes but we still can't fire them. The launch activation sequencers aren't responding.
KIM: I think I can reroute fire command through the helm.
JANEWAY: There's no time. Take the bridge, Mister Kim. Should be second nature to you by now.
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY: Open the access port to torpedo bay one. I'm going in there to reconfigure for manual launch.
KIM: Captain, with the activation sequencers down, you'd have to launch from inside the tube. It's too dangerous. The plasma exhaust will
JANEWAY: You have your orders.

[Shuttlecraft]
TORRES: I've got the transporters back online.
CHAKOTAY: Mister Paris, stand by. We're bringing you aboard.

[Arizona - highway]
PARIS: Acknowledged.
RAIN: Your spaceship's waiting.
PARIS: I've never met anyone quite like you, and I don't think I ever will.
RAIN: Same here. Say hi to Saturn for me.
PARIS: I will.

[Timeship]
STARLING: Initiate temporal inversion.
COMPUTER: Initiating.

[Torpedo tube one]
KIM (voiceover): Bridge to Janeway. The shuttle's back on board.
JANEWAY: Good. I'm nearly there.
KIM (voiceover): Captain, the timeship has jumped to warp one.
JANEWAY: Go to warp. We can't loose him now.

[Bridge]
KIM: Welcome to the Bridge, Doctor.
EMH: Thank you. It's a pleasure to be here.
CHAKOTAY: Status.
KIM: The Captain's in torpedo tube one. She's preparing for a manual launch.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, get down there.
EMH: How exactly to I get to torpedo tube one?
CHAKOTAY: Ensign Kaplan, go with him.
KAPLAN: Aye, sir.
TUVOK: The timeship is powering its temporal field generator. Starling will be able to open a rift within seconds.
KIM: Commander, the field he's creating? It's unstable.
TORRES: If he enters the rift like this the timeship will create a temporal explosion.
TUVOK: Events are occurring just as Captain Braxton predicted. The disaster may well be inevitable.
CHAKOTAY: Fate, Tuvok? I won't accept that. Close to within ten kilometers. We'll ram him if we have to.
PARIS: Aye, sir.

[Timeship]
COMPUTER: Temporal core has reached cascade potential.
STARLING: Penetration point at nine six mark zero four seven.

[Torpedo tube one]
JANEWAY: Janeway to Bridge. I've reconfigured for manual launch.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Arm the torpedo.
TUVOK: Torpedo armed.

[Torpedo tube one]
JANEWAY: Lock on target.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Locked on.
CHAKOTAY: Hail Starling.
KIM: On screen.
CHAKOTAY: This is Voyager. Pull away from the rift.
STARLING (screen): Or what? Your weapons are down, friend. See you sometime.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Janeway. Captain, we have no other choice.
KIM: He's entering the rift.
CHAKOTAY: Fire!

[Timeship]
STARLING: Uh oh!

[Turbolift]
EMH: Captain, I insist you come to sickbay.
JANEWAY: There'll be plenty of time for that, Doctor.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: The Bridge is yours, Captain.
JANEWAY: Is there a chance in hell we can reopen that rift?
KIM: Captain, the rift is opening. There's something coming out. It's the timeship.
JANEWAY: Let's see it.
TUVOK: We are being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen. Captain Braxton.
BRAXTON (screen): Do you know me?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, unfortunately.
JANEWAY: You tried to destroy our ship in the twenty fourth century and the next time we saw you, you were an old man, homeless, in 1996.
BRAXTON (screen): I never experienced that timeline.
PARIS: Then what are you doing here?
BRAXTON (screen): In my century we can scan time, much as you use sensors to scan space. The Temporal Integrity Commission detected your vessel over twentieth century Earth. I was sent to correct that anomaly. Prepare to follow me back into the rift. I'm returning you to your own time, to your previous coordinates in the Delta Quadrant.
JANEWAY: Captain, we've been trying to get home to Earth for the last two years. Can you return us to our century but keep us here, in the Alpha Quadrant?
BRAXTON (screen): I'm sorry. Temporal Prime Directive. I'm afraid you're on your own. Braxton out.
KIM: The timeship is re-entering the rift.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, follow him in.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50312.5. We are again in the Delta Quadrant, at the exact time and place we first encountered the timeship. I've resumed a course for Earth and I've ordered the crew to the Mess Hall for a toast.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Cheers. To the future.
PARIS: Hear, hear.
JANEWAY: How long will you be out and about, Doctor.
EMH: If you're referring to my new found mobility, that is entirely up to me.
TORRES: I'm still trying to figure out exactly how the Doctor's autonomous emitter works, but it looks like downloading him back into the ship's computer isn't going to be much of a problem.
EMH: Apparently the reverse is also true. I will be able to make use of the emitter as casually as you might slip on a pair of shoes.
TORRES: It's a little more involved than that.
EMH: You know, Kes, now that I'll be to and fro, your responsibilities in sickbay will increase.
KES: I'm up to the challenge, Doctor, but what about you? There's going to be more to your life than sickbay.
EMH: Nothing I can't handle. You know, Captain, I've always wanted a little more privacy. Perhaps under the circumstances, my own quarters.
JANEWAY: One step at a time, Doctor.
PARIS: You should have seen it when the parking enforcement officer came over to the van. Tuvok tried to use pure Vulcan logic to talk her out of giving us a citation.
CHAKOTAY: Did it work?
PARIS: Of course not!
TUVOK: Given Mister Paris's alleged familiarity with twentieth century America, it is a wonder we survived the experience at all.
PARIS: Tuvok, has anyone ever told you you're a real freakosaurus.

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]
NEELIX: Oh, Gallia nectar! From a blossom which only grows near a certain lake on Paxau and blooms once every six years. Specialty of the house.
KIM: This is a real place?
NEELIX: The Paxau resort was the place to go on Talax for serious relaxation and some personal pampering. It was very exclusive. You had to be rich and privileged, or know someone rich and privileged who owed you a favor. I'd say if anyone deserves and needs a little pampering, it's this crew. Don't you feel as if all your cares are just light years away?
KIM: Yeah, it's nice.
NEELIX: I'm certainly open to any suggestions for perfecting the program.
PARIS: Maybe it could use a little more, er, fun.
KIM: Loosen it up.
PARIS: Yeah, right. Like this guy. He's so formal. Computer, give the waiter a more casual look. And have him serve Rekarri starbursts all around. Now, what we need around here are some more people.
KIM: Computer, add characters from Kim Sports Program Theta Two.
PARIS: What sport would that be, exactly?
KIM: Volleyball. They're a Championship team. Gold medal winners in 2216.
PARIS: No wonder your game's improved.
KIM: You know, this would be even better with more upbeat music.
PARIS: Computer, access the cultural database and create musicians from Earth's Caribbean region.
PARIS: Now this is relaxing.
NEELIX: More drinks for everyone, and bring out some spicy paraka wings. You can't have a party without food.
JANEWAY (voiceover): All senior officers, report to the bridge.
KIM: Great program, Neelix.
PARIS: Save it for us, will you?
NEELIX: I certainly will. Hey, how can you listen to this without feeling the urge to dance?

[Kes' quarters]
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to Kes. Please report here immediately. I've been informed we may have incoming casualties.
KES: On my way, Doctor.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, sensor readings indicate that radiation inside the alien vessel is rising to toxic levels. The lifesigns of the passengers are growing weaker.
TORRES: Their warp core is heavily damaged. It's leaking drive plasma and gamma radiation. It could breach any time.
CHAKOTAY: Can we beam the passengers out through all that radiation?
KIM: Not from here. We'd have to get within five thousand kilometers.
TUVOK: At that range, we'll be at risk if their engine core explodes.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant, take us into range.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. Closing to within five thousand kilometers.
KIM: I'm diverting warp power to the targeting scanners, trying to get a pattern lock. There's still too much interference.
JANEWAY: A little closer, Tom.
TORRES: Captain, I'm reading an energy build-up in the reaction chamber.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim.
KIM: I've got a lock. Initiating transport.
TORRES: They're losing anti-matter containment.
JANEWAY: Shields up. Move us away.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: All major systems are undamaged.
KIM: I've got them, Captain. All three passengers are in sickbay.
JANEWAY: I'm impressed.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Start with the dermal regenerator on the worst of the radiation burns and scan for contamination of the surrounding tissue.
KES: It's all right, it's all right, we're taking care of you now.
EMH: You must lie still. You have internal injuries.
NORI: My husband, is he all right?
EMH: I'll sedate you if necessary.
KES: Doctor, his heart's stopped. He's not responding to cardiac induction.
EMH: Give him twenty milligrams of lectrazine. No effect. His biochemistry is incompatible with our medications.
KES: No synaptic activity.
EMH: The tissue damage is too extensive. There's nothing more I can do for him. Record the time.
NORI: No, you must save him! Tieran.
KES: I'm so sorry.
NORI: He can't be gone. He can't.

[Ready room]
ADIN: It was horrible. They chased us across half the sector. We were finally able to fight them off, but not before our own ship was damaged.
JANEWAY: Do you know who was chasing you?
ADIN: This particular trade route has always been plagued by mercenaries and thieves. I'm sure they wanted to take our ship and hold us for ransom. I'm a very prominent physician and Nori is a cousin of the Autarch.
NORI: We're grateful for your help, Captain. We're complete strangers to you but we owe you our lives.
JANEWAY: I regret that we weren't able to save your husband as well.
NORI: I know your medical staff did everything they could, and Kes has been so kind and compassionate that I don't think I could be making it through this time without her.
ADIN: I certainly hope that bringing us home won't take us too far out of your way.
JANEWAY: Not at all. We'll reach Ilari in less than two days.
ADIN: When we arrive, I'm sure that the Autarch will want to thank you personally.
JANEWAY: I'll be very pleased to meet him.

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]
NEELIX: Oh. Hello, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Good to see you too.
NEELIX: I was hoping you'd be Kes. She was supposed to meet me here twenty minutes ago. It's not like her to be late.
TORRES: She must have gotten held up with some work.
NEELIX: I wasn't sure you'd enjoy the program with the new modifications Harry and Tom added.
TORRES: Well, I've made a few modifications of my own.
TORRES: Thank you. Great program, Neelix.
NEELIX: Computer, locate Kes.
COMPUTER: Kes is in Transporter room one.

[Transporter room one]
ADIN: Don't you worry about using a device that takes apart your molecules and sends them flying through space?
KES: There are all kinds of safely procedures and back-up systems to make sure nothing goes wrong.
NEELIX (voiceover): Neelix to Kes.
KES: Kes here.
NEELIX (voiceover): I hope you didn't forget our lunch date in the holodeck?
KES: I'm sorry, I'll be right there. I have to go. I'll see you later.

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]
NEELIX: Are you feeling all right, sweeting?
KES: It's just a slight headache.
NEELIX: Well, we should get you to sickbay.
KES: I'll be fine. Really.
NEELIX: After lunch, we could go out for a sail.
KES: That sounds nice, but can we do it some other time? I promised to show Nori and Adin the airponics bay this afternoon.
NEELIX: You certainly seem to have hit it off with our guests. You've been nearly inseparable since they got here.
KES: Nori really needs a friend right now. I want to be there for her. So I hope you understand I'll be busy with her and Adin for the next few days.
NEELIX: We can keep them busy together. I'll arrange so many fun activities Nori won't have time to be sad. We can start with a lovely picnic
KES: This is typical of you, Neelix.
NEELIX: What? Wanting to help?
KES: It bothers you that I'm making friends of my own. You always have to involve yourself somehow.
NEELIX: Why, I certainly don't mean to intrude on your friendships. You can spend time with anyone you want.
KES: As long as I still spend most of it with you.
NEELIX: No. I, I'd hope that you'd want to be with me, at least some of the time. It's not a duty or an obligation.
KES: Well, sometimes it feels that way.
NEELIX: If you feel this way, why haven't you said so before?
KES: Maybe I never realized a relationship could be any different. I've never been with anyone but you. It might be a good idea for both of us to spend some time apart. I'm sorry.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50348.1. We've entered orbit around Ilari and sent a message to the Autarch inviting him to visit the ship. Instead, he'll be sending an official representative.

[Transporter room one]
NORI: The Autarch might have taken a personal interest in our welfare.
JANEWAY: I'm sure he does. Our message made it very clear that you had both completely recovered.
ADIN: I'm so glad you could join us.
JANEWAY: Beam our guest aboard. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Commander, a phaser has been fired in Transporter room one.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Janeway.

[Transporter Room one]
JANEWAY: Emergency in Transporter room oh!
TIERAN-KES: They've activated a security alert. Secure the door like I showed you.

[Bridge]
KIM: There's a transport in progress.
CHAKOTAY: Block it.
KIM: I'm locked out. Commander, it's one of the shuttlecraft. Someone is beaming it into space.

[Transporter Room one]
NORI: They're right outside the door.
TIERAN-KES: Everyone on the transporter pad now.
ADIN: You're sure this is safe?
TIERAN-KES: Maybe you'd rather stay here.

[Bridge]
KIM: Commander, three people just beamed to the shuttle. The two Ilarii, and Kes.
CHAKOTAY: Lock on the tractor beam.
PARIS: I'm trying, but the shields around the shuttle have been altered. They're scattering the beam.
CHAKOTAY: Target phasers at their engine core, just enough to knock out propulsion.
PARIS: It's too late. They've gone to warp.
CHAKOTAY: Set a course to follow them.
PARIS: I can't find the shuttle's warp trail. There's no sign of them on long range sensors.
TUVOK (voiceover): Transporter room to Bridge. Ensign Martin and the Ilari representative are dead. The Captain is injured and has been beamed to sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
KIM: It looks like the shuttle's plasma injectors were remodulated to suppress their warp signature.
CHAKOTAY: You wouldn't think it was possible to make those adjustments so quickly.
KIM: It takes some incredibly precise calibrations. Someone on that shuttle really knows what they're doing.

[Shuttle]
ADIN: They didn't follow us.
TIERAN-KES: Of course not. They're still trying to figure out what happened.
NORI: What's wrong? Does your head hurt?
TIERAN-KES: A little. It's nothing.
NORI: Adin should take a look.
TIERAN-KES: I said it's nothing! You're worse than that Talaxian.
ADIN: We're in position over the encampment now. Looks like Resh's assembled the troops right on schedule. Four hundred men just waiting for your orders.
TIERAN-KES: Maybe we should give them some.
RESH: What is this? Nori! I heard your ship had been destroyed.
TIERAN-KES: You didn't think I'd let a little accident stop me, do you?
RESH: That's Tieran?
TIERAN-KES: The host body you were expecting is dead. Fortunately a young nurse was with me at the right time, and she's provided me with a very suitable replacement.
RESH: Oh, I'm very relieved you survived.
TIERAN-KES: Oh, I'm sure you are, at least for your own ambitions. I want you to advance my troops to the northern ridge.
RESH: But we can't go ahead with the attack now!
TIERAN-KES: Are you questioning my orders?
RESH: This is insane. We've spent years planning this, every move, every detail, and now suddenly our leader's been reduced to a little girl?
TIERAN-KES: I've been exploring the mind of this little girl and I've discovered some rather interesting abilities.
TIERAN-KES: She had barely begun to tap into them. It's a good thing I came along, so all that wasted potential could be turned to a greater purpose. Now, should I continue the demonstration, or do I have your loyalty?
RESH: You shall have it. Sir.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50351.4. We're holding a meeting with Demmas, the Autarch's eldest son and heir, in an effort to understand the recent hostile activity.

[Briefing room]
DEMMAS: I'm sure they really wanted to kill my father. He's the one they invited up to your ship. Nori and Adin are known to be political extremists.
JANEWAY: How could Kes be involved?
DEMMAS: I may be able to explain that. You mentioned that she was with the third patient when he died?
EMH: That's right. Why?
DEMMAS: I believe your crewmember has been inhabited by the consciousness of a very dangerous man, named Tieran.
NEELIX: Who is that? What does he want with Kes?
DEMMAS: Oh, I know exactly what he wants. To overthrow my family's government and to reinstate himself as the Autarch.
TUVOK: He has held title before?
DEMMAS: Tieran ruled Ilari over two centuries ago. He was a war hero, a brilliant military leader. He brought security and stability during a difficult time in our history. But in peace time, he began to treat his own subjects as enemies. He became convinced everyone was a potential traitor.
CHAKOTAY: At some point your people must have rebelled.
DEMMAS: They did, led by one of my ancestors. They laid siege to the Imperial Hall for over a year and the city around it was burned to the ground, but Tieran was finally defeated.
TUVOK: And yet you believe that he, or at least his consciousness, has survived.
DEMMAS: During his reign he became obsessed with his own mortality. He spent most of his time, and Ilari's resources, searching for ways to overcome death. Somehow he's discovered a way to transfer his own mind into someone else's body, as he's done with Kes.
NEELIX: So he's been controlling her.
DEMMAS: Yes. Completely.
NEELIX: But she, he knew things about Kes's life. He acted enough like Kes to fool us all. The real Kes must still be in there somewhere.
DEMMAS: Tieran may have access to her memories and her feelings, but the Kes you know is lost. I'm very sorry.
JANEWAY: I'm not prepared to accept that yet. Examine the body of the man who died. We need more information about how the transfer works if we want to get Kes back.
DEMMAS: That's certainly worth exploring, Captain, but our priority must be to stop Tieran. By force if necessary. Voyager is a powerful ship.
JANEWAY: You may be considering force, but my only intention is to rescue Kes and remove Tieran's consciousness. That should suit both our interests.
DEMMAS: You don't understand what's at stake here, Captain. You must help me to defend my people.
PARIS (voiceover): Bridge to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
PARIS (voiceover): We've located the missing shuttle.
JANEWAY: On my way. Let's hope we can put an end to this right now.

[Bridge]
PARIS: They entered orbit, then dropped their shields and cut their engines.
KIM: There's a residual trace of transporter activity. Looks like four people beamed from the shuttle to the surface.
DEMMAS: They're in the main chamber of the Imperial Hall.
JANEWAY: Lock onto those patterns and beam them back to Voyager.
KIM: I can't. Some kind of interference has gone up around the whole structure.
DEMMAS: He's after my family, my father and brother are down there.

[Imperial Hall - Council Chamber]
TIERAN-KES: Ah, the venerated Autarch. I've been looking forward to meeting you for a long time.
AMERON: Father!
TIERAN-KES: Where's his brother?
RESH: He should have been here.
TIERAN-KES: Get him out of here. Lock him up!
ADIN: I think I've located the brother. According to security logs Demmas was transported to Voyager over an hour ago.
TIERAN-KES: He's going to be a problem but we'll have to deal with him at another time. Give me the talisman.
TIERAN-KES: This was stolen from me two hundred years ago, and I've dedicated every moment since to putting it back where it belongs.
ADIN: Loyalty and service to the new Autarch.
NORI: Loyalty and service.
TIERAN-KES: I want you to pay a visit to my supporters in Yaro province. Give them all new titles, whatever I promised. And of course, I couldn't overlook your faithful service. I think the title First Castellan suits you very well. I feel like I've finally come home again. The trouble is I left it. My portrait should be hanging here. As for the rest of this nonsense, it's nothing more than a useless display of wealth. As if the First Autarch needs to impress anyone. I want it all cleared out of here. Everything should look as it did during my reign!
TIERAN-KES: I trust you'll take care of all that. And we'll need some new servants, too. What is it? You don't look happy.
NORI: I'm happy that we've accomplished our goal, but there have been some unexpected changes and I don't know how they'll affect our future together. I don't even know if I'm still your wife.
TIERAN-KES: Forgive me, I haven't considered how unsettling this must be for you. Don't worry. You know how much I depend on you. Your loyalty and encouragement have helped make this victory possible. I'll share everything with you, just as I always promised.
GUARD: Autarch!
TIERAN-KES: Now I'm afraid I have business to attend to. Leave him here. Everyone else is dismissed. Ameron, you and I haven't had a chance to get acquainted. I'm Tieran.
AMERON: Tieran?
TIERAN-KES: I like the way you say that. You and I didn't get off to a very good start, did we?
AMERON: You murdered my father right in front of me.
TIERAN-KES: I shouldn't have let you watch that, I'm sorry. But his death was necessary to make room for his successor.
AMERON: Demmas is the rightful heir, not you.
TIERAN-KES: How many times have people said the very same thing to you? It must have been hard to hear, every day, the constant reminder that your brother is destined to be ruler just because he was lucky enough to be born first. I don't think that's fair, do you?
AMERON: It's the law.
TIERAN-KES: Doesn't have to be. It can change. Demmas is off hiding on some alien ship and you're here, with me. I'm sure it's an opportunity you've always dreamed of, to prove that you're really the natural leader and not just a weak copy of your father. Now you can have that chance, if you're willing to take it.
AMERON: You mean if I join you.
TIERAN-KES: We have so much to offer each other. Your heritage would help solidify my claim and in return I could give you power. Real power to control the lives of millions of people. To reward your friends, punish your enemies. Everything you want can be yours for the asking. Everything.
AMERON: After what you've done?
TIERAN-KES: That's all in the past. You should be thinking about the future. Would you rather be a martyr to your brother's cause, or rule by my side?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Demmas has decided to remain on board Voyager for the time being, but continues to monitor the worsening situation on Ilari.

[Ready room]
DEMMAS: This coup attempt is turning my people against each other. They're splitting into factions, mine and Tieran's.
TUVOK: Whom does the law recognize as Autarch?
DEMMAS: Officially, I inherited my father's title upon his death. But this isn't a matter of law, it's about loyalty. Some people will follow whoever has more power and right now that's Tieran. He's gaining support everyday. He's already recruited some of my less reliable allies, which may include my brother, Ameron.
JANEWAY: Your brother? I assumed he'd been killed.
DEMMAS: So did I, until I learned otherwise from sources on Ilari. Tieran spared his life no doubt in order to win his loyalty. Ameron's always been easily swayed.
TUVOK: And you believe he would betray you?
DEMMAS: That's very possible. And if he does there will be no way to avoid a civil war. I must strike now, before Tieran is fully prepared!
JANEWAY: There are always alternatives to war. Before you send in your fleet I suggest we hear from the Doctor and consider the possibility of removing Tieran from Kes safely.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've identified the transfer mechanism. This cortical implant was automatically activated at the moment of death. It enhanced Tieran's neural pattern and sent it out along the peripheral nerves. The actual transfer took place through these bio-electric microfibers. When they came into direct contact with Kes they transmitted Tieran's pattern up through her nervous system and into her brain.
DEMMAS: I assume Tieran would implant a device like this in his new body as quickly as possible.
TUVOK: Perhaps we can use that to our advantage.
EMH: My thoughts exactly. This synaptic stimulator will tap into the implant in Kes's body and remove the alien neural pattern. Then her own consciousness can take over.
DEMMAS: Yes, but how close would you have to get to use this device?
EMH: To be fully effective it would have to come in direct contact with her skin.
DEMMAS: If I could get anywhere near her, I'd use a thoron rifle to be absolutely sure.
JANEWAY: Not if you want my help. Kes is still a member of this crew, under my protection.
DEMMAS: I'm very sorry she got caught in the middle of this, Captain, but too many other innocent lives have already been lost. Including my father's.
JANEWAY: Then let's work together to prevent any more deaths. Don't risk the lives of your soldiers until you've exhausted every other option.
DEMMAS: What exactly do you suggest?
TUVOK: If Tieran is anticipating an attack by your fleet, he may not be guarding as carefully against an individual infiltrating the Imperial Hall. I believe I would be able to get close enough to Kes to use the Doctor's device.
JANEWAY: Your knowledge of the Hall and its defenses would be invaluable to us.
DEMMAS: All right, we'll try your strategy.

[Imperial Hall - Council Chamber]
ADIN: The new cortical implant looks fine. Let me just make sure it's connecting properly to the nerve pathways.
TIERAN-KES: Do something about these headaches while you're at it. They make it difficult to concentrate.
ADIN: That's an entirely different problem. This body isn't accepting your neural pattern very easily. She wasn't a willing host like the others.
TIERAN-KES: She's been resisting me all right. I can feel her in the back of my mind somewhere like a trapped animal, rattling her cage. She's a lot of spirit. It's invigorating.
ADIN: Your neural pattern may become unstable if you stay in this host. Now that we've got the transfer mechanism in place, I suggest you use it to move into a more compatible body.
TIERAN-KES: No! I like this one. Particularly the unique mental abilities that come with it.
ADIN: Consider the risks!
TIERAN-KES: Do you really think a child like this poses any threat to me? I've been fighting worse battles since the day I was born. When the doctor said I wouldn't live past my first year I proved them wrong. Even when my parents thought I was too sickly to be worth caring for, I survived on the streets. Even when my own ungrateful subjects forced me into exile I refused to accept defeat. I certainly won't surrender to this little girl! You will not suggest it again.
RESH: Demmas has acquired two more ships.
ADIN: There are reports that his fleet are massing behind the fifth moon. We should make a pre-emptive strike.
TIERAN-KES: Not on the basis of an unsubstantiated rumor. Let him come to us. We'll be ready.
NORI: I'm told that the Viceroy of Genarr is ready to give you his support in exchange for more territory.
TIERAN-KES: When did corruption become so commonplace? My people are crying out for moral leadership. I should make an example out of this Viceroy.
ADIN: What's wrong?
TIERAN-KES: There's someone.
NORI: Tieran?
TIERAN-KES: There's a familiar presence in this room. Not any of you. Someone from this body's previous life. Someone she knew well. Seal the room! We have an uninvited guest.
RESH: Everyone stay where you are.
NORI: Who is he?
KES: Someone very good at concealing himself and his thoughts. A disciplined, logical mind.
TIERAN-KES: You've made it this far without being detected, but you didn't realize how much more perceptive I've become. Typical Vulcan arrogance. It's touching really, your concern for the life of your little student, risking yourself in a hopeless effort to save her.
RESH: Get that off!
NORI: Are you all right?
TIERAN-KES: Yes, I'm fine, and still perfectly in control of this body, but my compliments on your clever medical technology.
NORI: An attack on the Autarch is punishable by death.
TIERAN-KES: She's so protective of me. But I think Voyager's tactical officer might be more useful to me alive.
TUVOK: You know that I won't provide you with any information.
TIERAN-KES: You'd be surprised how often I've heard that.

[Detention cell]
TIERAN-KES: Who helped you get past my security? Who betrayed me?
TUVOK: I had no assistance.
TIERAN-KES: What will Janeway do when you don't come back? Send someone else? Join Demmas in an assault?
TUVOK: I have no knowledge of the Captain's plans.
TIERAN-KES: She must have discussed alternate strategies with you before you came on this mission.
TUVOK: She did not.
TIERAN-KES: I suppose I could threaten you, or torture you, but I doubt that would make any difference.
TUVOK: You are correct.
TIERAN-KES: Fortunately I have other options now. With these new abilities, it's a simple matter to reach into someone's mind. With some people it's effortless. Others require a little more work.
TIERAN-KES: Do you really think you can keep me away from your innermost thoughts? Your fears and insecurities? Your feelings? I sense an embarrassment at being captured, worry about how strong I really am, and of course there's anger. That's the emotion that really threatens your control. So you try even harder to hide from me. I feel those mental barriers going up. Do you notice that it doesn't seem to be working? As if someone were disrupting your ability to concentrate. It's a helpless feeling, isn't it.
TUVOK: You will not break my control.
TIERAN-KES: Not break you, free you from all that repression. All you have to do is let go. I can help you release your own strength, and give you what you've always secretly desired.
TUVOK: I have never desired Kes.
TIERAN-KES: All those hours you spent alone together, all those intimate moments touching each other's minds, you've never even wondered what it might be like?
TUVOK: Kes!
KES: I'm here. I'm fighting him.
TUVOK: I had no doubt you would be.
KES: There are times when he's weaker I can almost break through.
TUVOK: Tap into his strengths, and make them your own.
KES: I'm losing hold.
TUVOK: I am with you. Don't let go.
TIERAN-KES: No!
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50361.7. Lieutenant Tuvok hasn't reported for our scheduled rendezvous and we've been unable to contact him. We're now considering other, more forceful, options.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Our team will beam down to the surface approximately two kilometers from the palace. Demmas and his advanced guard will meet us there.
NEELIX: Captain, I request permission to go with you on the rescue team. I had basic combat training on Talax. All right, very basic. But I've also been participating in tactical exercises with this crew every month. I have a lifetime of experience thinking on my feet, and you know I'll do everything in my power to make this mission a success.
JANEWAY: Consider yourself drafted.
DEMMAS: The detection grid will make a surprise attack difficult.
PARIS: Well then, we'll have to find a way to knock out the grid.
KIM: I've been scanning it for weaknesses. The system goes through a maintenance cycle every ten hours. There are a few seconds when it might be vulnerable to a narrow band EM pulse.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Bridge to the Captain. You have an incoming transmission from the planet.
JANEWAY: Put it through.
TIERAN-KES (screen): Captain, you failed.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
TIERAN-KES (screen): I'm still in control. Your little device was useless and Tuvok is my prisoner. I suggest you call off your new rescue mission before you lose any more members of your crew.
DEMMAS: You've made a bad guess, Tieran. There will be no more rescues.
TIERAN-KES (screen): My guess is that you've discovered the convenient weakness in the detection grid. If you attempt to take advantage of it, I'll have twice as many soldiers waiting for you.
CHAKOTAY: If this was meant to be a trap, why tell us about it?
TIERAN-KES (screen): I'm really not a monster. I have no quarrel with Voyager. Your crew did save my life once when my ship was about to explode. I haven't forgotten that. This has been a friendly warning, Captain, but it's the last one. Now, I strongly suggest that you accept your losses and be on your way. You have thirty seconds to leave orbit.

[Imperial Hall -Council Chamber]
TIERAN-KES: Send two of my warships to intercept Voyager.
ADIN: You're not well.
TIERAN-KES: If you can't do anything about this pain, then leave me alone.
ADIN: You need to get some sleep.
TIERAN-KES: No, she's there when I sleep.
ADIN: She?
TIERAN-KES: Kes! Who else.
ADIN: You can't stay awake for the rest of your life.
RESH: The Voyager's leaving orbit.
TIERAN-KES: Let them go.
RESH: Yes, sir, but, with all due respect, why? Demmas is on that ship. Our warships are in position to destroy it.
TIERAN-KES: I told them they could go, and I keep my word. I don't have to explain myself to you. Get out! Everyone! Clear the room now!

[Inside Kes's head]
KES: You're losing, Tieran. Why won't you admit it?
TIERAN: I will admit that you surprised me. Who would have imagined that such fierce determination existed within that deceptively frail body.
KES: Don't continue to underestimate me. Release me, or I'll force you out.
TIERAN: My dear, why should we be enemies? Why waste the energy in conflict when we could achieve so much more by cooperating.
KES: You're contemptible, Tieran. I won't be any part of your plans.
TIERAN: You're already a part of them. You and I have killed together, remember? And you will continue to serve my will. You really have no choice. Wouldn't it be wiser to join me? To take advantage of all I have to offer. You may find that you enjoy having power. I assure you, it is the finest aphrodisiac there is.
KES: That may work with others, but it won't with me.
TIERAN: So, you insist on making this a battle. How foolish.
KES: It's a battle I intend to win.
TIERAN: Brave words. You've been an annoyance to me, nothing more.
KES: I've been more to you than that, and you know it. I'm fighting you with every bit of strength I have, and it's wearing you down. You're becoming more unstable every day. The headaches alone are almost more than you can stand.
TIERAN: I've suffered pain all my life. It's going to take more than headaches to stop me.
KES: I know all about your life. I know about your suffering. It doesn't justify what you've become. You're a monster, Tieran, and I have no compassion for you.
TIERAN: And I don't ask for any. What I need from you I already have. Your body and your mind.
KES: You may have my body but you'll never have my mind. I won't surrender it.
TIERAN: You may resist and try to fight me, but eventually I will defeat you. I haven't existed for two centuries to be brought down by a child!
KES: You're already deteriorating and it's only going to get worse. I'll find every little crack in your defenses. You'll feel yourself crumbling from within, your sanity slipping away. I won't stop until you're broken and helpless. There's nowhere you can go to get away from me. I'll be relentless and merciless, just like you.

[Imperial Hall - Council Chamber]
TIERAN-KES: What are you doing?
ADIN: You were in such a deep sleep I had to use a stimulant to bring you out of it. Your neural stress levels are extremely erratic. This has gone too far. You must transfer out of this body before it destroys you.
TIERAN-KES: I told you not to say that ever again! As you can see, I'm in full command of my faculties. This momentary lapse will pass and I'll be stronger than ever! Stronger than ever! Stronger than ever. Stronger than.
TIERAN-KES: My friends, we have much to celebrate tonight. Our recent victory, the consolidation of power among those who are loyal to us, and the fact that Ilari is poised on the bring of what will be it's greatest era of prosperity. But there's another occasion that's cause for celebration. One that is perhaps the most joyous of all. I'd like to present my husband to be.
TIERAN-KES: Don't be upset, it's only a political alliance. Ameron will help bring the support of Demmas's troops. Ah, tell me you still love me.
NORI: You know I love you.
TIERAN-KES: Ameron! And Nori. You have both been essential to my success, and I want you to be close friends. I want us all to be very, very close. Ah, Nori, don't make me doubt your loyalty. I'm not listening to you!
RESH: Sir, enemy ships are approaching. At least twenty. It's Demmas's fleet, and Voyager.
TIERAN-KES: I assume our ships are moving to intercept them?
RESH: Yes, but we are outnumbered.
TIERAN-KES: I've always fought against the odds. My fleet will defeat them.
RESH: All the same, I recommend taking some precautions. We should get you to the reinforced shelter.
TIERAN-KES: This is a celebration to announce my marriage. I won't allow Demmas to make me run like some frightened animal. Join us. Food and drink for my First Castellan. I told you to join us. Drink! Eat! I want all of you to enjoy yourselves. My charitable projects, how are they progressing? When do we break ground for the new library?
NORI: Soon.
TIERAN-KES: Good. I want my people to know I have their welfare at heart. Tomorrow we'll send out an edict. Every citizen must have a garden.
NORI: A garden?
TIERAN-KES: I love plants, flowers, anything that grows. Some of the times I felt most content were those spent watching the seedlings grow in the airponics
RESH: They've made it through our defenses. They're sending down ground forces.
TIERAN-KES: That's impossible! You're lying!
RESH: I'm sending additional troops to the defensive positions. Activating full security measures. That ought to hold them off, but we have to go. Now.
TIERAN-KES: Anyone who tries to leave this room will be shot as a traitor.
RESH: Look for yourself!
TIERAN-KES: This has to be a trick, a ruse of some kind. That's what they're doing, they're creating a distraction to draw my attention away from their real plan.
NORI: Tieran, please, they're coming.
TIERAN-KES: They must have sent an infiltrator. We have an intruder! I know you're here somewhere, Tuvok, you don't realize how perceptive I've become. I know you're here!

[Detention cell]
PARIS: Tuvok!
TUVOK: Mister Paris.
PARIS: No time for a tearful reunion. We've got to get you out of here.
PARIS: Some day you're going to have to show me how to do that.

[Imperial Hall - Council Chamber]
NORI: Don't give in. Stay with me. Tieran!
TIERAN-KES: Still here.
NORI: Fight it. You must fight it, Tieran. Please, keep fighting.
JANEWAY: Do you have the device ready? Now!
NEELIX: They're getting away.
CHAKOTAY: I'll cover you.
NORI: We've got to get out, find a doctor and get you stabilized or transferred to a new host. You will survive.
NEELIX: Kes! Stop! Please, stay there. Just let me get to you and this will all be over.
AMERON: Tieran!
KES: Tieran?
NEELIX: He's gone.
KES: No, he isn't. He's still here. He moved onto someone else before you used this. He wanted you to think he'd been destroyed, but he's hiding in a new host. I know you too well, Tieran.
TIERAN-AMERON: No! You can't do this!
KES: You died a long time ago. Now it's time to let go.
KES: Demmas, it's over.

[Tuvok's quarters]
TUVOK: Your thoughts are a turbulent ocean. Visualize yourself floating above them.
KES: I can't. I've been using all the meditations you've taught me, but they're not helping.
TUVOK: You must be patient, and allow yourself sufficient time. Don't attempt to deny the emotional impact of your experience.
KES: How can I worry about my own well-being when so many people have suffered and died?
TUVOK: You were not responsible for Tieran's actions.
KES: I can't help wondering whether I could have fought harder.
TUVOK: It was your absolute refusal to surrender which defeated him. You cannot ask more of yourself than that.
KES: Everything seems so different now. My thoughts and perceptions, even my relationships with my closest friends. You, the Doctor, Neelix. How can I go back to my normal life as if nothing ever happened?
TUVOK: You cannot. This experience will force you to adapt. You are no longer the same person, and the course of your life will change as a result. Where that new course leads is up to you.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Oh!
CHAKOTAY: Incredible.
JANEWAY: Absolutely thrilling.
NEELIX: All I can say is, wow! What about you, Mister Vulcan? Isn't that just, wow!
TUVOK: Your inarticulate expression of awe notwithstanding, Mister Neelix, it was a fascinating spectacle.
KIM: That's the edge of the shock wave. The pressure's over ninety kilopascals, thirty percent more than we predicted.
JANEWAY: Tom, back us off at full impulse. I want to stay ahead of the brunt of that wave.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Congratulations, everyone. Only two other crews in the history of Starfleet have witnessed a supernova explosion.
KIM: But neither one was this close. Less than ten billion kilometers. Definitely a record.
JANEWAY: Who brought the champagne?
NEELIX: Champagne? Captain, if I thought you wanted champagne.
JANEWAY: Relax, Neelix. It's a figure of speech.
KES: Thanks for inviting us to watch with you, Captain. It's really got me interested in learning more about stellar phenomenon.
EMH: Just remember, Kes, anyone can stargaze on the Bridge, even a hologram with a mobile emitter, but the real action will always be in sickbay.
JANEWAY: How'd those shield modifications hold up, B'Elanna?
TORRES: Less than a seven percent power drain.
JANEWAY: Good job. Chakotay, what do you say we get started analyzing those carbon conversion readings?
CHAKOTAY: Captain, you've been on the Bridge for fourteen straight hours. Don't you think you deserve a little rest? Harry and I will get to work on the astrometric analysis, and we'll give you a full report in the morning.
JANEWAY: You win. I'll see you at oh seven hundred.

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Janeway to security. Intruder alert.
Q: There's no need to call room service, Kathy. I've already ordered.
JANEWAY: Oh, Q.
Q: You did say you wanted champagne?
JANEWAY: Janeway to security. Intruder alert.
Q: Oh, it's no use. I've taken the proverbial phone off the hook. After all, we don't want any interruptions.
JANEWAY: What are you doing here?
Q: To us.
JANEWAY: There is no us, Q.
Q: The night is young, and the sheets are satin.
JANEWAY: I want you out. But first, get rid of this bed.
Q: I have no intention of getting between those Starfleet issue sheets. They give me a terrible rash.
JANEWAY: Since you won't be getting in the bed, I wouldn't worry about it.
Q: Oh, Kathy, don't be such a prude. Admit it. It has been a while.
JANEWAY: And it's going to be a while longer. Now get out.
Q: So tense. Why don't you slip into something more comfortable?
JANEWAY: If you think this puerile attempt at seduction is going to work, you're even more self-deluded than I thought.
Q: Now I see. You think I'm interested in some tawdry one night stand. That's because I haven't told you why I'm here yet. Out of all the females of all the species in all the galaxies, I have chosen you to be the mother of my child.
JANEWAY: Oh!
Q: I know that you're probably asking yourself, why would a brilliant, handsome, dashingly omnipotent being like Q want to mate with a scrawny little bipedal specimen like me?
JANEWAY: Let me guess. No one else in the universe will have you.
Q: Nonsense. I could have chosen a Klingon Targ, the Romulan empress, a Cyrillian microbe.
JANEWAY: Really? I beat out a single-celled organism? How flattering.
Q: It's an overwhelming honor, isn't it? I can't get you out of my mind. You're confident, passionate, beautiful.
JANEWAY: And totally uninterested.
Q: Kathy, you can't leave. My cosmic clock is ticking. Besides, you have no idea what you're missing. Foreplay with a Q can last for decades.
JANEWAY: Sorry, but I'm busy for the next sixty or seventy years.
Q: Oh, I see, this is one of those silly human rituals. You're playing hard to get.
JANEWAY: As far as you're concerned, Q, I'm impossible to get.
Q: Goody! A challenge. This is going to be fun.
JANEWAY: Janeway to bridge.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay here, Captain.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: I thought you were going to get some sleep.
JANEWAY (voiceover): I've just had a visit from Q. He's gone now.

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: But I want to be notified immediately if he reappears anywhere on the ship or if anything odd starts to happen.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. What did he want?

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Let's just say he had a personal request.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Captain?

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: I'm not sure what he's really up to, but I have a feeling he'll be back. Janeway out.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: I've got those carbon conversion readings from the supernova.
JANEWAY: Thank you. Is there something else?
CHAKOTAY: Have you heard anything more from Q?
JANEWAY: No. I wish I could believe he's gone for good.
CHAKOTAY: I was wondering just what just what you meant when you said he made a personal request.
JANEWAY: He wants to mate with me.
CHAKOTAY: I see.
JANEWAY: Obviously, it's out of the question. And I suspect it's a smoke screen. Knowing Q, he's probably got some hidden agenda.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe.
JANEWAY: Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: I know I don't have any right to feel this way, but this bothers the hell out of me.
Q: I do believe you're jealous. Why didn't you tell me there was another man?
JANEWAY: Because there isn't. I'm just not interested in you.
CHAKOTAY: Any more questions?
Q: I was wondering, Kathy. What could anyone possibly see in this big oaf, anyway? Is it the tattoo? Because mine's bigger.
JANEWAY: Not big enough. Captain's log, stardate 50384.2. Q's unannounced visits continue. Since I suspect he's up to something more than pursuing me, I've instructed the crew to take every opportunity to uncover his true motives.

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]
PARIS: Who says crew performance reports have to be a chore?
KIM: Sure beats working on the bridge.
PARIS: Now if we could just convince the Captain to start holding morning briefings in here.
KIM: That'll be the day.
Q: Nice program, Tommy. But it's all just so much holo-pleasure, isn't it?
PARIS: All right, Q, we'll bite. What do you want?
Q: Guys, I just don't understand your Captain. I've tried everything. Filling the Bridge with roses, writing Drabian love sonnets, serenading her in her bath.
PARIS: Oh, I'll bet she loved that one.
Q: But no matter what lengths I go to win her heart, she rejects me. Me! How, I ask you, is that possible?
KIM: Did it ever occur to you that she just doesn't like you?
Q: No.
PARIS: Look, Q, we've been told about your appearances on the Enterprise. We know your little visits usually turn out to be more than meet the eye. So save your broken heart routine, and tell us what you're really after.
Q: I just thought that the two of you might be able to give me some advice on how to break through Kathy's icy exterior. You know, man to man.
PARIS: My advice would be to give up before you embarrass yourself anymore than you already have. Come on, Harry. We're not going to get a straight answer out of this guy.
Q: You, bar rodent, another one of these fruity concoctions.
NEELIX: Not unless you tell me why you're bothering Captain Janeway.
Q: Captain Janeway? Now that's a subject I want to discuss. Tell me, what are some of her favorite things. Chocolate truffles? Stuffed animals? Erotic art?
NEELIX: You can't bribe Captain Janeway.
Q: Oh, no? Isn't that what you do?
NEELIX: What are you talking about?
Q: I understand that you acquire things for her, create little interesting diversions, prepare little tasty treats. After all, why else would she be so fond of your fur-lined face?
NEELIX: Do you want to know what Captain Janeway likes about me? I'll tell you. I am respectful, loyal and most of all, sincere. And those are qualities which someone like you could never hope to possess.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: This isn't going to work, Q.
Q: How can you ignore that face?
JANEWAY: He's adorable. But this has to stop.
Q: Please, accept him as a small token of my affection.
JANEWAY: No.
Q: Suit yourself. May we talk? Just talk.
Q: I'm afraid that I haven't been sincere. When you first asked why I wanted to have a child with you, I made jokes, bragged about my prowess, engaged in sexual innuendo. I was using all that to cover up my true feelings.
JANEWAY: And I suppose you want to share your true feelings with me now.
Q: I'm lonely.
JANEWAY: Lonely?
Q: Oh, I know it's hard to believe, but I've been single for billions of years. It was fun at first, gallivanting around the galaxy, using my omnipotence to impress females of every species. The fact of the matter is, it left me empty. I want someone to love me for myself. I guess what I'm saying is, I want a relationship. I just thought if you and I had a child, it would give me that kind of stability and security that I've been missing.
JANEWAY: Sorry, Q. I'm not buying it.
Q: Oh. All right. Let's see if you buy this. You're stuck out here, thousands of light years from home, and you aren't getting any younger, are you? All your hopes for home, hearth and family grow dimmer every day. Admit it, Kathryn, you're lonely too. And you wonder if you will ever have a child.
JANEWAY: You're right. I would like to have a child someday. But not with you.
Q: Why not?
JANEWAY: I'm just not the right kind of woman for you, Q.
FEMALE Q: Truer words were never spoken.
Q: Q! How did you find me?
FEMALE Q: Never mind that. What are you doing with that dog? I'm not talking about the puppy.
Q: Can't you see I'm busy here? Stop stalking me.
FEMALE Q: You should be back in the Continuum.
JANEWAY: Excuse me, but who are you exactly?
Q: Kathryn Janeway, may I present Q.
FEMALE Q: Not just any Q. His Q.
Q: We were involved for a while.
FEMALE Q: About four billion years. And now you desert me to pollute the Continuum with the DNA of this narrow little being.
Q: I never said it was exclusive.
FEMALE Q: Stay away from him.
JANEWAY: Look, Miss Q, I'll save you a lot of trouble. I have zero interest in him.
Q: Oh! Now you see what you've done? And I was finally making progress.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Bridge to Janeway. You'd better come in here, Captain.
JANEWAY: On my way.
JANEWAY: I'd really appreciate it if you would take this domestic squabble off my ship.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: You're not going to believe this, Captain, but another star in this cluster just went supernova. It's point oh two light years from our current position.
KIM: Make that two supernovas, Commander. I just picked up another one at two one seven mark four seven. Estimated time of implosion, sixty seven seconds.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here, Tom.
PARIS: I can't. A subspace shock wave from the star is collapsing the warp field.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Tuvok, increase power to the shields. Tom, lay in a course away from that shock wave, maximum impulse.
JANEWAY: A star going supernova is an event that occurs once every century in this galaxy. Now we're about to witness our third in less than three days, all in the same sector. Why do I suspect you have something to do with this?
FEMALE Q: She maybe a member of an intellectually challenged species, but she's right. Your irresponsible behavior is continuing to have cosmic consequences.
Q: Will you stop overreacting? Always nagging. Now you see why I left her.
JANEWAY: Are you causing these supernovas?
Q: Well, not exactly.
JANEWAY: What's that supposed to mean?
PARIS: It's no use, Captain. the shock wave is too fast for us.
JANEWAY: Try evasive maneuvers.
TUVOK: I'm afraid a course correction will be futile, Captain. There are now three distinct shock waves heading toward us on various trajectories. It will be impossible to avoid them all.
JANEWAY: Divert auxiliary power to the shields. You have the ability to get us out of here, so do it.
CHAKOTAY: Sixteen seconds to impact. I'm not sure if the shields will hold.
JANEWAY: Do something, Q.
Q: Well, if you insist.
FEMALE Q: That two-timing toad!
TUVOK: Contact with the first shock wave within three seconds, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: All hands, brace for impact.

[Q Continuum - Colonial Manor House]
JANEWAY: Q? Where have you taken me?
Q: Well, I must admit, your gown is very becoming.
JANEWAY: I don't have time for your little fantasies. Return me to Voyager.
Q: This is no fantasy. You're in the Q Continuum.
JANEWAY: The Continuum?
Q: That's right. I'm simply allowing you to perceive it in the context your human mind can comprehend.
JANEWAY: The last time you brought me here, it looked like some sort of way station on a desert road.
Q: It was awfully drab, wasn't it? But this, this is a much more colorful representation for a human of American descent, don't you think? An elegant manor house, a beautiful Southern belle, a dashing Union officer determined to win her affections despite her hatred for Yankee interlopers.
JANEWAY: Enough. The only thing that interests me right now is the welfare of my ship and crew.
Q: Well, I'm sure your first officer, Chuckles, is it? I'm sure he's got everything under control for the moment.
JANEWAY: I'd like to make sure of that myself, if you don't mind.
Q: This has gone way beyond your ship. It's even gone beyond you and me. This is about the future of the Continuum itself.
JANEWAY: Stop speaking in riddles, and tell me what's going on.
Q: I'll do better than that. I'll show you.
Q: The Continuum is burning. The Q are in the middle of a civil war.
JANEWAY: Start explaining.
Q: Do you remember our friend, Quinn?
JANEWAY: The Q who committed suicide aboard Voyager?
Q: Do you recall what I said might happen if he were allowed to take his own life?
JANEWAY: You said it would represent an interruption to the Continuum. That it could have dire consequences.
Q: I'd say a civil war is pretty dire, wouldn't you?
JANEWAY: His death caused this conflict?
Q: It caused chaos and upheaval. Because even though he was gone, his calls for freedom and individualism continued to echo in the ears of those who believed in his teachings, myself among them. I sounded the trumpet and carried the banner. Naturally, others followed. The forces of the status quo tried to crush us once and for all, but we fought back. And now there's a cosmic struggle for supremacy, and the battle is spreading, causing hazardous repercussions throughout the galaxy.
JANEWAY: Oh! The supernovas.
Q: You might call them galactic cross fire. It's terrible, isn't it? But it's also a wonderful opportunity.
JANEWAY: I fail to see anything wonderful about a war.
Q: War can be an engine of change. War can transform a society for the better. Your own Civil War brought about an end to slavery and oppression.
JANEWAY: But our Civil War came at a time before mankind had learned to resolve disputes without bloodshed. Surely the Q have evolved to a point where you can find a non-violent way to resolve a conflict.
Q: That's where you come in.
JANEWAY: What do I have to do with any of this, Q?
Q: I want you to help me transform the Continuum in the same way your Civil War transformed a nation.
JANEWAY: By mating with you?
Q: I know. It's brilliant, isn't it?
JANEWAY: I don't see how a baby is going to end a war being fought by a race of omnipotent beings.
Q: It's simple. Mating will create a new breed of Q, which will combine my omnipotence and infinite intellect with the best that humanity has to offer.
JANEWAY: You believe human DNA is going to restore peace?
Q: Precisely. What the Continuum needs right now is an infusion of fresh blood, a new sensibility, a new leader, a new messiah. Think of it, Kathy. Our child will be like a precious stone tossed into the cosmic lake, sending endless ripples of human conscience and compassion to wash up on every distant shore of the universe. What greater contribution could a being of your limited power ever hope to make? What is more important to humanity than peace? I'm offering you the opportunity to be the mother of peace.
Q: Well, what's it going to be? Oh!
JANEWAY: Q! You're bleeding.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Report.
TUVOK: Shield strength is at twenty percent. Hull damage on decks nine through fourteen. Minor injuries reported on all decks.
PARIS: Warp drive is offline.
KIM: Commander, according to these readings, the shock waves have knocked us sixteen billion kilometers from our previous location.
CHAKOTAY: I want to know what's going on here. Where's Captain Janeway?
FEMALE Q: Let me go before I hurl this ship and everyone on it into the Therinian Ice Age.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think you can.
FEMALE Q: Don't be ridiculous.
CHAKOTAY: I don't know how or why, but something's affected your powers. Otherwise, you wouldn't still be here and you wouldn't have a bruise on your forehead. Now start talking before I hurl you into the brig.

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: And it's the war in the Continuum that's causing the supernovas?
TUVOK: May we presume that this conflict is also responsible for the weakening of your powers and your inability to return to the Continuum?
FEMALE Q: The Vulcan talent for stating the obvious never ceases to amaze me.
CHAKOTAY: How were Q and Captain Janeway able to re-enter the Continuum and you weren't?
FEMALE Q: I tried to return, but I was wounded in the process. Oh, don't try to understand it, it's far beyond your limited capacity to comprehend. What's important is, I'm stuck here with you mortals while Q is probably in the process of irreparably harming the Continuum with that woman. Tossed aside for someone five billion years younger. If it weren't so laughable, I'd cry.
CHAKOTAY: Look, we want our Captain back, and you obviously want to get home. Why don't we help each other?
FEMALE Q: How could you possibly help me?
CHAKOTAY: There's got to be some way to get back to the Continuum besides snapping your fingers.
FEMALE Q: Hmm. Well, there's one possibility. But somehow, I don't think this rickety barge or your half-witted crew members are up to the challenge.
TUVOK: May I remind you, madam, that this rickety barge and its half-witted crew are your only hope at the moment.

[Q Continuum - Colonial Manor House]
Q: Ow! That hurts.
JANEWAY: Be still. I never thought a Q could be injured.
Q: As I said, this is only a perception of what is happening. I can assure you, those are not mere cannonballs and lead charges being fired at us.
JANEWAY: So they're some sort of Q weapons?
Q: You'd be surprised what innovative munitions can be created by one immortal being who's set his mind on killing another.
COLONEL Q (voiceover): Hold your fire. Hold your fire! You're surrounded, Q. Surrender now. We'll be merciful.
JANEWAY: Call a truce. Talk to them. Maybe you can resolve this peacefully.
COLONEL Q (voiceover): What's your answer, Q?
Q: I'll never surrender! You know that!
COLONEL Q (voiceover): Resume fire. Resume fire!
Q: Get the rifle in the corner and take the other window.
JANEWAY: This is your fight, Q, not mine.
Q: If that's how you feel about it. But if their weapons can make me bleed, what do you think they'll do to you?
JANEWAY: Q! Come on. Come on. First Officer's log, Stardate 50392.7. While we don't fully understand the astrophysics underlying her plan, the female Q has suggested several modifications which may allow Voyager to enter the Continuum.

[Engineering]
Q: Well?
TORRES: Well what?
FEMALE Q: Are you finished yet?
TORRES: What you've asked us to do requires a complete reconfiguration of the shield array. It takes a while. For us mere morals, that is.
FEMALE Q: Surely there's some way you can speed up the process?
TORRES: If you're in such a hurry, why don't you just snap your fingers and do it yourself? Oh, that's right. You've lost your powers and you need our help.
FEMALE Q: I don't think you understand. It's imperative that I get back to the Continuum before Q mates with your Captain.
TORRES: I understand perfectly. You aren't the first female who's ever had a man run out on her.
FEMALE Q: I hope you're not comparing some failed romance in your pitiful existence to my eternal association with Q.
TORRES: You know, I have really had it with this superiority complex of yours.
FEMALE Q: It's not a complex, dear. It's a fact.
TORRES: Well, here's another fact. If you don't stop pestering me, I'm never going to finish. In which case, your association with Q might not be quite as eternal as you think.
FEMALE Q: you know, I've always liked Klingon females. You've got such spunk.

[Q Continuum - Union army camp]
Q: Where are we?
JANEWAY: One of your faction's encampments.
Q: How?
JANEWAY: I pulled you out of the mansion and managed to hide you from the enemy patrols. Then I spotted some of your people retreating from the battle. From the look of them, I'd say you're not on the winning side.
Q: You saved my life.
JANEWAY: And now it's time to end all this.
Q: I knew you'd come around.
JANEWAY: I've been thinking about what you said, that creating a new Q could bring an era of peace.
Q: Oh, my wild, sweet Kathy. I promise you won't regret it.
JANEWAY: Oh, you're not going to have a child with me. You're going to mate with that charming lady friend of yours that appeared on my ship.
Q: Mate with another Q? Ridiculous.
JANEWAY: It sounded to me like you and she had a very long term relationship.
Q: Yes, but it was never physical. I mean, the Q are way beyond sex. It's never been done.
JANEWAY: Really? Then how exactly did the Q come into existence in the first place?
Q: The Q didn't come into existence. The Q have always existed. Besides, I can only mate with a species capable of copulation, like you.
JANEWAY: But I don't love you, Q.
Q: Yes, but what does that have to do with it?
JANEWAY: Everything. It's the foundation of a family. I could never have a child with someone I didn't love, much less give it up to the Continuum.
Q: Dearest Kathy, I would never dream of having you give it up. I mean, who would raise it? Who would look after it? I'm really not cut out to be a wet nurse.
JANEWAY: Oh, so you're not willing to do the hard work?
Q: I'm an idea man. Hard work isn't my forte.
JANEWAY: I'd change specialties if I were you, because the kind of trouble you're in needs more than a quick fix. You can't just sprinkle a little human DNA into the Continuum and make everything all right.
Q: Why not?
JANEWAY: Those best qualities of humanity you talked about aren't a simple matter of genetics. Love, conscience, compassion.
Q: Ow.
JANEWAY: They're attributes that mankind has developed over centuries. Values that have passed from one generation to the next, taught by parents to their children. Creating a new kind of Q is a noble idea, but it will take more than impregnating someone and walking away. If you want your offspring to embrace your ideals, you're going to have to teach them yourself.
Q: Yes, but that's exactly why I want you here, to nourish and guide the little tyke. Think of the opportunities here in the Continuum. The entire universe would be our child's playground. Together the two of you could explore dimensions you've never even imagined. Fess up. Isn't it even slightly tempting?
JANEWAY: I'd be lying if I said no. What explorer wouldn't be intrigued by the idea of seeking out whole new dimensions. But I have other responsibilities, and I won't just abandon them.
Q: Ah, yes. The crew of the intrepid starship Voyager. Perhaps you'd be interested in sending them home.
JANEWAY: You've tempted me with that prospect before. But frankly, your credibility is more than a little suspect. My crew and I will get home. We're committed to that. But we're going to do it through hard work and determination. We are not looking for a quick fix.
Q: Even if I wanted to mate, I wouldn't know how. It's totally unprecedented.
JANEWAY: You'll figure something out. You are omnipotent, after all.
Q: I need time to think about it.
JANEWAY: Time's up, Q. You've got to stop this war before it destroys the Continuum. Now I'm taking this white flag, and I'm going over to the enemy camp, and I'm going to tell them you're ready to talk about terms for a ceasefire.
Q: Kathy, don't be a hero.
JANEWAY: I'm going, Q. So if I were you, I'd start working on a way to set that precedent. First Officer's log, supplemental. We've laid in a course for the point in space where the female Q says we can enter the Continuum and find the Captain.

[Bridge]
FEMALE Q: You, helm boy. Adjust course to heading two three five mark zero eight. Increase speed to maximum impulse.
PARIS: Sir?
KIM: Er, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: What is it, Harry?
KIM: She's put us on a direct course for another star about to go supernova.
FEMALE Q: You did say you wanted to get into the Continuum?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, but in one piece.
FEMALE Q: Try to wrap your minuscule mind around this. These supernovas are actually caused by spatial disruptions within the Continuum, the result of the war. Now, each time a star implodes, a negative density false vacuum is created which actually sucks the surrounding matter into the Continuum.
CHAKOTAY: So Voyager will be pulled in too.
FEMALE Q: If we time it perfectly. Otherwise, the subsequent explosion will blow you all into microfragments.
TUVOK: Commander, I needn't remind you that close proximity to a supernova will crush us, whether or not we time it perfectly.
FEMALE Q: You're so negative.
CHAKOTAY: He does have a point.
FEMALE Q: Humanoids. Q to Engineering.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Go ahead, Q. Female
Q (voiceover): Take warp drive offline.

[Bridge]
Q: Then remodulate the shields to emit a beta-tachyon pulse and prepare to emit a series of focused antiproton beams to the shield bubble.
CHAKOTAY: Does this make any sense to you at all, B'Elanna?

[Engineering]
TORRES: I'd be lying if I said I understood it completely, but if she's thinking what I think she's thinking, we should increase power to the shields by a factor of ten!

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): That's assuming, of course, that the shield bubble doesn't ignite and burn us all to a crisp.
PARIS: We'll be reaching the imploding star in thirteen seconds. I still have time to change course.
CHAKOTAY: Maintain your course. B'Elanna, take warp drive offline, remodulate the shields, and get ready to emit the antiprotons.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Entering the star's corona in three seconds.
CHAKOTAY: Antiprotons now, B'Elanna.

[Q Continuum - Confederate Colonel's tent]
Q: Ah, Captain Janeway, I presume. You're dismissed. I'm sorry to have kept you waiting, madam, but, please sit down. I understand you walked into our camp alone and unarmed?
JANEWAY: That's right.
COLONEL Q: The Continuum's a dangerous place for all of us right now, not to mention a solitary human female. I admire your bravery.
JANEWAY: I've come with an offer of truce from Q.
COLONEL Q: I'm afraid the time for diplomacy has passed, madam. If we don't end this war quickly, the damage to subspace will be irreversible.
JANEWAY: Then you agree the fighting has to stop.
COLONEL Q: Most certainly. That's why we intend to bring this war to a conclusion by the most expedient means possible.
JANEWAY: I'm relieved to hear you say that. May I ask how?
COLONEL Q: Quite simple, really. Since Q is the ringleader of this so-called freedom faction, we shall have to execute him.
JANEWAY: With all due respect, sir, there are no chapters in the history of my own people more tragic than wars which set neighbor against neighbor. Q has an idea for a non-violent way to bring this conflict to an end. I urge you to listen to what he has to say.
COLONEL Q: We are already resolved, madam. I'd be greatly in your debt if you'd tell me where we can find him.
JANEWAY: I won't do that.
COLONEL Q: No, I didn't think you would.
GUARD: Excuse me, sir.
COLONEL Q: Fortunately, we won't be needing your assistance.
JANEWAY: I told you, he's willing to negotiate. Let him go.
Q: She's right. I've had a change of heart.
COLONEL Q: Grovel all you want, Q. I've been waiting for this moment for an eternity. Put them both in chains.
JANEWAY: Wait! What are you charging me with?
COLONEL Q: Collaborating with the enemy, which in the Continuum is a crime punishable by death.

[Q Continuum - Confederate camp]
PRIVATE: Captain.
CAPTAIN: Private.
JANEWAY: Why won't you listen to me? I told your Commander last night we can resolve the situation peacefully.
Q: If it's any consolation, there are those in the Continuum who will remember us as martyrs.
JANEWAY: I'd rather skip that particular honor.
Q: Still, you have to admit, there's something romantic about going to our deaths together.
COLONEL Q: Do you have any last words?
JANEWAY: I won't plead for my own life. From your perspective I know it seems insignificant. But what is not insignificant is the fact that the Q, as an omnipotent race, have an opportunity to be a positive force to set a higher standard for other beings in the galaxy. I implore you all, don't go through with this. Don't allow yourselves to continue using violence to resolve your differences.
COLONEL Q: Q, do you have anything to add?
Q: Today I sacrifice my existence for the principles of freedom and individuality that I have fought for so long. But this woman is innocent. What's more, she saved my life, and she tried to save us from each other. Kill me if you must, but let her go.
COLONEL Q: A very touching speech, Q. But as usual, your rhetoric fails to compensate for your irresponsibility.
COLONEL Q: Ready! Aim!
Q: I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: I know.
COLONEL Q: Fire!
Q: I'm hit! I'm dying! Oh!
JANEWAY: Q!
Q: What?
JANEWAY: They're not firing at us.
Q: They're not?
CHAKOTAY: Harry, get to the Captain!
KIM: Captain, are you all right?
JANEWAY: I'm fine.
Q: Oh, darling, I knew you'd come for me. Aren't you going to untie me?
FEMALE Q: How do I know you wouldn't run off with the next bipedal female that catches your eye?
Q: Well, it just so happens I have a proposal which will reassure you of my devotion.
PARIS: Put down the gun.
Q: Think of it, Q. We'd be visionaries, innovators, the parents of peace.
FEMALE Q: Oh, that does have a ring to it.
PARIS: Captain, what should I do with him?
FEMALE Q: Q and I have a plan to end the war. Call off your troops.
JANEWAY: Do as she says and I'll call my people off.
FEMALE Q: They may be humanoids, but they're using our weapons.
COLONEL Q: Cease fire! Cease fire!
JANEWAY: Tell our people to stop shooting.
PARIS: Hold your fire!
KIM: Put down your weapons!
Q: So, darling, have you given any thought as to how we might accomplish this historic act of procreation?
FEMALE Q: I've thought of nothing else since you suggested it.
Q: Oh!
FEMALE Q: As a matter of fact, I
Q: Oh. Oh. Oh! I love it when you talk dirty.
JANEWAY: Why don't I give you two some privacy?
Q: Oh, Kathy, don't you like to watch?
Q: Oh! I was good, wasn't I?
FEMALE Q: Very good.
JANEWAY: That was it?
Q: You had your chance. Don't go crying about it now.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Paris, what's our position?
PARIS: We're back on our original course.
TUVOK: All crew are present and accounted for.
JANEWAY: Ensign Kim, any sign of supernovas?
KIM: No, ma'am. Nothing but calm space ahead. Looks like the war is over.
JANEWAY: Mister Chakotay, run a series of standard diagnostics. If everything checks out, take us to warp six.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'll be in my ready room.

[Ready room]
Q: Yabba dabba doo.
JANEWAY: Q!
Q: He's got my cheekbones, don't you think?
JANEWAY: He's adorable. I'd say fatherhood agrees with you.
Q: Well, I'll admit, I look at the universe in an entirely different way now. I mean, I can't go around causing temporal anomalies or subspace inversions without considering the impact it'll have on my son.
JANEWAY: I'm glad to hear you intend to set a good example.
Q: By the way, did I tell you how smart he is? I've already taught him how to knock small planets out of orbit.
JANEWAY: And I thought you were going to teach him about love and conscience.
Q: Oh, that's why we want Auntie Kathy to be the godmother now, don't we?
JANEWAY: I'm honored.
Q: Yeah, well, wait until we ask you to baby-sit. Can't leave the little guy alone for a nanosecond. Well, it's time to be going. The old ball and chain really hates it when we're late. Say bye bye. Bye bye.

[Tak Tak homeworld]
CONSUL: Good health, strong body, clear mind.
NEELIX: And you, your hospitality, your generosity, your patience, many thanks. My colleague's behavior, our apologies.
JANEWAY: Consul, I assure you I meant no
CONSUL: Please make her quiet.
NEELIX: Captain, please.
JANEWAY: I understand.
NEELIX: Good health, strong body, clear mind.
CONSUL: And you. Your journey home short and safe.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50425.1. Mister Neelix and I have completed our three day trade mission with the Tak Tak, one of the more unusual species we've encountered in the Delta Quadrant. We are en route back to Voyager.

[Shuttlecraft]
JANEWAY: Oh. I've always been taught to be tolerant of other cultures and points of view, no matter how alien, but I have to say that the Tak Tak are the most unforgiving people I've ever met.
NEELIX: They are a little impatient.
JANEWAY: They make the Klingons look sedate. I may never put my hands on my hips again.
NEELIX: You had no way of knowing you were making one of the worst insults possible.
JANEWAY: Obviously they've never heard of forgive and forget. It's a good thing you were there, Mister Neelix. I might have been shot at dawn. I have studied chromolinguistics, American Sign Language, the gestural idioms of the Leyron, but I just couldn't get the hang of the Tak Tak.
NEELIX: It seemed like more than just a language to me, Captain. A lot of their gestures, from what I could tell, were ritualistic. You might even say superstitious.
JANEWAY: You have a genuine flair for diplomacy, Mister Neelix. I may have to promote you from morale officer to Ambassador. With all the species we're bound to meet, I could use a man like you at the front door.
NEELIX: Ambassador Neelix. I like the sound of that. We're approaching the rendezvous coordinates.
JANEWAY: Dropping to one quarter impulse. Voyager's not there, and they're not responding to hails. I'm running a long range scan. There they are. They're holding position in sector thirty eight, coordinates one two one mark six.
NEELIX: That's over a light year away from here.
JANEWAY: The ship appears to be adrift. They could be in trouble. Engaging maximum warp.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Voyager. Commander Chakotay, respond.
NEELIX: The ship looks perfectly fine. There's no sign of any external damage. Any sign of the crew?
JANEWAY: There's some kind of bioelectrical interference. I can't get clear life sign readings. The escape pods are all in place, and there's no indication of any recent transporter activity. Grab a phaser, Ambassador. We're going to get some answers.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Still no sign of the crew, but these sensor readings are highly erratic. A bioelectric field is permeating the ship.
NEELIX: Where's it coming from?
JANEWAY: I can't localize it. Let's try accessing the ships internal sensors, see if we can get a better reading.
JANEWAY: Same problem. The main computer is offline, so is the comm. system. This is strange. One of the bio-neural gel packs in the mess hall ruptured, but most of the systems in there seem to be functioning normally. Let's get to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Someone was doing maintenance work on this power relay. All the equipment is still active, but the work hasn't been completed.
NEELIX: It's almost as if they dropped what they were doing and ran.
JANEWAY: Come on.
NEELIX: This isn't the welcome home I was expecting.
JANEWAY: Me neither, but if there was an attack of some kind, why didn't Chakotay try to contact us or send out a warning buoy? I'm picking up a comm. signal about ten meters ahead. It's coming from inside this room.
NEELIX: This is Ensign Wildman's quarters. Is she in there?
JANEWAY: I can't tell. Let's take a look. Stand ready.

[Wildman's quarters]
JANEWAY: Here's our comm. signal, your Good Morning Voyager program.
NEELIX: Ensign Wildman is one of my most dedicated viewers. According to the time index she activated this program approximately eleven hours ago.
JANEWAY: Why is it still running?
NEELIX: The program is set for automatic playback until it's turned off. The baby's missing too.
JANEWAY: According to the protein decay, I'd say Ensign Wildman replicated this eleven hours go. When we get to the bridge we'll check the communications logs. They might tell us whether or not

[Corridor]
NEELIX: There!
JANEWAY: I can't tell if it's humanoid, but it's emanating a bioelectric field.
NEELIX: Whatever it is, it just ran into a dead end.

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: Over here.
JANEWAY: Something just punched right through this floor panel into the Jefferies tubes.
NEELIX: What is it?
JANEWAY: Some sort of mucilaginous compound. High concentrations of amino acids and proteins, and fragments of non-humanoid DNA. Well, Ambassador, I'd say we've got an unexpected guest.
NEELIX: Somehow I don't think he's the diplomatic type.
JANEWAY: Main power is failing, and the environmental controls are going offline. Systems are starting to shut down one by one. We'd better get to the bridge.

[Turbolift]
JANEWAY: Good, we're still got auxiliary power. Deck one.
NEELIX: It's getting awfully hot in here.
JANEWAY: When environmental controls fail, heat from the warp plasma conduits can't be vented. Expect a heat wave before long.
NEELIX: No problem, I'm used to it. I grew up near the Rinax marshlands. Our summers were the hottest in the sector. Fifty degrees Celsius, ninety percent humidity, and the most vicious lavaflies you've ever seen.
JANEWAY: Summers in Indiana were pretty similar when I was growing up.
NEELIX: Except that we had three suns and the lavaflies grew to be six centimeters long.
JANEWAY: Six centimeters?
NEELIX: Insect repellant was a booming business.
JANEWAY: There's a life form in the turboshaft. I'm engaging the manual override.
NEELIX: Ah, Captain, it sounds like our guest has bought a few friends.
JANEWAY: One more second. I can't get the pneumatic conduits to
NEELIX: That was no lavafly.
JANEWAY: There's no lifeform in the tube above us. We're getting out of here.

[Jefferies tube]
JANEWAY: Are you all right?
NEELIX: Yes. Disgusting, but I'm all right.
JANEWAY: It's the same mucilaginous compound we saw in the transporter room. Come on.
NEELIX: What is it?
JANEWAY: Human lifesigns, very faint. Thirty or more.
NEELIX: Where are they coming from?
JANEWAY: Several decks above us. I can't pinpoint the location.
NEELIX: Maybe the crew is hiding from the aliens and they set up a defense perimeter.
JANEWAY: Maybe. One thing's for sure, whoever's up there is still alive. Once we get the main computer online, we'll be able to get a fix on their location.
NEELIX: It's so hot. My head is spinning.
JANEWAY: You've got a high fever, fluid in your lungs.
NEELIX: Lung.
JANEWAY: That alien compound is acting quickly. Try to hang on. Just three more decks.
NEELIX: Aye, aye, Captain.
NEELIX: Captain, go on without me.
JANEWAY: I'm not going to leave you here, Neelix.
NEELIX: I can't. I'm so dizzy.
JANEWAY: There should be an emergency medical kit up that tube. I'll bring back something to get you on your feet. Don't go away.
NEELIX (voiceover): Help! Captain!
JANEWAY: I'm coming, Neelix!
JANEWAY: Neelix! (Neelix has gone. A trail of mucus leads back down the Jefferies tube.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager to anyone within range. My ship has been seized by unknown lifeforms. Require any and all assistance.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Harry. Harry.
JANEWAY: Oh, Chakotay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Captain! Needless to say, I thought you were something else. It won't be long before the other aliens sense you here and start to try to invade sickbay. We don't have much time to treat you.
JANEWAY: Doctor, what's going on? What are those ow!
EMH: You've ruptured your dorsal extensor muscle and bruised two ribs. I'm going to have to perform minor surgery. Lie on your side and try to remain perfectly still.
JANEWAY: Tell me what's happened.
EMH: Voyager has been infected by a macrovirus.
JANEWAY: A macrovirus?
EMH: A form of life I've never encountered, or even imagined.
JANEWAY: What about the crew?
EMH: Captain, I promise I will tell you exactly what happened if you just lie still. Shortly after you'd left for the Tak Tak homeworld, we received a distress call from a nearby mining colony. A race called the Garans.

[EMH narrative - Sickbay]
EMH (voiceover): They were experiencing what appeared to be a minor viral outbreak,
GARAN MINER (screen): Fever, disorientation. I think it's some kind of virus. Nothing serious, but if we don't stop it now, we'll be forced to shut down the operation.
CHAKOTAY: We may be able to help you. Doctor?
EMH: A synthetic antigen may do the trick. However, it will have to be modified for this specific virus. I'd like to beam down to the mining colony and examine a few of the infected.
CHAKOTAY: An away mission.
EMH: I'm the only member of this crew who can successfully enter a contaminated environment without risk. Besides, I've been looking forward to spreading my wings.
CHAKOTAY: Good enough. It'll take us about three hours to reach you.
GARAN MINER (screen): Thank you, Commander. I don't think we'll be going anywhere.
EMH: Prepare to download my program into the autonomous emitter.
KES: Yes, Doctor.

[EMH narrative - Bridge]
TUVOK: They're not responding to our hails.
CHAKOTAY: Life signs?
KIM: There's a lot of bioelectrical interference. I can't get a clear reading.
EMH: Perhaps their condition is more serious than they thought. I'd better get down there.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, don't forget, you're not invulnerable. If anything happens to that portable emitter, your program could be lost.
EMH: Don't worry Commander, I've been studying the Starfleet guidelines for away team members. For this particular scenario, medical emergency on alien terrain, it is recommended that we keep an open comm. channel at all times.
CHAKOTAY: You heard the man.
TUVOK: Channel open.

[EMH narrative - Garan Mine]
EMH: Away team to Voyager. Transport was successful and my portable emitter is working perfectly. I am scanning the mine shaft and proceeding on vector one four seven. Ambient temperature is sixteen degrees Celsius. Cavern illumination is minimal but doesn't pose a problem for my optical sensors. The cave walls are comprised of granite with a mixture of pyroclastic infusions
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Doctor

[EMH narrative - Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your attention to detail but we don't need that much information. Let us know when you've found the miners.

[EMH narrative - Garan Mine]
EMH: Oh, very well. Stand by then. Voyager, I've found one of the miners. He appears to be suffering from the advanced stages of severe viral infection.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Can you treat him?
EMH: Not without a more specialized immunizing agent. This is curious. The virus has begun to concentrate in a region near his neck, and it's using his glandular tissue to create some sort of orifice. Something is emerging. A lifeform! Commander, I think I've just discovered a completely new form of life. From what I can tell, it appears to be a macroscopic version of the virus.
CHAKOTAY: You mean the virus has grown?
EMH: Yes, by a factor of billions. The virus absorbed the miner's growth hormones into it's protein structure, and used them to increase it's own mass and dimensions. In essence, the virus has found a way to leave the microscopic world and enter the macroscopic world. Our world. It's a remarkable evolutionary development. The virus appears to be attracted to infra-red radiation. It's mistaking my holomatrix for body heat. At the moment, this one's approximately point five millimeters in diameter, but it's continuing to grow at a rate of thirty microns every second! Commander, permission to beam the virus aboard for further analysis.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): No.

[EMH narrative - Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: The virus isn't in our database. The biofilters might not recognize it. You'll have to settle for tricorder data.

[EMH narrative - Garan Mine]
EMH: Very well, but I think I should. Stand by, Voyager. Hold on. Stop.
GARAN MINER: You, you've got to help us.
EMH: I intend to, but first I must return to my ship and prepare an antidote.
GARAN MINER: Take me with you.
EMH: I'm afraid that's not possible. We'd risk infecting the crew.
GARAN MINER: You can't leave me. Please.
EMH: Commander Chakotay. Perhaps if we established a force field around sickbay and beamed victims directly to
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I'm sorry, but I'm afraid we can't take the chance.
EMH: But these people need

[EMH narrative - Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, away team guidelines specifically forbid the transport of unknown infectious
EMH (voiceover): Of unknown infection agents onto a starship without establishing

[EMH narrative - Garan Mine]
EMH: Containment and eradication protocols. I understand. I'll do my best to help you. Away team to Voyager. One to beam up.

[EMH narrative - Transporter Room]
EMH: Doctor to Bridge. Checking the biofilters. It appears several viral organisms were beamed up as well. The biofilter

[EMH narrative - Bridge]
EMH (voiceover): Has isolated them.
CHAKOTAY: Purge the filters.
EMH (voiceover): Aye, sir.

[EMH narrative - Transporter Room]
EMH: Purging is complete. I'll be in sickbay.
EMH (voiceover): What I didn't realize was that in the few seconds it took me to purge the filters, some of the virus had already migrated into the transporter buffer.

[EMH narrative - Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: Any luck?
EMH: I'm creating a synthetic antigen that will inhibit the viruses ability to replicate, but I haven't quite figured out how to restore the infected cells to their original condition. As for the larger versions of the viruses, what I've the macrovirus, I would suggest a fly swatter.
CHAKOTAY: How long before the antigen's ready?
EMH: I'd say another twelve hours.
CHAKOTAY: That gives us time to rendezvous with the Captain. We'll deal with this after she's aboard.
EMH: Commander. I'd like to apologize for my over-zealous behavior on the away mission.
CHAKOTAY: Compassion is nothing to be sorry about, Doctor. It won't be the last time you're faced with a moral dilemma in the field. But if it makes you feel any better, your performance was exemplary.
EMH: Thank you.
KES: I told you he'd understand.
EMH: Yes, you did.
EMH (voiceover): We continued working on the antigen. Unfortunately the macrovirus was working faster. It had already moved from the transporter buffer into an adjacent system.

[EMH narrative - Mess hall]
PARIS: B'Elanna, thank God you're here. The natives are getting restless.
TORRES: What's the emergency?
PARIS: I volunteered to help out while Neelix is away on the trade mission. The heating array overloaded, it incinerated a twelve kilo pot roast and all the food replicators went offline.
TORRES: Mmm, looks delicious. Maybe there's a problem with the bioneural gel pack in the replicator panel.
PARIS: Actually, I'm a pretty good cook when Engineering's doing it's job.
TORRES: Oh, so this is my fault?
PARIS: Well the gel packs are your department, aren't they? Besides, what was I supposed to tell all these hungry, irritable people?
TORRES: You know, I think that there's a plasma relay on deck seven that really needs repair.
PARIS: Oh, no. You can't leave me now, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Oh, you need me. I'm touched. What's going on here? Looks like this gel pack has an infection. Half the neurodes have been burned out and the pack is filled with some kind of mucilaginous compound. Tom, call the Doctor and tell him
PARIS: B'Elanna!

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Were any other gel packs infected?
EMH: No, just the one in the mess hall. The ship is healthy. It's the crew we have to worry about. Your bones have healed, but the surrounding tissue will be sensitive for a few days.
JANEWAY: It's getting warmer in here, isn't it.
EMH: I'm afraid it's not just the ship, Captain, it's also you. You've been infected with the macrovirus. You're experiencing a high fever.
JANEWAY: Yes, on the bridge, I was bitten by one of them.
EMH: Your glandular system is already being affected. If I don't treat you now you'll end up like the rest of the crew. I've spent the past few hours perfecting the antigen, but I haven't tested it on a live subject yet.
JANEWAY: Looks like I'll have to be your guinea-pig, Doctor. The crew, why are they all in the mess hall and the cargo bays?
EMH: I believe the larger macroviruses are driven by some sort of instinct to assemble their host population.
JANEWAY: Tell me what happened after B'Elanna was exposed to the infected gel pack.
EMH: I was faced with an imminent epidemic.

[EMH narrative - Mess hall]
EMH: Oh, no. Doctor to the Bridge. The macrovirus is on board Voyager and appears to be airborne. I suggest a level four quarantine of the mess hall

[EMH narrative - Bridge]
EMH (voiceover): and all adjoining sections.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. Red Alert. Initiate level four quarantine protocols on deck two.
TUVOK: Aye sir.
CHAKOTAY: All hands, this is Commander Chakotay. We've detected an airborne virus in the mess hall. Deck two is under quarantine. No crewmember, repeat, no crewmember is to enter or leave any section on deck two. Stand by for further instructions.
TUVOK: I've erected the biocontainment fields. The area has been sealed.

[EMH narrative - Mess hall]
EMH (voiceover): We managed to avoid a ship-wide outbreak, but every crew member on deck two had been contaminated. I collected a single live specimen of the macrovirus and returned to sickbay in hopes of finding a cure.

[EMH narrative - Sickbay]
KES: Ready, Doctor.
EMH: Optimal magnification.
KES: The specimen has synthesized B'Elanna's growth hormone into its own structure.
EMH: Excellent! That should give us the information we need to destroy the virus without killing its host cells.
KES: The virus has grown by one hundred and fifty microns.
EMH: It's rate of growth shouldn't hinder our analysis, as long as it's genetic structure stays the same.
KES: Doctor!
EMH: Computer, erect a level three forcefield around the microscope station.

[EMH narrative - Mess hall]
PARIS: Well, so much for lunch.
TORRES: I may never look at food again.
PARIS: I thought Klingons didn't get nauseated. You have a redundant stomach.
TORRES: Well, right now, they're both unhappy. Oh.
PARIS: Paris to sickbay.
EMH (voiceover): Go ahead, Lieutenant.
PARIS: I just saw two macroviruses come out of B'Elanna's neck.
EMH (voiceover): Stand by, Mister Paris.

[EMH narrative - Sickbay]
EMH: We're close to formulating an antigen.
KES: The virus has grown to point three meters.
EMH: On the microscopic level, the virus uses that needle-like projection to penetrate a cell membrane. On our level, it probably impales it's victim in much the same way, infusing him with it's own genetic code. The antigen is ready. Kes? Computer, deactivate force field.
EMH: Well. One down, ten billion to go.

[EMH narrative - Mess hall]
EMH (voiceover): Eager to inoculate those already infected, I quickly headed for the quarantined area. Though their condition had grown worse, it was the least of our problems.
EMH: Lieutenant, if you can hear me, I'm going to give you an injection. It should eliminate the virus.
PARIS: What, what is that?
EMH: You don't want to know.
EMH: Doctor to the Bridge. Intruder alert on deck two section thirteen.
EMH (voiceover): Within minutes, dozens of the larger organisms forced their way beyond deck two and overwhelmed the ship.

[Sickbay]
EMH: It wasn't long before the crew was incapacitated. Although I've developed an effective vaccine, I can't administer it. Every time I try to get to the crew, I'm attacked. Perhaps with your help?
JANEWAY: How many of the larger macroviruses are there?
EMH: I have no way of knowing. Dozens, perhaps hundreds. They're replicating at an exponential rate. By this time tomorrow there could be thousands.
JANEWAY: Speak of the devil.
EMH: You're cured.
JANEWAY: The question is, how do we cure the rest of the crew? This antigen. Can it be distributed in a gaseous form?
EMH: For absorption by the respiratory system? I've already considered dispensing it through Environmental controls, but they're offline and I have limited engineering expertise.
JANEWAY: Leave that to me. All we have to do is get to Environmental Control on deck twelve.
EMH: Easier said than done. We'll run into the same problem I face when I try to get to the Mess hall.
JANEWAY: Not if I can help it. Prepare two canisters of antigen. We'll split up and take two different routes to Environmental Control. It'll double our chances. If you get there first, call me and I'll talk you through the repairs.
EMH: The macroviruses are attracted to infra-red radiation. Set your tricorder to emit a thermal scattering signal. It will make it more difficult to target you. Ready when you are.
JANEWAY: We'll be right with you.

[Jefferies tube]
JANEWAY: Take Jefferies tube eleven. What's wrong?
EMH: I've been studying the ship's infrastructure, and I'm familiar with most of it, but, how do I get there from here?
JANEWAY: Jefferies tube eleven. Take a left at Section 31 and straight down past the tractor beam emitter until you hit deck ten. Get out at section three and follow the corridor all the way around until
EMH: Until I hit the shuttlebay. Then I crawl through access port nine, go past three airlocks and then two decks down. Environmental Control's at the end of the hall. Now I remember. Who designed this ship anyway?
JANEWAY: Good luck.

[Corridor]
EMH (voiceover): Doctor to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
EMH (voiceover): I won't be joining you as soon as I'd hoped.

[Shuttlecraft]
EMH: The macroviruses overwhelmed me on deck ten and my portable emitter was nearly destroyed. I've taken refuge inside the shuttlebay, in a shuttlecraft.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Stay put, Doctor. I'm close to Environmental Control.

[Environmental Control]
JANEWAY: Janeway to Doctor. I've got the Environmental Controls back online.
EMH (voiceover): Set the dispersal nodes to one part per thousand.

[Shuttlecraft]
EMH: What's going on?
JANEWAY (voiceover): I'm not sure

[Environmental Control]
JANEWAY: But I think someone's firing at Voyager. Doctor, use the shuttle's sensors to find out what's happening and patch the data to me.
EMH (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: It's the Tak Tak. Doctor, open a channel and hail their Captain.
EMH (voiceover): Stand by.
JANEWAY: Consul, this is Captain Janeway. Why are you firing at us?
CONSUL (screen): The Garan Mining Colony infected. We purified them. Your distress call received. Voyager infected. We are purifying you.
JANEWAY: Purifying? You're trying to destroy us.
CONSUL (screen): No choice. No cure for the virus. Voyager's existence a threat. Your illness, our apologies.
JANEWAY: Wait. We've developed a cure but your torpedoes just stopped us getting it to our crew and putting an end to this.
CONSUL (screen): A cure?
JANEWAY: Yes. A synthetic antigen. We've tested it and it works. I can prove it to you, and I'd be willing to share the antigen with your people, but first you've got to stop attacking my ship. Give me a chance to save my crew.
CONSUL (screen): A chance. One hour.
JANEWAY: Doctor, we've got a problem. That last torpedo destroyed the secondary power couplings. I can't

[Shuttlecraft]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Get the Environmental Controls back online.
EMH: We appear to be low on options.

[Environmental Control]
JANEWAY: The only systems we still have access to are the ones with independent power sources. Shuttlecraft, life support, the holodecks. Doctor, you said the macroviruses are attracted to infra-red signatures.
EMH (voiceover): That's right.
JANEWAY: Right now you and I are the only targets left on board. What if we gave them something new to sink their teeth into?

[Shuttlecraft]
EMH: What are you suggesting?

[Environmental Control]
JANEWAY: Doctor, it seems to be working. I've programmed the holo-characters to react to the viruses. We don't have much time. Grab your hypospray and get to the crew. You've got a clear path to the Mess hall and both cargo bays.
EMH (voiceover): Acknowledged. What about you, Captain?
JANEWAY: I've put together what you might call an antigen bomb. Now all I have to do is drop it.

[Shuttlecraft]
EMH: Doctor to Captain Janeway. Captain, please respond.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
EMH (voiceover): It worked. The macroviruses have been destroyed.
JANEWAY: And the ship?

[Shuttlecraft]
EMH: There was heavy damage suffered on Holodeck two, but there are no hull breaches in evidence.

[Environmental Control]
CONSUL (screen): Astonishment. Your vessel, purified.
JANEWAY: And we'd be willing to share the cure with you, if you'd be kind enough to forego destroying our ship.
CONSUL (screen): Of course, of course. Purification will cease. My word. Many thanks to Captain of Voyager. Good health.
JANEWAY: Good health.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Good morning, Captain. Here's an update on repairs.
JANEWAY: How's the crew holding up?
CHAKOTAY: They're fine, although the Doctor tells me a few people are still reporting post-viral queasiness.
JANEWAY: I'm not surprised. Inform the crew that I'm granting extended R&R for all personnel, and work out the shift rotations.
CHAKOTAY: Aye Captain. Speaking of R&R, a few of us are going skiing on the holodeck. The Ktarian glaciers. Fresh air, good work out. Care to join us?
JANEWAY: No, thank you, but have fun.
CHAKOTAY: Not your cup of tea?
JANEWAY: Oh, on the contrary, I love to ski. Let's just say I've had enough of a workout for the time being.
CHAKOTAY: Understood.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Mister Tuvok! Mister Tuvok! I was supposed to accompany you on security rounds this morning. Did you forget?
TUVOK: I was not aware that we had a definite appointment.
NEELIX: I'm sure it was definite. Well, maybe not completely definite. That is, I, I'd expressed my desire to learn the ropes as it were, and I have completed my study of starship security protocols. I think you'll find that I'm fully qualified to serve in the capacity of a Starfleet security officer. Junior grade, of course.
TUVOK: If you recall, Mister Neelix, I did not guarantee you a position.
NEELIX: But Captain Janeway is always saying that Voyager is a ship of opportunity.
TUVOK: That is true, but opportunities for promotion on a starship must be earned.
NEELIX: I've been working hard at this. I really do feel I have a great deal to contribute to Voyager beyond my current role.
TUVOK: Your dedication is duly noted, Mister Neelix. Now if you'll excuse me, I am due on the bridge.
NEELIX: I'll see you first thing tomorrow morning for security rounds!

[Engineering]
TORRES: Ensign Vorik. Get me a duotronic probe, I'm having trouble regulating the plasma flow.
VORIK: May I suggest a gravitic caliper instead? You might find it a more precise instrument.
TORRES: Good idea, but bring me both.
NEELIX: Good morning, B'Elanna. You missed my special Klingon Breakfast Buffet.
TORRES: I'm sorry Neelix, but a bowl of cold gagh is not my idea of how to start a morning.
NEELIX: Well, you're not alone. None of the crew seemed especially enthusiastic about it. What's the problem with er, the plasma injectors? I've been getting myself up to speed on Federation warp propulsion.
TORRES: The plasma flow in the manifold seems to be constricted.
NEELIX: Ah. Have you thought of phase locking them to the dilithium matrix?
TORRES: That was the first thing I did.
NEELIX: Oh. I really am interested in learning more about engineering systems, maybe even volunteering for a few duty shifts. In fact, I have a couple of questions about the impulse response filters.
TORRES: Neelix, Neelix, this really isn't a good time.
NEELIX: Oh. I understand, Lieutenant. Sorry. I'll just watch for a while, if you don't mind.
VORIK: Here are the tools, sir.
NEELIX: I also had a question about the transporter buffers.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Mister Neelix, please report to the bridge.
NEELIX: On my way, Captain.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Neelix, we seem to be approaching some kind of interstellar dust clouds. Can you tell us anything about them? They look rather ominous to me.
NEELIX: I believe this is a region of space known as the Nekrit Expanse.
JANEWAY: What can you tell us about this Expanse, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: It's a vast territory. No one knows much about it.
JANEWAY: Those plasma storms might be a problem for navigation. Full sensor scan, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Can we plot a course around it?
NEELIX: That might be advisable.
TUVOK: I don't believe so. It's thousands of light years wide.
JANEWAY: Then we'll have to go through it. Looks like we'll be counting on your knowledge of the Delta quadrant even more than usual, Neelix.
NEELIX: Yes, ma'am. I'm at your command, as always.
JANEWAY: Will there be any planets where we can take on supplies?
NEELIX: There is a station near the border, a kind of supply depot for mining and trading ships. I suggest we stop there for provisions before we go into the Nekrit Expanse.
JANEWAY: What are the coordinates?
NEELIX: Er, let's see. It's actually been a while.
CHAKOTAY: I have the station on sensors, Captain. Three point four light years away, heading oh seven one mark one seven.
JANEWAY: You heard him, Tom.
PARIS: On our way.
TUVOK: We're being hailed, Captain.
JANEWAY: On screen. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager.
BAHRAT (screen): Bahrat, manager of this station. What can I do for you?
JANEWAY: Your station is a trading outpost, isn't it? I'd like permission to come aboard to negotiate for supplies.
BAHRAT (screen): Granted. But understand that any transaction you negotiate on this station is subject to my approval. I receive a twenty percent commission on all trade. Your whereabouts will be closely monitored. Communications with your ship may also be monitored, at my discretion. Do you agree to these conditions?
JANEWAY: Evidently I have no choice
BAHRAT (screen): Excellent. Meet me in my office in one hour and we'll discuss your needs.
PARIS: Pleasant fellow.
JANEWAY: Neelix, Chakotay, Tom. You're with me.

[Bahrat's office]
JANEWAY: Mister Bahrat?
BAHRAT: What is it?
JANEWAY: I'm Kathryn Janeway. I've brought a list of the supplies we'll need.
BAHRAT: Forgive me, but it's demanding work watching over this station. We get all kinds of troublemakers here.
JANEWAY: I understand.
BAHRAT: All right, let's see it. Hmm. Hmm mmm. Hmm! Pergium.
JANEWAY: To regenerate the filters on our environmental control system.
BAHRAT: That might be a little difficult. It's a rare commodity. Give me a few moments and I'll put together a list of potential suppliers. But I'll warn you, they won't strike easy bargains.
JANEWAY: I'm prepared to deal fairly.
BAHRAT: Hmm.

[Station promenade]
SUTOK: Good day, gentlemen, good day. Anything in particular you're looking for? Anything I can help you with?
CHAKOTAY: We were hoping to find some magnetic spindle bearings for our reaction control assembly.
SUTOK: Spindle bearing, spindle bearings. No, can't help you with that. No. Long voyage ahead?
PARIS: Er, you could say that.
SUTOK: I might have something that could ease your journey. Ease it considerably. Rhuludian crystals. Ingesting just one of these will make days of tedious travel seem like moments of exquisite rapture.
PARIS: No, thank you.
SUTOK: The price is surprisingly
CHAKOTAY: No.
PARIS: Nice place.
NEELIX: I see you're a map dealer.
MAP DEALER: I have coordinate charts for all the local mining colonies.
NEELIX: Actually, I'm interested in maps of the Nekrit Expanse.
MAP DEALER: You must be a stranger here or you'd know. There aren't any maps of that region.
NEELIX: Surely there's an astrometric chart or a database that would help me plot a safe course?
MAP DEALER: The Nekrit Expanse is too unstable to chart.
WIXIBAN: No matter. He never could plot a straight course anyway.
NEELIX: Wixiban? Wix, is that you? I can't believe it!
WIXIBAN: What are you doing here? I've never seen another Talaxian this far from home.
NEELIX: It's a long story. I'm one of the crew of a highly advanced starship.
WIXIBAN: Ah! I want to hear all about it. Come on, the tavern here serves the best toffa ale I've had in years.

[Station tavern]
NEELIX: I do a little of everything. Cook, guide, advisor to the Captain, possibly even an unofficial Ambassador.
WIXIBAN: Oh ho, ho. Life's been good to you.
NEELIX: Yes, I'm very, I'm very lucky. But what about you? What are you doing on this station?
WIXIBAN: A little of this, a little of that. To tell you the truth, things haven't gone quite so well for me.
NEELIX: I'm sorry.
WIXIBAN: Ever since that nasty business with the Ubeans, things have been difficult. But, you know me, can't keep Wix down long. I'm working on a trade deal now that should put me right back in the thick of things again.
NEELIX: I hope it works out. Er, Wix, about the Ubeans. I don't think I ever told you how much I valued what you did.
WIXIBAN: You'd have done the same for me.
NEELIX: Yes, I would have. But you were the one who got caught. I owe you a great deal. If there's anything I can do to help.
WIXIBAN: I'm fine, honestly. Maybe not on the crew of a magnificent starship, but I'll get by.
NEELIX: To tell you the truth, it's not quite what I told you. In fact I may not be on Voyager much longer.
WIXIBAN: Why?
NEELIX: The main reason Captain Janeway needed me was as a guide, to give her information about this quadrant. But I've never been beyond the Nekrit Expanse. I can't tell her anything about what's ahead.
WIXIBAN: But, your other jobs. Cook, Ambassador.
NEELIX: They don't really need a cook, and I don't think our Captain really requires an Ambassador. I've tried to find some other area where I might be useful, but, the truth is, I'm not needed. I'm hoping you can help me. I can't let Voyager go into that dangerous without some idea of what's there. I have to find a map.

[Mess hall]
VORIK: Can I be of help, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: Dinner isn't for an hour, Ensign Vorik, and I don't have time to prepare a snack.
VORIK: I don't require food at the moment. Lieutenant Torres sent me to adjust the control interface on your food replicators. You said you were experiencing difficulties with them.
NEELIX: Oh, of course. Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix. I thought you'd like to say hello to your old friend.
NEELIX: Well, er, yes. Yes, of course.
WIXIBAN: So, this is where you prepare your legendary feasts. You know, Commander, Neelix has more varied talents than anyone I've ever known. You're lucky to have him on board.
CHAKOTAY: Mister Wix was able to find those magnetic spindle bearings we were looking for. I don't know what we'd have done if he hadn't come up them.
NEELIX: Well, yes, Wix has always had a knack for finding those hard to locate items.
CHAKOTAY: I'll let you two reminisce for a while. Thanks again, Wix.
WIXIBAN: You're more than welcome.
NEELIX: Yes, this is the Mess room. On any given day I must be prepared to feed over a hundred people. About done, Ensign?
VORIK: Not quite.
NEELIX: Well I really don't need the replicators today, so you can finish later.
VORIK: As you wish.
NEELIX: Oh, and remind Lieutenant Torres. When she has a moment, I'd still like to go over a few things with her.
VORIK: I'll relay the message.
NEELIX: Thank you.
NEELIX: Wix, please tell me those spindle bearings weren't stolen property.
WIXIBAN: Of course not. I wouldn't do that to you. Neelix, I need the work. I don't live on a comfortable starship. No one looks out for me except me. Maybe you've forgotten what that feels like.
NEELIX: I haven't forgotten.
WIXIBAN: I've been stuck on that trash heap of a space station for three years. My ship's been impounded. I can't afford to give Bahrat what he wants to get it back. Do you begrudge me an opportunity to make a fair trade?
NEELIX: Of course not.
WIXIBAN: I have news for you. I've located some pergium for your ship.
NEELIX: That's great news. Captain Janeway hasn't had any luck.
WIXIBAN: And I've found someone with a map.
NEELIX: Wonderful! How do we get it?
WIXIBAN: It'll involve several bartering sessions. I have the opportunity to sell medical supplies to an outpost whose people are dying of a lung disease. It's a good cause, and it will make me enough to pay Bahrat and get my ship back.
NEELIX: Where does the map come in?
WIXIBAN: When I deliver the medical supplies, one of the physicians will give me an astrometric chart.
NEELIX: I can't thank you enough.
WIXIBAN: I'll have to ask your help though. We'll need a shuttle. First, we have to get to a nearby freighter to pick up the medical supplies. Then we return to the space station and meet with one of the physicians from the outpost. With your transporter technology we could be in and out of the station within minutes. Then I could finally get away from here and get back to a Talaxian colony.
NEELIX: I don't think that would be a problem.
WIXIBAN: Just one thing. Don't tell anyone that we're delivering medical supplies to the station. Not even one person. If Bahrat finds out he'll take twenty percent, and I can't afford that.
NEELIX: I suppose there's no need to mention it.
WIXIBAN: Thanks, Neelix. I knew I could count on you.

[Shuttlecraft]
WIXIBAN: Didn't I tell you this would be easy? I got the medical supplies and you got the pergium your ship needs so badly.
NEELIX: Only twenty kilograms. I told Commander Chakotay it would be forty five.
WIXIBAN: You're lucky to get what you did. Come on, Neelix, A few minutes more and we'll be done. And you'll have a map to help you through the Nekrit Expanse. What is the matter with you?
NEELIX: I don't like keeping the whole truth from Commander Chakotay. It's not honest.
WIXIBAN: I don't remember you ever being so squeamish about twisting the truth.
NEELIX: Wix, I'm not what I used to be.
WIXIBAN: Neither am I. We've both tried to change our lives. You've done it. Now I have the same chance. We're almost there. We should have your transporter take us to corridor fourteen L, near the outer docking ports. It's hardly ever used. Our contact will meet us there.
NEELIX: We're within transporter range. I've entered the coordinates.
NEELIX: What are you doing?
WIXIBAN: This station is a dangerous place, and these supplies are valuable. We have to be able to defend ourselves.
NEELIX: You said this would be easy.
WIXIBAN: It's just a precaution. Let's go.
NEELIX: Computer, energize.

[Space Station - Corridor 14L]
NEELIX: Where's your contact?
WIXIBAN: He'll be here, don't worry.
NEELIX: I don't like this, meeting in dark passages late at night.
SUTOK: Wix.
WIXIBAN: Sutok. This is my associate.
SUTOK: You have the supplies?
WIXIBAN: As promised.
NEELIX: What's he doing?
WIXIBAN: Satisfied?
SUTOK: Completely.
NEELIX: What kind of medical supplies are those?
WIXIBAN: If you give me my payment, we'll be on our way.
SUTOK: Yes. I have it right here.
MAN: Stop them! Get his weapon!
NEELIX: Wix!
MAN: Someone's coming!
WIXIBAN: Neelix! Get us out of here.
NEELIX: Computer, two to beam up.

[Shuttlecraft]
NEELIX: You lied to me from the beginning and I was foolish enough to believe you!
WIXIBAN: It should have been as easy as I said. I didn't know Sutok would try to steal the tubes.
NEELIX: Those aren't ordinary medical supplies. You failed to mention that.
WIXIBAN: They do have a medicinal application, but no one would pay what I was supposed to get if they were just simple medications.
NEELIX: They're narcotics, aren't they. Oh, you're up to your same old tricks. We have to talk to Captain Janeway as soon as we get back.
WIXIBAN: Do you really want to do that? How is it going to look to your shipmates when they find out you were once a contraband smuggler, and that you were involved in this ugly business tonight? You think your position on Voyager is precarious now? Wait till they discover the whole truth about you.
NEELIX: I can't just forget about this.
WIXIBAN: So you'd let Bahrat put me in cryostatic suspension? I guess you would. You did let me spend a year in that Ubean prison.
NEELIX: Wix.
WIXIBAN: I never told you what it was like in there, did I? About eating worms to stay alive. Sleeping in a cell where the vermin chew on you all night. Being punished in ways you couldn't imagine.
NEELIX: All right! I won't say anything. But I don't want to have anything more to do with you. The debt is paid.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. I have called a meeting of the senior staff to inform them of some very disturbing news I have just received

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: There's been a murder aboard the station.
CHAKOTAY: Murder?
JANEWAY: I've been told that's not an uncommon occurrence here. The man who dies has been suspected of criminal activity. Mister Bahrat, however, discovered something at the scene of the killing that greatly concerns me.
BAHRAT: During my investigation I discovered some energy readings I couldn't identify, so I ran a spectral analysis.
JANEWAY: He showed me the analysis just a few minutes ago. It's a Federation phaser signature. Tuvok will be assisting Mister Bahrat in his investigation. I want to know how a weapon from Voyager could have been involved in this incident.
BAHRAT: The shooting took place in an abandoned section of the station. Security scanners were disabled. I'm reviewing other surveillance records, looking for anything that might help me apprehend whoever did this.
JANEWAY: I've promised Mister Bahrat the full cooperation of every member of this crew during his investigation. Dismissed.

[Tuvok's office]
NEELIX: You wanted to see me, Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: Please, sit down. I examined the scene of the shooting and confirmed the Federation weapon signature. A type two phaser blast. Fourteen Voyager crewmembers were off the ship at the time of the incident.
NEELIX: I see.
TUVOK: Several traders from the station were aboard Voyager on the day of the incident. We can't rule out the possibility that one of them managed to steal a phaser.
NEELIX: I suppose not.
TUVOK: What can you tell me about your friend Wixiban?
NEELIX: Wix?
TUVOK: Mister Chakotay reported that he was aboard Voyager.
NEELIX: Ah, yes. He delivered some magnetic bearings. We're more like acquaintances, not friends really. I haven't seen him in years.
TUVOK: Has he ever been involved in criminal activity?
NEELIX: I wouldn't know. I certainly don't think so.
TUVOK: I must question him, and I would appreciate your accompanying me.
NEELIX: Me? What could I do?
TUVOK: You may be able to help me evaluate the verisimilitude of his answers.
NEELIX: I see.
TUVOK: Please meet me in transporter room two at eighteen hundred hours.

[Station bar]
TUVOK: How much time did you spend aboard Voyager?
WIXIBAN: Probably less than an hour altogether.
TUVOK: Were you ever alone on the ship?
WIXIBAN: No. I was met by Mister Chakotay in your transporter room. Extraordinary experience, that transporter of yours. We delivered bearings to Lieutenant Torres, then Mister Chakotay and I paid a visit to my old friend Neelix in your mess hall.
TUVOK: Where were you at the time of the shooting?
WIXIBAN: In bed, asleep.
TUVOK: Can anyone corroborate that?
WIXIBAN: Alas, Mister Tuvok, I sleep alone.
TUVOK: That will be all for now, Mister Wix.
NEELIX: I'd like to stay for a glass of toffa ale.
TUVOK: As you wish, but please see me as soon as you return to the ship.
NEELIX: Yeah.
NEELIX: I'd forgotten how easy it is for you to lie.
WIXIBAN: You're not suggesting I tell him the truth?
NEELIX: Vulcan's aren't as easily fooled as you might think.
WIXIBAN: If you want to worry, I'll give you something to worry about.
NEELIX: What?
WIXIBAN: The people I was conducting that transaction for aren't happy that they didn't get paid.
NEELIX: I thought this was your scheme?
WIXIBAN: Do you think I could have afforded those tubes? I was acting as an agent for some Kolaati traders. Do you know anything about the Kolaati? They're mean as fire snakes. They will kill us, and it won't be quick.
NEELIX: I can't believe this is happening. Why did I ever listen to you!
WIXIBAN: Neelix, it's all right. I've convinced them to take something else in payment. Something easily come by. They know about Voyager. They want a sample of your ship's warp plasma. They'll be able to use it to increase the efficiency of their engines.
NEELIX: No. It's wrong. I won't do it. This has to stop.
WIXIBAN: You should have thought of that in the beginning. You're in too deeply now.
NEELIX: The people on Voyager are my friends. I can't steal from them.
WIXIBAN: Friends? You've already told me they're ready to put you off the ship. You're living in a dream world. It's time to wake up. You're on your own, just as I am, and you're going to die a horrible death at the hands of the Kolaati unless you bring them three grams of warp plasma. Do you understand that? I've already told them you'll do it. Meet me here tomorrow morning at nine hundred hours.

[Storage room]
PARIS: Hey, Neelix, what's up?
NEELIX: Oh, nothing. Just thought I might give you a hand with whatever it is you're doing.
PARIS: Oh, you may regret that. Chakotay and I have to pick up a supply of biomimetic gel tomorrow morning, and I am trying to find to find the container that is listed as the proper transport device. Starfleet standard issue L647X7.
NEELIX: Well, sounds like another set of eyes won't hurt. M34, no not that one. L647. No, it's Y6. Tom, if it's not too bold of me, I wonder if I could ask you something?
PARIS: Sure, anything.
NEELIX: I've heard you were in some trouble in the past. Spent time in prison.
PARIS: That's right.
NEELIX: Do you, would you, tell me how you got in trouble?
PARIS: I've thought a lot about that, and it comes down to one simple fact. I didn't tell the truth. I made a mistake, which happens to people, but if I'd admitted that mistake it would have been a lot better. But I lied about it, and it nearly ruined my life. Why do you ask?
NEELIX: Oh, no reason. Just wondered. Here's your container.
PARIS: After I've done here, a bunch of us are going to go down to the resort. Why don't you come along?
NEELIX: Thanks, but I'm going to turn in early. Maybe another time.
PARIS: Okay.

[Engineering]
NEELIX: Good evening, Ensign.
VORIK: Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: I thought I'd log a little time in the Jefferies tubes, if that's all right.
VORIK: I was unaware you were officially on an engineering work detail.
NEELIX: Oh, it's not official, not at all, but Lieutenant Torres has been good enough to allow me to poke around here and there. As time permits, of course.
VORIK: She has mentioned your desire to become familiar with Starfleet engineering protocols. I see no reason why you can't proceed.
NEELIX: Thank you. Ensign Vorik.
VORIK: Yes, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: You're quite young. Is it difficult for you being so far away from everything that's familiar?
VORIK: Had I been given the choice, I might not have chosen to explore the Delta Quadrant. However, since we are here, I must say the challenges are intriguing.
NEELIX: Voyager is a wonderful place to be. People here are very fortunate.
VORIK: I would concur.

[Station promenade]
WIXIBAN: Did you get it? Where is it?
NEELIX: I have to talk to you.
WIXIBAN: Give it to me.
NEELIX: I didn't get the warp plasma.
WIXIBAN: What?
NEELIX: I couldn't do it. I just couldn't. We have to tell the truth. It's the only way to make things right.
WIXIBAN: We're dead men, Neelix.
NEELIX: No. I have a plan.
BAHRAT: You two! Stay where you are!
WIXIBAN: Don't panic, stay calm.
BAHRAT: I said, stay where you are!
PARIS: What is this?
BAHRAT: You two are under arrest.
PARIS: Arrest?
CHAKOTAY: What's the charge?
BAHRAT: Conspiring with known drug traffickers. And murder. Let's go!

[Bahrat's office]
BAHRAT: This is the criminal who was killed, and these are the two men we arrested.
JANEWAY: You can't seriously regard this as viable evidence.
BAHRAT: I realize it's circumstantial, but it is compelling.
JANEWAY: It proves absolutely nothing.
BAHRAT: It proves your two men had a conversation with a narcotics dealer only hours before he was killed.
TUVOK: As the Captain said, that proves nothing.
BAHRAT: I'm holding them for questioning. They are prime suspects.
JANEWAY: I want my security officer present during all interrogations.
BAHRAT: I'll take that into consideration. But make no mistake about this. Someone will serve fifty years of cryostatic suspension for that murder. If I were to let this go unpunished, it would be anarchy on this station within days.
JANEWAY: You make no mistake about this. I won't allow members of my crew to be condemned for a crime they did not commit.

[Station promenade]
NEELIX: This has gone too far. We have to go to Bahrat.
WIXIBAN: We'll end up in his cryostatic prison for decades.
NEELIX: Not if he agrees to my plan.
WIXIBAN: Your plan is crazy. It's worse than prison, it's a death sentence.
NEELIX: That would be better than living a lie. I'm going whether you do or not.
WIXIBAN: Neelix! We've been through too much together. I can't let you do this alone.

[Bahrat's office]
NEELIX: It was a type two Federation phaser that was used. It's on one of our shuttles. You can get it from our security officer to verify the energy signature.
BAHRAT: Which of you fired the weapon?
NEELIX: We were both involved in all aspects of the crime.
WIXIBAN: I was the one with the weapon, but I fired in self-defense.
NEELIX: So you see, Commander Chakotay and Lieutenant Paris are innocent.
BAHRAT: The punishment for trafficking in illicit substances is fifty years of cryostatic imprisonment.
NEELIX: Your cryostatic prison isn't a particularly effective deterrent, is it?
BAHRAT: It certainly is. There's very little narcotics trafficking that goes on here.
WIXIBAN: That's what you think. The Kolaati have made a fortune trading drugs here.
BAHRAT: I know everything that happens on this station.
NEELIX: Apparently not, since we were able to deliver narcotics to known criminals right under your nose.
WIXIBAN: They have ways of disabling your surveillance systems, masking your sensors, creating false visual signals. It happens almost every night.
BAHRAT: I'll put a stop to that.
NEELIX: Since you don't know how they do it, that might prove difficult. But we have a plan. The Kolaati want a sample of warp plasma from Voyager.
WIXIBAN: I'll arrange a meeting with them to deliver the plasma. When they arrive, we'll take them into custody.
BAHRAT: How do you plan to do that? You won't be able to carry weapons, and if they thought my men and I were near, they'd be gone in a second.
NEELIX: We have some ideas. If we are able to turn them over to you, will you agree not to charge us with a crime?
BAHRAT: It's no risk to me. You'll undoubtedly perish in this ridiculous scheme.
NEELIX: You'll have to provide us with a sample of warp plasma. I won't take any from Voyager.
BAHRAT: What I can give you won't be of the same quality.
NEELIX: Doesn't matter. We'll make do.
BAHRAT: All right, we'll try it. But I don't hold any hopes that you will survive.

[Space Station - Corridor 14L]
NEELIX: It's been over twenty minutes. Where are they?
WIXIBAN: I confirmed the time and place. They should be here. Maybe they've realized it's a trap? Maybe they're not going to show up?
NEELIX: Let's hope they do, or we will end up in Bahrat's prison.

[Bahrat's office]
BAHRAT: It looks like someone's begun transmitting a false visual signal. My guess is they're about to come aboard. We'll give them five minutes, and then move in.

[Space Station - Corridor 14L]
WIXIBAN: It's Tosin.
NEELIX: Who?
WIXIBAN: He's one of the most powerful Kolaati.
NEELIX: Good evening, gentlemen. My name is Neelix and I
TOSIN: The warp plasma, where is it?
WIXIBAN: It's right in here, Tosin, but first you must guarantee us
TOSIN: You'll live for today. No guarantees about tomorrow. Give me the plasma. Slowly.
TOSIN: Twenty parts per million isonucleic residue? This is contaminated. You promised me a pure sample.
NEELIX: It doesn't matter, because you're under arrest.
TOSIN: What?
NEELIX: I said, you're being taken into custody for smuggling contraband and narcotic substances. Very serious offenses aboard this station, Mister Tosin. It's time you faced up to that.
TOSIN: Little man, your days have ended.
NEELIX: I wouldn't fire that weapon if I were you. That plasma canister you're holding. I disengaged the safety nodes just as you came in. Even as we speak, warp plasma is leaking from it. This section of the station is filling with plasma particles. Fire your weapon and you'll set off an explosion that would undoubtedly kill us all.
WIXIBAN: He's telling the truth, Tosin. Don't do it.
NEELIX: And I wouldn't activate your transporter system, if I were you. The beam would also destabilize the plasma. Same effect. Boom.
TOSIN: Then you will die with me, little man.
NEELIX: No problem at all, if it means getting rid of an Orillian lung maggot like you. Go ahead. You'd be doing me a favor. I have nothing to lose. Fire away!
WIXIBAN: Neelix.
NEELIX: Shoot. What are you waiting for? Fire!
TOSIN: Re-engage the safety nodes.
BAHRAT: Don't bother. Put down your weapons. You're under arrest for violating station code four two seven nine, subsection beta three two five.
TOSIN: No! Don't!

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: I'm in sickbay?
EMH: Yes, Mister Neelix. You sustained third degree plasma burns and a moderate concussion, but my skills have prevented you from suffering permanent damage.
NEELIX: Thank you, Doctor.
TUVOK: One of the criminals was killed in the plasma explosion. The others have been taken into custody by Mister Bahrat.
KES: Chakotay and Tom were released.
NEELIX: Oh, good. And Wix?
TUVOK: Mister Wixiban was given his shuttle. He sent you his thanks before making a hasty departure.
JANEWAY: Would all of you excuse us, please? I'd like to talk to Neelix alone.
JANEWAY: Well, do you have anything to say for yourself?
NEELIX: Only that I'm terribly sorry.
JANEWAY: Oh. You're sorry. Is that supposed to make everything better? I don't really care whether you're sorry or not, Neelix. At this point it doesn't matter. I can't imagine what made you behave the way you did, lying to us, sneaking around behind our backs, covering up criminal activity. Did you have some misguided reason to think this was acceptable behavior?
NEELIX: No, ma'am.
JANEWAY: You've been one of my most trusted advisors since we began this journey. How can I ever trust you again? How can I ever listen to you without wondering whether you're telling the truth or not?
NEELIX: I've never been dishonest to you before, I swear, Captain. I just took one step. A step that seemed perfectly reasonable. And that step lead to another and another, and before I knew what I was involved in something I didn't know how to handle.
JANEWAY: What was it? What was so important that you were willing to throw away your principles?
NEELIX: I needed a map.
JANEWAY: A map?
NEELIX: Captain, my usefulness to you was at an end. I don't know anything about space beyond this point. I couldn't let you go into the Nekrit Expanse without knowing what you faced.
JANEWAY: You've been on this ship for two years. I'd think by now you'd have learned that the first duty of any Starfleet officer is the truth. You violated that duty, Neelix, and there will be consequences.
NEELIX: I'm prepared to leave the ship, Captain.
JANEWAY: Oh no, it's not that easy. You can't just walk away from your responsibilities just because you made a mistake. You're part of a family now. and you have obligations.
NEELIX: But, I can't guide you. I can't advise you. I don't know what's coming.
JANEWAY: Well, that's not the point, is it? None of us knows what's coming. That's what Starfleet is all about. We are all in this together, Neelix, and we have to be able to count on each other no matter how hard it gets. Do you understand?
NEELIX: Yes. Yes, I do.
JANEWAY: Well, that's good. Report to deuterium maintenance at oh four hundred tomorrow morning. You're going to spend the next two weeks scrubbing the exhaust manifolds. That should give you time to think about what I've said. Dismissed.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50460.3. We've been investigating an inversion nebula for several days. This phenomenon has never been seen in the Alpha Quadrant, and is proving something of a mystery to us here.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: According to Federation astro-theorists, inversion nebulae are so unstable they're supposed to burn out within a few years, but this one appears to be centuries old.
PARIS: Maybe the theorists were wrong. After all, they never had a chance to look at the real thing.
CHAKOTAY: Not entirely wrong. These plasma strands we're approaching look ready to ignite.
JANEWAY: Tom, back us off two thousand kilometers. That'll give us a safety margin.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Harry, set the sensors for full spectrum scans, continuous sweep. If that nebula does flare up, I don't want to miss a beat. Mister Kim, I need your attention on the sensors.
KIM: Sorry, Captain. Full spectrum scans. I'm on it.
JANEWAY: Astro-theory never predicted this would be so lovely. Beauty and mystery, a tantalizing combination.
PARIS: No argument here. Right, Tuvok?
TUVOK: I am fully capable of appreciating this phenomenon without the extraneous sentimentality humans find so necessary.
CHAKOTAY: Being moved by an emotion isn't always extraneous. Sometimes it's the whole point.

[Tuvok's quarters]
TUVOK: Enter. Mister Kim. Can I help you?
KIM: Er. That's kal-toh, isn't it? Vulcan chess?
TUVOK: Kal-toh is to chess as chess is to tic-tac-toe.
KIM: I should have known.
TUVOK: What is on your mind, Ensign?
KIM: Tuvok, I need your help. I want to eliminate emotions, like Vulcans do.
TUVOK: Mister Kim, it is a lifelong process.
KIM: I realize that. And I also know that Vulcans use certain techniques.
TUVOK: The t'san s'at, the intellectual deconstruction of emotional patterns.
KIM: I'm willing to learn.
TUVOK: May I ask why?
KIM: I have feelings I don't want to have.
TUVOK: That would seem to be self-evident. And what is the nature of those feelings?
KIM: I'm in love, and I don't want to be.
TUVOK: I see. And who is the object of your affections?
KIM: Her name is Marayna.
TUVOK: I am not aware of anyone on the ship with that name.
KIM: She's not a member of the crew. She's a character on the holodeck.
TUVOK: You're in love with a computer subroutine?
KIM: That's the problem.
TUVOK: Interesting.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: To see through an emotional complex is to rob it of its power. The first step is to identify the complex in which you have been caught.
KIM: I told you. I'm in love.
TUVOK: There are many different kinds of love, Ensign. You must learn to differentiate. For example, you told me that you met this individual only days ago. Yet you feel overwhelmed.
KIM: I can't get her out of my mind. Not for a second.
TUVOK: Have you been able to sleep?
KIM: No.
TUVOK: Have you eaten?
KIM: No.
TUVOK: Does your daily routine seem somehow empty, perhaps even ludicrous?
KIM: Yes!
TUVOK: You are experiencing shon-ha'lock, the engulfment. It is the most intense and psychologically perilous form of eros. I believe humans call it love at first sight.
KIM: But we're talking about a holodeck character.
TUVOK: Irrelevant. The emotional complex in which you are trapped is the same and so is the cure. Logical deconstruction, followed by a regimen of meditative suppression. As I shall demonstrate.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]
NEELIX: Ah, a little further to the left. Mmm, no. That's too much.
KIM: Neelix. Have you seen Marayna?
NEELIX: Ah, perfect. Welcome, gentlemen. Just getting things ready for tonight's little get-together.
KIM: I completely forgot. The luau.
NEELIX: Polynesian style. I've done my research. Er, Lieutenant Tuvok, you neglected to RSVP.
TUVOK: That was not an oversight, I assure you.
KIM: Where's Marayna?
NEELIX: Who?
KIM: She's part of this program.
NEELIX: Doesn't ring a bell.
KIM: How could you miss her? She's tall, athletic, blonde.
NEELIX: Oh, one of the entertainment directors. I believe she's giving Kes a hydrosail lesson.
NEELIX: No, no, not there. There.
KES: Harry, Tuvok, the lake is perfect today.
MARAYNA: Hello, Harry.
KIM: Hi, Marayna.
KES: We were just talking about you.
KIM: You were?
KES: Marayna said what an excellent student you are.
KIM: She's a great instructor.
MARAYNA: Ready to get your ears wet?
TUVOK: Vulcans do not hydrosail.
MARAYNA: Oh, why not?
KES: Lieutenant Tuvok prefers the solitude of his own quarters and a game of kal-toh.
MARAYNA: I'm sure we can do better than that.
KES: I'm going back on duty. Thanks.
MARAYNA: You're welcome. There's a volleyball game starting down in the sand.
TUVOK: Mister Kim and I would prefer some conversation. Would you care to join us?
MARAYNA: All right. I tried a reverse curl this morning. I think I pulled a tendon. Feel that.
KIM: It's like a knot.
TUVOK: I'm sure it is.
MARAYNA: Are you two friends?
KIM: Yes.
TUVOK: No. We're colleagues. I respect Mister Kim for his intelligence and his integrity. And I assume he holds me in the same regard.
MARAYNA: So Vulcans don't hydrosail, and they don't have friends?
TUVOK: We have fellowships and associations, but without the emotional dimension humans experience.
MARAYNA: Hmm. You and I are friends, aren't we?
KIM: Er, yeah.
MARAYNA: Good.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Tuvok and Kim. Report to the bridge.
TUVOK: Acknowledged. We're on our way.
MARAYNA: There's a luau tonight. You're coming, aren't you? Both of you?
TUVOK: No.
KIM: Yes.
MARAYNA: You've got to stop doing that.
TUVOK: Ensign?

[Corridor]
TUVOK: As I predicted, your responses were as formulaic as a mathematical equation.
KIM: What do you mean?
TUVOK: Consider the expression on your face when Neelix did not recall Marayna. Annoyance.
KIM: That's not true.
TUVOK: It is quite true. At that moment, Neelix was functioning in Vulcan terms as the soo-lak, the third party who, by his very lack of interest, trivializes your own.
KIM: I guess it really did bother me.
TUVOK: And the arrival of Kes with Marayna then precipitated in you the k'oh-nar, the feeling of being completely exposed.
KIM: I was embarrassed, and I was sure Kes would take one look at my face and know exactly what I was feeling.
TUVOK: And when Marayna placed your hand on her stressed tendon.
KIM: Let's not even talk about that.

[Turbolift]
TUVOK: Bridge.
KIM: It's all so predictable.
TUVOK: That's just what I've been trying to get you to perceive. To the trained Vulcan intellect, intense romantic love is nothing more than a set of stereotypical behaviors. Not having our discipline, typically, humans are swept along by the process until it ends.
KIM: How does it end?
TUVOK: Either in conversion to a more balanced, stable relationship, or in tragic circumstances.
KIM: I can't have a balanced, stable relationship with a holodeck character. Marayna's a computer program. She could never feel for me what I feel for her.
TUVOK: Exactly. Logic dictates a single course of action. Retreat.
KIM: To tell you the truth, I don't even like hydrosailing.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: The temperature's five thousand degrees kelvin and rising.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: We've located a plasma strand that looks like it's seconds from igniting.
CHAKOTAY: There is some kind of unknown process that's been keeping this nebula from going up like a torch. We're going to see it in action.
TUVOK: And if there isn't?
PARIS: I've got my hand on the controls. We'll be out of here before it even touches our shields.
KIM: Captain, the temperature is nine thousand degrees kelvin. I'm picking up a subatomic cascade reaction.
PARIS: There she goes.
KIM: The plasma strand completely burned itself out.
CHAKOTAY: Without causing a chain reaction in the nebula.
JANEWAY: Harry, what put out the flames?
KIM: Sensors show some kind of dampening effect between the strands, but I can't isolate it.
JANEWAY: Like a firebreak in space.
CHAKOTAY: If we understood how this happened, we might be able to find a new way to contain a warp core breach.
JANEWAY: Or any plasma reaction. It's an investigation worth pursuing. Tom, it seems safe enough. Take us in for short range sensor scans. Let's find out all we can about this phenomenon.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'll see all of you at Mister Neelix's luau. I'm sure everyone will be attending.

[Corridor]
PARIS: Lieutenant, you look absolutely
TORRES: Tropical?
PARIS: More along the lines of smashing.
TORRES: Thanks.
PARIS: Of course, nothing can quite measure up with this shirt. This is an exact recreation of a 1962 Big Daddy-O Surf Special, an American classic.
TORRES: I'd say you put just a little bit too much thought into that.
PARIS: Now that's where you're wrong.
TORRES: Let's go. I told Vorik we'd pick him up at sixteen hundred hours, and you know how Vulcan he gets when anybody is late.
PARIS: Vorik? I thought we were meeting Harry.
TORRES: Oh, he's not coming.
PARIS: Why not?
TORRES: He said he was busy.
PARIS: With what?
TORRES: I don't know.
PARIS: Harry and I will meet you and Vorik at the luau.
TORRES: You're pretty confident about your powers of persuasion.
PARIS: Yes, I am.

[Kim's quarters]
KIM: Come in.
PARIS: Surf's up, Mister Kim.
KIM: Hi, Tom.
PARIS: Harry, this is a luau. You look like you're dressed for a funeral. What are you doing?
KIM: A Vulcan meditation.
PARIS: What for?
KIM: To suppress my emotions.
PARIS: Is something wrong?
KIM: Not really.
PARIS: The resort woman? What was her name?
KIM: Marayna. How did you know that?
PARIS: Well, for two days now, every time I look for you it's always, he's in Holodeck one. And since you don't like hydrosailing, I figured something was going on.
KIM: Am I that predictable? You sound like Tuvok.
PARIS: Tuvok? He told you to do all this?
KIM: Logically, the best course is retreat. Meditation helps.
PARIS: Retreat? A classic case of Vulcan denial, if you ask me. Come on, Harry. We have all fallen for a holodeck character. It happens. You deal with it by staying with your normal routine, not by hiding out in your quarters.
KIM: I'm not hiding out. I'm deconstructing the emotional complex.
PARIS: Okay. Have fun.
KIM: No, wait. Computer, standard illumination. I'm getting tired of this anyway.
PARIS: Computer, one Hawaiian shirt.
COMPUTER: Specify parameters.
PARIS: Pineapple motif.

[Holodeck - Luau]
NEELIX: Greetings, Mister Vulcan.
TUVOK: No, thank you.
NEELIX: I've done a great deal of ethnographic research on the Polynesian cultures on Earth. The flowered garland, or lei, is said to represent the flowering of love. It's a marvelous tradition, don't you think?
TUVOK: Marvelous.
NEELIX: Oh. Oh, my! Did I program a centerpiece that big? Computer, open parameter adjustment file.
EMH: The life of a recreational hologram - dining, dancing, non-restrictive clothing. I see the allure. Your turn.
JANEWAY: Oh, thank you. Tuvok, I'm glad to see you here.
TUVOK: I would never disobey an order, Captain, no matter how burdensome.
JANEWAY: There's a difference between an order and a suggestion.
CHAKOTAY: The evening's young, Lieutenant. Let's mingle.
TUVOK: Vulcans do not. Curious.
CHAKOTAY: What's that?
TUVOK: If you will excuse me.
TUVOK: A common error among novice players. By placing the t'an on opposite sides of the kal-toh, you are attempting to introduce a spatial balance, a strategy that will most certainly fail.
MARAYNA: Why?
TUVOK: Kal-toh is not about striving for balance. It is about finding the seeds of order, even in the midst of profound chaos. May I?
MARAYNA: Please.
MARAYNA: How beautiful.
TUVOK: Kal-toh is not about beauty.
MARAYNA: I understand, but it's still beautiful. Did you learn to play on Vulcan?
TUVOK: Yes. From the age of five, I took lessons from a master.
MARAYNA: I thought you might enjoy having an opponent. Playing alone must get a little predictable sometimes.
TUVOK: You are perceptive.
MARAYNA: Yes, I am. Extremely so.
GIRL: Aloha, miss.
GIRL: Sir?
TUVOK: No, thank you.
MARAYNA: You're the only one here not wearing a garland.
TUVOK: Given the decor, it seems somehow excessive.
MARAYNA: I don't believe you.
TUVOK: I beg your pardon.
MARAYNA: I think you're tying to isolate yourself and make a public protest at the same time.
TUVOK: Explain.
MARAYNA: You didn't want to be here in the first place. Being the only one without a lei sets you apart from the others, allowing you to symbolically maintain your solitude. And since everybody can see that you're the only one without a lei, you're letting them know that you'd rather be somewhere else.
TUVOK: Your logic is impeccable.
PARIS: Thanks.
TORRES: Thanks. I am starving.
PARIS: Oh, me too. Let's find us a spot. This place is filling up fast.
VORIK: I have already taken the liberty of reserving a table, Lieutenant, with a view of the lakeside. You did express a fondness for that particular vista.
TORRES: I did?
VORIK: Five days ago in a conversation we had in Engineering regarding holodeck programs.
TORRES: I guess maybe I did.
PARIS: Good memory.
VORIK: Of course.
TORRES: Well, then, Ensign, let's go.
PARIS: Harry?
KIM: What?
PARIS: Do you want to get something to eat or not?
KIM: I don't know. Maybe this isn't a good idea. Listen, I'm going back to my quarters.
PARIS: Harry.
KIM: Tom!
PARIS: Okay. Okay. I'll see you tomorrow.
MARAYNA: I like the excitement of the water, the danger of being tossed around by the wind and the waves. But at the same time, feeling like I'm in control.
TUVOK: The illusion of control.
MARAYNA: That's exactly right, because no one can control the wind and the waves. But for a few moments when you're on the water, and the ride is perfect, the feeling is that you can. You ever feel that?
TUVOK: No.
MARAYNA: Never? Don't you have an imagination?
TUVOK: If by imagination, you mean the ability to spontaneously generate images within my mind, then, yes, I have a highly developed imagination, as do all of my race.
MARAYNA: All right, imagine this, that you with your logic and your reason, are skimming atop endless waves of emotion. You believe you're in control, but you know that control is an illusion. You believe that you understand the depths beneath you, but that, too, is an illusion.
TUVOK: I can see why Ensign Kim finds you compelling.
MARAYNA: I can see why Harry admires and respects you, because it's obvious that he does. And so do I.
TUVOK: I must return to my quarters.
MARAYNA: Please stay. I've never met anyone like you.
TUVOK: I must admit, I share that conclusion. You are a unique individual.
MARAYNA: Then stay.
TUVOK: It is late. I must go.
MARAYNA: Then come back tomorrow. I'm sure the weather will hold.
TUVOK: No doubt.
MARAYNA: Please.
TUVOK: Perhaps.
MARAYNA: Good night, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Good night, Marayna.

[Outside the holodeck]
TUVOK: Computer, end resort program. Captain's log, supplemental. We've completed sensor scans and confirmed our discovery of an unusual dampening field responsible for keeping this unstable nebula from going up in flames. The field's origin is still a mystery.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: The dampening field only seems to appear when one of the plasma strands ignites, as if the fire itself initiates the field.
JANEWAY: Which puts out the fire. A feedback loop.
CHAKOTAY: One that's preserved this nebula for hundreds of years.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, do we have enough data on this dampening field to produce one artificially using the deflector dish? Harry, do we have the data?
KIM: Yes, Captain. But it'll take a while. We'll have to simulate the process on the computer, and then try to recreate it with the deflector dish. Probably a few weeks.
JANEWAY: The project is yours, Ensign. Tom, resume course for the Alpha Quadrant, warp six.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
PARIS: Captain, propulsion is not responding.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. B'Elanna, what's going on?
TORRES (voiceover): I'm not sure, Captain. We're trying to track the problem now.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Harry, give B'Elanna a hand.
CHAKOTAY: The nebula could be having an effect on the ship's systems.
JANEWAY: That's a possibility we can't discount.

[Engineering]
VORIK: The warp drive is functioning within established tolerance levels. Matter antimatter containment is at recommended field strength. The impulse engines are also
TORRES: Within tolerance.
VORIK: Yes.
TORRES: Most likely there's some kind of failure in the computer pathways. Nothing's wrong with propulsion, but the commands from the helm just aren't getting there.
KIM: The warp drive seems okay. Impulse too. I think the problem must be somewhere else. I think maybe the helm's being blocked.
TORRES: Like some kind of failure in the computer pathways?
KIM: Maybe.
TORRES: I just said all that. You're not listening, Harry.
VORIK: I'll return to my station, Lieutenant.
KIM: I'm sorry. I guess I've got a lot on my mind.
TORRES: Forget about her.
KIM: What did Tom say to you?
TORRES: Not a single word. I saw the way you were looking at Marayna yesterday.
KIM: Hi. My name's Harry read-me-like-a-book Kim.
TORRES: It's not that bad.
KIM: Apparently it is. I can't get her off my mind.
COMPUTER: Input algorithm not accepted.
TORRES: Why don't you take a break? I can handle it from here.
KIM: Thanks. I'll be in my quarters if you need me.

[Turbolift]
KIM: Deck three. Computer, belay that order. Holodeck one.

[Outside the holodeck]
KIM: Computer, activate Neelix resort program.
COMPUTER: That program is currently running.

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]
MARAYNA: Hello, Harry.
KIM: Enjoying yourselves? Now I know why you told me to keep off the holodeck.
TUVOK: Mister Kim, you are misconstruing the nature of this situation. Your jealousy is entirely insupportable.
KIM: Stop analyzing me! I respected you. I trusted you. And you did this right behind my back.
TUVOK: I have done nothing of the sort.
KIM: Then what do you call this?
TUVOK: A game of kal-toh which I am playing with a nonsentient computer subroutine.
MARAYNA: Harry, I didn't intend to harm you, and I didn't do anything wrong.
KIM: I'll accept that from her, Tuvok, but not from you. You said to stay away from her. You should have done the same.
TUVOK: You're implying a desire on my part that simply does not exist. Marayna is an intriguing interactive hologram, nothing more.
KIM: If you say so, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: Mister Kim, I value our working relationship. I would not allow a holodeck character to disrupt that.
KIM: I think it's a little late
MARAYNA: Tuvok! Harry! Please. Stop arguing.
TUVOK: Computer, delete the Marayna subroutine.
MARAYNA: Tuvok, what are you
KIM: That's not going to help. I never should have come to you in the first place. I should have worked it out myself.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Let's try it again, Mister Paris. Warp six.
PARIS: Course laid in.
JANEWAY: Engage. It would appear to me that we're not moving, Mister Paris.
PARIS: I don't understand it, Captain.
JANEWAY: Any ideas, B'Elanna?
TORRES: Warp drive is still on line, and helm control appears to be working, but the engines aren't responding. It's possible we've got a computer malfunction, but I can't seem to localize it.
JANEWAY: Let's run a level four computer diagnostic. All systems.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
TORRES: Captain, I just got aft thrusters to respond. It's not much.
JANEWAY: I'll take it, B'Elanna. Tom, let's go.
CHAKOTAY: At this speed, we'll be completely clear of the nebula by tomorrow.
JANEWAY: Good enough.

[Tuvok's quarters]
MARAYNA: Your move.
MARAYNA: I think you'll find my game has improved.
TUVOK: How did you get here?
MARAYNA: Simple. I transferred myself from the holodeck to the sickbay, then used your physician's mobile emitter.
TUVOK: I deleted you from the holodeck.
MARAYNA: But you only did that for Harry's benefit. I know you wanted to keep seeing me. I like Harry, but you're different. You're not like anyone else.
TUVOK: Why have you come here to my quarters?
MARAYNA: You're like a new world to me, Tuvok. I want to know everything about you. I didn't realize how lonely my existence was, and I can't go back to the way things were, not without you.
TUVOK: Tuvok to bridge. Intruder alert. Security team to my quarters.
MARAYNA: No! Why did you do that? Don't you want us to be together?
TUVOK: Given your actions, I have no choice but to consider you a potential threat to myself and to Voyager.
MARAYNA: But you're wrong. I would never do anything to harm you. Make it stop!
TUVOK: You have access to the ship's control systems?
MARAYNA: And I'll use them all if I have to. You can't just delete me!

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Where is this individual now?
TORRES: When security got to Tuvok's quarters, she downloaded herself back into the computer and onto the holodeck.
PARIS: More to the point, what is she?
CHAKOTAY: Most likely a sentient computer program. I checked the Starfleet database. This kind of thing has happened before. The Enterprise-D under Picard was once taken over by a holocharacter.
KIM: We studied that case at the Academy. It gained control of the ship from inside the holodeck.
TUVOK: Marayna may well have done the same. She was able to silence the intruder alert by an apparent act of will.
JANEWAY: Does that mean she has the run of our entire computer system?
TUVOK: She may.
JANEWAY: Is it possible that she's the source of our mysterious malfunctions?
TORRES: It's certainly possible. If Marayna's able to manipulate the ship's computer pathways, she could have disrupted propulsion and then covered her tracks so we couldn't trace the cause.
JANEWAY: But why? What's her motivation?
TUVOK: I believe it has something to do with her feelings toward me. In my quarters, she made reference to her loneliness and expressed her desire to continue our relationship.
PARIS: But what does that have to do with knocking propulsion offline?
CHAKOTAY: Could she be trying to keep us near the nebula?
KIM: This all started the day we got here. That's when I first met her. Maybe the nebula is somehow affecting the holodeck.
JANEWAY: Giving rise to an intelligence that doesn't belong there.
TORRES: It's possible.
JANEWAY: In any case, I can't allow her to gain any further control over my ship. Tuvok, Paris, Torres, get down to holodeck one. I want this situation resolved one way or another.

[Outside the holodeck]
TORRES: She's locked us out of the program. We'll be lucky if we can open the doors.
PARIS: We're lucky.
TUVOK: Marayna may have opened the doors. Caution is advised.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]
TORRES: I'll try to access the inside control panel.
PARIS: It's kind of creepy.
TUVOK: Marayna's attempting to recreate the setting of my previous encounter with her.
PARIS: Ah. You really know how to pick 'em, Tuvok.
TORRES: I got access to the holodeck computer.
PARIS: I'm not reading anything unusual on the holodeck. It seems to be working perfectly.
TORRES: There's a subspace signal coming from outside of Voyager. It's some kind of an uplink. There's somebody on a ship out there, tapping into the
PARIS: B'Elanna!
TUVOK: Shoot the control panel.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Shield status.
KIM: Still holding, Captain, but the inertial dampeners are offline.
CHAKOTAY: Starboard shields are down to eighty percent.
JANEWAY: What happened down there?
TUVOK: Marayna attacked us and attempted to restrain me. She has control over the holodeck characters.
JANEWAY: But she's not actually on the holodeck. I found an uplink and tracked it to the nebula. She's on a hidden ship or a space station. She's manipulating the holodeck from there.
CHAKOTAY: She's been using the Marayna character like a puppet.
JANEWAY: As an interface, a way to move around Voyager to interact with us.
MARAYNA (voiceover): Tuvok, come back to me. I'm waiting for you.
JANEWAY: Harry, try to trace the uplink. Find her.
MARAYNA (voiceover): Don't make this more difficult than it already is, Captain.
JANEWAY: Are you responsible for the plasma fires?
MARAYNA (voiceover): You're giving me no other choice but to force the issue.
JANEWAY: What do you want?
MARAYNA (voiceover): Tuvok. I want Tuvok. Let him come to the holodeck alone, or I'll destroy your ship.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]
MARAYNA: Tuvok, you're back.
TUVOK: I had little choice.
MARAYNA: We're alone now. No one can see us or hear us. We can do whatever we want. You don't have to pretend anymore. This is our world.
TUVOK: You successfully lured me here by threatening the ship, but any attempt to generate intimacy between us will not be successful.

[Bridge]
TORRES: I've isolated the source of the uplink signal.
JANEWAY: Stand by to transport.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]
MARAYNA: I understand your sense of duty, of loyalty to your captain, but we have something stronger, a connection that goes beyond duty and loyalty. I know you want to be with me, Tuvok.
TUVOK: You must leave Voyager now and allow us to continue on our course.
MARAYNA: I won't.
TUVOK: I suggest you reconsider, or Captain Janeway will be forced to take action.
MARAYNA: There's nothing she can do. You're staying here with me. She'll just have to accept that.
TUVOK: Energize.

[Bridge]
KIM: Transporting to the source of the uplink.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]
MARAYNA: Stop!

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Shields are down to forty seven percent.
CHAKOTAY: Shields are gone.
JANEWAY: Try to hail Tuvok.
KIM: I can't Captain. Something's blocking the signal.

[Space station]
TUVOK: Marayna.
MARAYNA: Your ship is helpless. If I ignite one more strand, the hull will fail.
TUVOK: You are using the nebula as a weapon.
MARAYNA: My nebula.
TUVOK: I will fire if necessary.
MARAYNA: You're too late. I've already set the ignition sequence. Only I can stop it.
TUVOK: Are you alone here, on this station in this nebula?
MARAYNA: Yes. It's my work.
TUVOK: I don't understand.
MARAYNA: I keep the plasma fires from chain-reacting.
TUVOK: You are responsible for the dampening field we've been investigating.
MARAYNA: That's correct. I generate it from here to preserve the nebula so that others from my home planet may enjoy its beauty. I watch the ships when they pass by. They don't even know I'm here.
TUVOK: You are lonely.
MARAYNA: By choice. I prefer to be here, alone.
TUVOK: But you uplinked with our holodeck and created a character in order to interact with us.
MARAYNA: To amuse myself. I have done it before. Tapped into the computer of a passing alien vessel, examined all the little details of their lives. But I never expected to find something as diverting as your holodeck. I never expected to find you. You are like nothing else I've ever encountered. And I can't be without you. Stay here with me, and I will let your ship resume course.
TUVOK: If it is the only option, I would willingly sacrifice myself to save my crewmates.
MARAYNA: No! That's not enough. You have to want to be with me.
TUVOK: If you truly understood who and what I am, you would know that I could never return your affections.
MARAYNA: But you are more like me than you are like them. I've seen the way you isolate yourself. Even in a crowd of people, you're alone. We should be together.
TUVOK: I must admit, I have found our conversations stimulating. Your insight and intelligence, fresh and unexpected. In other circumstances, I would be willing to spend time in your company, to continue to share knowledge and ideas. But I have a home and a spouse on Vulcan. I have a mission, and colleagues who depend on me. I do not have a complete understanding of emotions, but I believe that if you truly care for me, you will not pursue this course of action.
MARAYNA: You may go. Your communicator will function now.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Tuvok.
TUVOK (voiceover): I am ready to return. Stand by to beam me aboard.
KIM: Captain, ship's systems are coming back online.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged, Tuvok.

[Space station]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Standing by.
TUVOK: Consider this. Your feelings toward me may be evidence of a deeper need. A more profound loneliness than you are willing to admit. Why don't you call for a replacement? Let another occupy this task. Attempt for a time to live among your own kind.
MARAYNA: Logically, that would be the best thing to do.
TUVOK: Yes.
MARAYNA: Perhaps I will.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager. Ready for transport.
MARAYNA: But what about you, Tuvok? Will you always be alone? Security chief's log, stardate 50471.3. The remaining damage to the ship was easily repaired, and we soon left Marayna's nebula behind. Voyager is back on course, and I have resumed my normal routine.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]
TUVOK: Mister Kim, would you be interested in learning to play kal-toh?
KIM: I thought kal-toh was beyond human understanding.
TUVOK: Not entirely. Ensign, I failed to respect the complexity of your emotions. I apologize for my lack of consideration.
KIM: Don't worry about it, Tuvok. Apology accepted.
KIM: Won't this take years to learn?
TUVOK: It will indeed.
GIRL: May I join you?
KIM: No.
TUVOK: But thank you.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Oh Captain, do you have a minute?
JANEWAY: Just about a minute. I'm on my way to the shuttlebay.
NEELIX: I thought last night went well, didn't you?
JANEWAY: Extremely well. Everyone had a lot of fun.
NEELIX: I was thinking of making it a regular feature, say once a month?
JANEWAY: It's certainly worth a try.
NEELIX: And Captain, you were especially good last night.
JANEWAY: Thanks, Neelix. It's been a while.
NEELIX: You'd never know. Now, Captain, I, do you think, I mean, I, I, I was wondering if
JANEWAY: What is it, Neelix?
NEELIX: Could you possibly keep Mister Tuvok busy on the bridge that evening?
JANEWAY: I'm sure something could be arranged. Our secret, Neelix.
NEELIX: We never had this discussion.

[Shuttlecraft Sacajawea]
CHAKOTAY: Harry's clarinet solo was okay. I could have done without Tuvok's reading of Vulcan poetry. But the highlight of the evening was definitely Kathryn Janeway portraying the Dying Swan.
JANEWAY: I learned that dance when I was six years old. I assure you, it was the hit of the Beginning Ballet class.
CHAKOTAY: I don't doubt it. If Neelix has another talent night I hope you reprise it.
JANEWAY: Oh, no. Not until certain other people take their turn. The ship's First Officer for instance.
CHAKOTAY: Me? Get up in front of people and perform? I don't think so.
JANEWAY: Come on, Chakotay, there must be some talent you have that people would enjoy. Maybe I could stand with an apple on my head and you could phaser it off.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds great. If I miss I get to be Captain. Atmospheric turbulence. We might be in for a rough landing.
JANEWAY: Funny, a minute ago there wasn't any indication of rough weather.
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading even more severe storms near the surface.
JANEWAY: Ion lightning. Maybe we'd better try the fifth planet instead and come back here when things have cleared up.
CHAKOTAY: I think we took a lightning hit. Attitude control is out.
JANEWAY: I'm switching to manual.
CHAKOTAY: The navigational system's out.
JANEWAY: Reverse engines. Full thrusters.
COMPUTER: Warning. Hydrazene gas leak.
JANEWAY: Altitude twelve kilometers. Hull temperature four thousand degrees. We have to reduce speed.
CHAKOTAY: I'll try the emergency anti-grav thrusters.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn. Kathryn!
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn! Kathryn!
CHAKOTAY: No!
COMPUTER: Warning. Hydrazene gas levels at one hundred twelve parts per million. Begin evacuation procedures.

[Planet surface]
CHAKOTAY: Hang on, Kathryn.
CHAKOTAY: Breathe, damn it. Breathe! Don't you die on me now. Come on, Kathryn. Breathe! Listen to me, Kathryn. You've got to breathe. Breathe! Breathe! Come on. Come on!
CHAKOTAY: Yes.
JANEWAY: Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Don't ever do that to me again.
JANEWAY: Thanks.
CHAKOTAY: You went into shock. You gave me quite a scare there for a minute. This should help reduce your cranial swelling. Should have a headache for a while.
JANEWAY: I'll live with it.
CHAKOTAY: We need to set up a homing signal. Hey, take it easy.
JANEWAY: I'm all right. Chakotay, we're going to need the blankets and the rations.
CHAKOTAY: I can get them. You set up the homing signal. Here. At least the storm seems to be dying.
JANEWAY: What were you looking at?
CHAKOTAY: There are phaser burns on the hull. I don't think it was lightning strikes that hit us. I think we were shot down.
JANEWAY: By whom?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know. I'm going back to see if I can get an energy signature from the burns.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, the homing signal. We might be telling someone just where to find us.
CHAKOTAY: Disconnect it while I scan the shuttle.
JANEWAY: Can you tell anything?
CHAKOTAY: The signatures are Vidiian.
JANEWAY: Vidiian? I thought we'd moved beyond their space.
CHAKOTAY: If they shot us down you can be sure they'll be coming for us. We need to find a hiding place.
JANEWAY: What is it?
CHAKOTAY: Life forms, fifty meters from here. They're coming this way.
JANEWAY: Let's go.
CHAKOTAY: There's another group in this direction. We're surrounded.
JANEWAY: Let's take cover. We'll have to fight.

[Cave]
JANEWAY: Back off now. We'll fire if we have to. Back off!
JANEWAY: Chakotay!

[Shuttlecraft Sacajawea]
CHAKOTAY: Harry's clarinet solo was okay. I could have done without Tuvok's reading of Vulcan poetry. But the highlight of the evening was definitely Kathryn Janeway portraying the Dying Swan.
JANEWAY: I learned that dance when I was six years old. I assure you. Wait a minute, what's happening here?
CHAKOTAY: You're right. We have been here before.
JANEWAY: Do you remember Vidiians?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. They shot us down and attacked us.
JANEWAY: We may have wandered into some kind of repeating time loop. I'm going to scan for temporal anomalies.
CHAKOTAY: Whatever's going on, let's change tactics this time. Let's not try to land on that planet.
JANEWAY: Agreed. I don't see any evidence of temporal flux, or any kind on anomaly for that matter.
CHAKOTAY: Or of Vidiian ships.
JANEWAY: So far, so good.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. Chakotay to Voyager, do you read us?
JANEWAY: We're out of range. I'd still like to figure out what happened to us. Send a subspace message that we won't be landing on the planet. Tell them that we'll be looking for evidence of temporal anomalies. I see a ship approaching at high impulse. It's on an intercept course.
CHAKOTAY: Is it Vidiian?
JANEWAY: Yes.
CHAKOTAY: I've got it. It's a warship, loaded with weaponry. It's closing fast.
JANEWAY: Can we outrun it?
CHAKOTAY: We can try.
JANEWAY: They're two hundred thousand kilometers away and gaining.
CHAKOTAY: Setting evasive pattern Delta four.
JANEWAY: They're powering weapons. Shields up! Stand by all phaser arrays.
CHAKOTAY: Shields down to eighty four percent.
JANEWAY: Returning fire.
CHAKOTAY: Nice aim.
JANEWAY: It didn't stop them.
CHAKOTAY: We've lost shields!
JANEWAY: Firing starboard array!
CHAKOTAY: That one hit the reactant injectors.
JANEWAY: Shut them down, they'll leak antimatter.
CHAKOTAY: The magnetic fields are failing. The gas flow separators are down.
JANEWAY: Dump the core!
JANEWAY: It's looking more and more like we're in a time loop. The question is, how do we break it?
CHAKOTAY: Let's retrace our steps. Get back to the part of space we were in before all this started happening.
JANEWAY: Agreed. If we're experiencing a temporal field, a tachyon burst might disperse it. Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Let me guess. It's a Vidiian ship.
JANEWAY: Two Vidiian ships, still twenty million kilometers away but headed right for us.
CHAKOTAY: Sacajawea to Voyager. Do you read us?
TUVOK (voiceover): You have just come into comm. range, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: We're being pursued by two Vidiian ships. Set a course for our shuttle and have weapons powered.
JANEWAY: We also believe we're experiencing some kind of temporal phenomenon, a time loop. Make certain you scan for anomalies.
TUVOK (voiceover): Aye Captain. We're on our way.
CHAKOTAY: If you're going to emit that tachyon burst, you'd better do it now. In a couple of minutes those ships'll be right on top of us.
JANEWAY: Here goes.
JANEWAY: I can't tell if it's affecting anything.
CHAKOTAY: The Vidiians are almost within range. Ready weapons. What happened?
JANEWAY: They just vanished! But I'm picking up a residual temporal signature.
CHAKOTAY: Then those ships must have been part of the time loop.
JANEWAY: And the tachyon burst disrupted it.
CHAKOTAY: Not a minute too soon. I was getting awfully tired of talking about Talent Night.
TUVOK (voiceover): Voyager to Sacajawea. We will rendezvous with you in approximately four minutes.
JANEWAY: Believe me, Tuvok, we're looking forward to it.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Good to have you back, Captain.
JANEWAY: Good to be here. I'd still like to get to the bottom of whatever was happening to us in that shuttle. Did Voyager detect any evidence of a temporal field?
TUVOK: To my knowledge, we did not.
JANEWAY: Let's run a second level temporal scan. I'd feel better entering this part of space if I knew what caused the phenomenon.
TORRES: Phenomenon? I'm not sure what you mean, Captain.
JANEWAY: The time loop, or whatever it was we ran into out there.
PARIS: Time loop?
JANEWAY: We told you, Chakotay and I experienced some kind of temporal loop. It involved the Vidiians. They'd attack and kill us and then we'd be sitting in the shuttle again. Tell them.
CHAKOTAY: We were on our way to the second planet of a binary system.
JANEWAY: To collect some nitrogenase compound. But we encountered a storm and we crashed.
CHAKOTAY: And then we were attacked by the Vidiians, but we managed to escape and get back here.
TUVOK: You and the Commander were checked by the Doctor, who treated your injuries, and you proceeded here to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: But I don't remember anything about a repeating time loop.
JANEWAY: You don't remember how we kept ending up in the shuttle talking about Talent Night? Then I'm the only one who recalls things differently. Something strange is going on here. I'll have the Doctor examine me. In the meantime, I still want those temporal scans.
CHAKOTAY: You heard the Captain. Let's get moving.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I ran a microcellular scan after you returned to the ship. I have just analyzed the results.
JANEWAY: What did you find?
EMH: You have contracted a disease. The Vidiian Phage.
JANEWAY: The Phage? What about Chakotay? Is he infected too?
EMH: No, Commander Chakotay shows no signs of the disease.
JANEWAY: How did I get it?
EMH: You said one of the Vidiians grabbed you. It may be that the virus was transferred in that way.
JANEWAY: But we've encountered Vidiians like that before and had physical contact with them. No one's ever gotten sick that way.
EMH: I can't offer an explanation at this point. It may be that the Phage virus has mutated to become more infectious. I believe however this explains the hallucinations you described. There is often concomitant stress to the thalamus in the early stages of the disease. It is known to cause a kind of dementia that produces hallucinations.
JANEWAY: What's the prognosis?
EMH: I wish I could tell you, Captain. For the moment it would be best if you remained in sickbay, under quarantine.
JANEWAY: Of course.
EMH: The fact that the virus has acted so quickly raises the possibility that others on the crew may be infected.
JANEWAY: But you've studied the Phage in great detail. Have you made any progress in finding a cure?
EMH: I hadn't pursued the matter since we seemed to have moved beyond Vidiian space. But I'll now redouble my efforts. In the meantime I'd like to give you a sedative. Captain? I'll be running a series of deep level tissue scans.
JANEWAY: I understand.
EMH: There. That should give you a good night's sleep. I'll erect a bioforcefield, and I promise you, Captain, I won't deactivate myself until I have some answers for you.
JANEWAY: Doctor. I know I'm in good hands.
JANEWAY: Doctor?
EMH: Ah, you're awake.
JANEWAY: How long have I been asleep?
EMH: Almost forty hours.
JANEWAY: Forty.
EMH: I'm afraid this strain of the Phage is particularly virulent. It's spreading rapidly.
JANEWAY: Have you? Is there any hope of a cure?
EMH: I regret to inform you that I have been unsuccessful.
JANEWAY: Then what's the next step?
EMH: I've given that a great deal of thought. The prospects are unpleasant, Captain. You face a lingering, painful death marked by increasing periods of dementia and eventual insanity.
JANEWAY: I see.
EMH: I've come to the conclusion that there's only one humane course of action.
JANEWAY: What's that?
EMH: Euthanasia.
JANEWAY: What?
EMH: It would be wrong to subject you to such a prolonged and painful death. The crew would also be adversely affected if that were to happen.
JANEWAY: Surely there are other options to explore, Doctor. B'Elanna's DNA for instance. It's coded to produce antibodies against the Phage.
EMH: Klingon DNA might provide a vaccine for the disease, but not a cure. I'm sorry, Captain. The space within the forcefield is filling with a neural toxin. It is fast acting and merciful.
JANEWAY: Turn it off. That's an order, Doctor!
EMH: Please relax and take deep breaths. It will be over more quickly that way.
JANEWAY: Computer, delete Emergency Medical Hologram.
COMPUTER: A security code is required for that command.
JANEWAY: Security code Janeway Lambda Three.
COMPUTER: That code is not recognized.
JANEWAY: I'm the Captain! Delete the EMH!
COMPUTER: A security code is required for that command.
JANEWAY: Don't do this. It isn't right.

[Shuttlecraft Sacajawea]
JANEWAY: Chakotay!
CHAKOTAY: I know. We're back.
JANEWAY: That's it. That must be the anomaly. That's what's behind all this.
CHAKOTAY: It's exerting a gravito-magnetic force.
JANEWAY: We've got to get away from it. Divert all power to the engines.
CHAKOTAY: Changing course. We're still being drawn toward it.
JANEWAY: Reverse engines, full power.
CHAKOTAY: Structural integrity is weakening.
JANEWAY: Reinforce the hull.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, maybe we should go in.
JANEWAY: No!
CHAKOTAY: Listen to me. Maybe we're doing this all wrong. Maybe the thing to do is fly into it.
JANEWAY: No, I don't believe that. We've got to get away.
CHAKOTAY: It's going to tear the shuttle apart. The hull is breaching!

[Planet surface]
CHAKOTAY: Don't you die on me, Kathryn.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, what's happening?
CHAKOTAY: Start breathing! Breathe, dammit. Breathe! Don't do this to me, Kathryn. Come on, Kathryn, breathe.
JANEWAY: Can't you hear me?
CHAKOTAY: Don't you die on me. Come on, breathe. Kathryn, listen to me, you have to breathe. Start breathing! Come on! Come on!
CHAKOTAY: No, Kathryn! You can't die.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, I'm here.
TUVOK (voiceover): Voyager to Sacajawea, do you read us?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, Voyager. How far are you? I have an emergency here.
TUVOK (voiceover): We're in orbit, Commander. We've located you but transporters won't function in the storm. A shuttle is on its way to the surface now.
CHAKOTAY: The Captain's dead. We have to get her back to sickbay. The Doctor may still be able to revive her.
TUVOK (voiceover): The away team should be with you in minutes.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: I know you can't see me or hear me. I don't know what's going on. But I am here, Chakotay. I am not dead.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, we're going to get you back.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Ten milligrams cordrazine. We'll use it in conjunction with the cortical stimulator. Now!
KES: No pulse, no blood pressure. Minimum electrical activity in the midbrain. No measurable response in the cerebral cortex.
EMH: Again.
KES: Doctor, we're getting a thready pulse.
EMH: Quickly. Seventy five milligrams inaprovaline. I'll begin direct synaptic stimulation.
KES: Pulse is weakening. We're losing her again.
EMH: Cortical stimulator. Now!
KES: No vital signs. No brain activity.
EMH: Again!
KES: No change.
EMH: Again!
KES: Doctor
EMH: Don't question me. Again! Make a note in the log. Death occurred at oh three twenty hours. Cause, massive cerebro-vascular collapse.
JANEWAY: Computer, confirm Janeway voice pattern. Kes, you're a telepath. You've been able to sense things others can't. Kes, can you sense me?
EMH: Kes, please go to the science lab and prepare the autopsy protocols.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: I'm here, Kes. I'm staying with you until you realize it.
KES: Captain?
JANEWAY: Did you feel that, Kes? It was me.
KES: Kes to Commander Chakotay. I need to talk to you right away.

[Briefing room]
KES: Maybe it was nothing, but I have the strongest feeling that the Captain was there in the corridor with me.
TUVOK: It is possible that in your distress over the Captain's death you imagined that you were aware of her.
KES: It was more than that, I'm sure of it.
CHAKOTAY: In the past Kes has shown an ability an unseen presence. I think we have to take her seriously.
TORRES: The Captain's consciousness might have phase-shifted out of our reality.
PARIS: She could be in some kind of alternate dimension in subspace.
NEELIX: We have to find her somehow.
TORRES: Harry and I can run a full subspace sweep, see if we can come up with anything.
CHAKOTAY: Get on it. It's your top priority. Neelix, help the crew with this. Keep their morale up until we can get some answers.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, sir. Right away.
TUVOK: Commander, I suggest I work with Kes. I may be able to help her increase the range of her perceptions.
CHAKOTAY: Good idea. Tom, we'll take duty stations.
JANEWAY: That's more like it.

[Engineering]
TORRES: I've reconfigured the lateral sensor array to scan subspace.
JANEWAY: Don't forget to run a magneton sweep.
KIM: The forward array is ready to scan for temporal phase-shifting, chronoton particles or field flux.
TORRES: I'm going to activate the magneton scanner. It might pick up an anomalous presence.
JANEWAY: Now what?
JANEWAY: Daddy! Who are you? Are you responsible for what's going on here?
ADMIRAL: You know who I am, Kathryn.
JANEWAY: My father died over fifteen years ago.
ADMIRAL: Yes. Drowned under the polar icecap on Tau Ceti Prime. It was devastating to you.
JANEWAY: You may be an hallucination, or some kind of projection of my own imagination, but you are not my father.
ADMIRAL: Kathryn, Kathryn. I raised you to be a doubter and a skeptic, to look at the world with a scientist's eye, but in this instance that won't work.
JANEWAY: Why not? If you know what's going on here, tell me.
ADMIRAL: Isn't it clear? You're dead. You died in that shuttle crash.
JANEWAY: No, no, no, that's not possible.
ADMIRAL: I understand your confusion, your refusal to accept what's happened. I went through the same thing after my accident.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
ADMIRAL: I went back to you, and your mother, and your sister after I died for a long time, until I realized it was futile. That's what happens when dead is unexpected. One's consciousness isn't prepared to let go.
JANEWAY: Consciousness. Is that what you're calling me? Kathryn's consciousness.
ADMIRAL: For the want of a better word. Some say ghost or spirit. We all heard the stories and thought they were the product of vivid imaginations or self-induced hysteria. I'll admit I was surprised when I found they were true.
JANEWAY: If you stayed with me after you died, you should be able to tell me what happened then.
ADMIRAL: You were so grief-stricken you fell into a terrible depression. You spent months in bed, sleeping away your days rather than confronting your feelings. I'm not sure what would have happened if your sister hadn't forced you into the real world again.
JANEWAY: If you're an hallucination, a part of me, you'd know those things.
ADMIRAL: Kathryn, remember, several times after I died you woke up thinking I was in the room with you? You told your sister it felt absolutely real. That's because it was real. I was there trying to convince you to get on with your life.
JANEWAY: Just for the sake of argument, let's say you're right. What's next?
ADMIRAL: That's up to you. Eventually you will cross over. The only question is how long it will take you to give up this world.
JANEWAY: Cross over to where?
ADMIRAL: I don't know what to call it. Another state of consciousness, unlike anything we could have imagined in life. It's not a frightening place, Kathryn. It's full of joy and indescribable wonder.
JANEWAY: Kes sensed I was here. They're looking for me.
ADMIRAL: People have felt the presence of ghosts throughout the ages, but the technology to find them still hasn't been invented.
JANEWAY: They won't give up easily.
ADMIRAL: But they will give up eventually. They'll accept what's happened, and that's what you have to do.
JANEWAY: Kes did it once, she can do it again. I'm going to help her.
ADMIRAL: If that's what you feel you need to do, I understand.

[Tuvok's quarters]
TUVOK: Let us try one more time. Open yourself to the impressions around you, The thoughts, the minds that are on this ship. All the minds that are on this ship.
KES: I hear them. So many voices.
TUVOK: They are a turbulent storm, and you are the one who must rise above the tempest, to a place that is quiet.
KES: It's difficult.
TUVOK: You must lift yourself from the confusion of the storm. soar into the quiet space among the stars where everything is still.
KES: Yes, I'm in that place now.
TUVOK: Is there a voice that you can hear? A single voice isolated in the stillness?
JANEWAY: Kes, I'm here. Focus on me, on my voice.
TUVOK: There are only two beings in the void. you and Captain Janeway. Nothing else exists that can interfere. Can you hear her voice, however faintly?
KES: I'm trying.
TUVOK: Is there anything? Any presence in the void with you?
KES: I don't think so. I can't hear anything.
JANEWAY: Kes, keep trying. You have to find me.
TUVOK: Now I am with you, moving through the quiet space. My thoughts join with yours, extending the range of the search.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, surely you must know I'm here? We've shared so much.
KES: I'm just not getting anything.
TUVOK: Nor am I.
KES: I felt empty. alone. Maybe you're right. What I sensed wasn't the Captain. it was me wanting to believe she wasn't dead.
TUVOK: We've been trying for three days without success. Nor have Lieutenant Torres and Ensign Kim found any indication that the Captain is alive. There is a point at which we must accept the inevitability of her death.
KES: Thank you for helping. I don't think I would have accepted it if you hadn't at least tried. Goodnight.
TUVOK: Tactical officer's log, supplemental. My attempt to help Kes detect the Captain's presence has ended in failure. I am forced to conclude that we have, in fact, lost Kathryn Janeway. I would like the record to show that I have lost a good friend as well as one whom I can never replace.
JANEWAY: Oh, Tuvok.
ADMIRAL: They all love you, Kathryn. It's going to be hard for them.
JANEWAY: This can't be happening. I don't believe it.
ADMIRAL: Because you don't want to. Tomorrow, it will become easier.
JANEWAY: My memorial service.

[Mess hall]
TORRES: When I came to this ship I resented the fact that Captain Janeway was responsible for our being stranded here in the Delta Quadrant. I didn't think that she made the right decision, and I certainly didn't want to serve under her command. In the beginning, I fought her. Even when she made me Chief Engineer, I didn't trust her reasons. I kept looking for a hidden agenda. I actually believed that she'd set me up to fail. Well, I couldn't have been more wrong. She saw, she saw something in me that I didn't see. She saw a worthwhile person, where I saw a lost and hostile misfit. And because she had faith in me I began to have faith in myself. And when she died, the first thing I thought was that I couldn't do this without her. That I needed her too badly. Her strength and her compassion. But then I realized that the gift that she gave me, and gave a lot of us here, was the knowledge that we are better and stronger than we think. I wish I had said these things to her. I wish I'd taken the time.
CHAKOTAY: Would anyone else like to say something?
KIM: I would, sir. I know Captain Janeway wouldn't want us to be sitting around moping. She'd want us to be cheering each other up, remembering the good times. Like the away mission when we found all those bushes of over-ripe fruit. I must have eaten half a kilo. My hands and mouth were all purple, and the Captain. The Captain came and sat down next to me, and her mouth was all stained too. She put her arm around my shoulder and she said. She said, Ensign, these are the times we have to remember. It. It's. Sorry.
CHAKOTAY: I know this hasn't been easy, but I think we'll all be better for it. We will honor the Captain one last time. Release the pod.
CHAKOTAY: Ensign Kim was right when he said the Captain wouldn't want us to be sad. Neelix has prepared some food, and it would be nice if we could all get together and share the good times we had with Captain Janeway.
ADMIRAL: It's over, Kathryn. There's nothing left for you here. Come with me.
JANEWAY: What do I do to leave here?
ADMIRAL: Just decide. The only thing that keeps you is your refusal to leave.
JANEWAY: You may be right in everything you've said to me, but I'm not ready to accept it. I'm not ready to go.
ADMIRAL: My poor little bird. You always made it hard for yourself. If there was a rocky path and a smooth one, you chose the rocky one every time.
JANEWAY: If I stay, maybe it'll be easier for them. Maybe I could be comforting somehow.
ADMIRAL: You're saying all the things I told myself when I refused to leave you. I was hoping you wouldn't have to go through that. It's a horrible existence, Kathryn. As time wears on you begin to see how potent, how destructive, loneliness is. You'll see the people you love going on with their lives, doing all the things you used to share with them, but you won't be a part of it any more. You'll be forever shut out of their existence. It becomes agonizing. I don't want that to happen to you.
JANEWAY: Maybe that's what it will take for me to make that decision. I just know that now I'm not ready.
ADMIRAL: What can I do to convince you?
JANEWAY: Nothing. I can't, I won't abandon them. We're too much a part of each other, can't you see it? We've been through so much together. I have to know what's going to happen to them. To see Kes continue to grow and learn. To know if Tom and B'Elanna will ever stop sparring with each other and develop a real friendship.
ADMIRAL: You can only be an observer of their lives, never a participant.
JANEWAY: I don't care. I'd rather be here in spirit than not at all. A Captain doesn't abandon ship.
ADMIRAL: Every hour you stay here makes it that much more difficult to leave.
JANEWAY: Why are you pushing me? I've made up my mind. I'm staying here.

[Planet surface]
EMH: The cortical stimulator is working. I'm getting a weak pulse.
CHAKOTAY: She's coming back.
EMH: I'll use cordrazine along with the stimulator.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: What was that? What happened?
ADMIRAL: What do you mean?
JANEWAY: I saw Tuvok and Chakotay and the Doctor.
ADMIRAL: Here?
JANEWAY: No. It was different, as though, as though I were looking up at them.
ADMIRAL: An hallucination like the others.
JANEWAY: It didn't feel like the others. I didn't see myself. I was looking up at them. That's the real me, isn't it, lying on the ground on that planet, dying, and this is the hallucination. This isn't real.
ADMIRAL: More denial. You're only making it harder on yourself.
JANEWAY: You're trying very hard to convince me to come with you. Why is that? If what you're saying is true, why not let me come to the decision on my own?
ADMIRAL: I'm trying to spare you unnecessary pain.
JANEWAY: My father would never act like this. He always believed I had to learn my own lessons, make my own mistakes. He never tried to shield me from life. Why would he try to shield me from death? You're not my father. I could be imagining you, but I don't think so. You have such a specific agenda. You're determined that I go with you somewhere. Who are you?
ADMIRAL: I'm trying to help you. Stop fighting me.
JANEWAY: Are you an alien being of some kind? Is that it?

[Planet surface]
CHAKOTAY: Her eyes are open.
EMH: Vital signs are responding. Blood pressure is sixty over thirty.
TUVOK: But the entity is still inhabiting her cerebral cortex, impeding your treatment.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, hang on. We're bringing you back. Just fight a little longer.
EMH: Direct synaptic stimulation might drive out the alien presence.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: I was right. I heard Tuvok and Chakotay and the Doctor. You're an alien. You've created all these hallucinations, haven't you?
ADMIRAL: This is what my species does. At the moment just before death one of us comes to help you understand what's happening, to make the crossing over an occasion of joy.
JANEWAY: And what is that?
ADMIRAL: Our Matrix, where your consciousness will live. I was being truthful when I said it was a place of wonder. It can be whatever you want it to be.
JANEWAY: Then why didn't you tell me this from the beginning? Why pretend to be my father.
ADMIRAL: Usually people are comforted to see their loved ones. It makes the crossing over a much less fearful occasion. I've done this many times, but I've never encountered someone so resistant.

[Planet surface]
EMH: Something's happened. The alien presence is getting stronger again.
CHAKOTAY: Fight it, Kathryn, just a little longer.
EMH: I'll have to try a thoron pulse.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: My people are telling me to fight. They're trying to save me.
ADMIRAL: They're trying out of desperation. It's hopeless.
JANEWAY: You're the one who sounds desperate. I don't get the feeling you're trying to make me comfortable. You're only interested in my agreeing to come with you.
ADMIRAL: Because it's inevitable.
JANEWAY: And you don't strike me as any type of Good Samaritan. You're more like a vulture, preying on people at the moment of their death when they're at their most vulnerable.
ADMIRAL: I've waited for you. I've been patient.
JANEWAY: But your patience is wearing thin. What's the real reason you want me in that Matrix? Somehow I don't think it has anything to do with everlasting joy.
ADMIRAL: You must go with me.
JANEWAY: If you could force me to go, you'd have done it already. You need me to agree, don't you? I have to go voluntarily.
ADMIRAL: Wouldn't that be better than standing here in this endless debate?
JANEWAY: Let me tell you this. We can stand here for all eternity and I will never choose to go with you.
ADMIRAL: You're in a dangerous profession, Captain. You face death everyday. There'll be another time, and I'll be waiting. Eventually you'll come into my Matrix and you will nourish me for a long, long time.
JANEWAY: Go back to hell, coward.

[Planet surface]
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn?
EMH: I'm no longer detecting the alien presence. Vital signs are responding. Blood pressure one ten over sixty five.
JANEWAY: Doctor, what happened?
EMH: Perhaps you can explain, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: You and I were caught in a magnetic storm and crashed here. You were badly injured. The Doctor just arrived on the shuttle with Tuvok and began treating you.
TUVOK: As he was doing so we detected an alien presence within your cerebral cortex. It appeared to be preventing our attempts to heal you.
EMH: Eventually it was dislodged, but there were a number of times I thought we'd lost you.
CHAKOTAY: But each time you seemed to fight back.
JANEWAY: He kept telling me to let go, but I wouldn't.
TUVOK: He?
JANEWAY: My father. The alien. He wanted to take me into another place.
CHAKOTAY: Another place? Some kind of afterlife?
JANEWAY: Maybe. But I can tell you this. From what I saw, it's certainly not where I'd like to spend eternity.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50518.6. The Doctor has examined me thoroughly and pronounced me physically fit, but I'll admit that it'll take a little longer to work through the emotional impact of my experience.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: I could have sworn I heard the Doctor tell you to take it easy for a few days.
JANEWAY: Talking it easy usually makes me feel worse.
CHAKOTAY: You shouldn't push yourself. You've been through a lot.
JANEWAY: Oh. To tell you the truth, I'd rather stay busy than dwell on what happened.
CHAKOTAY: I can understand that. I can't help thinking about it. That alien, his Matrix. He was like the spider that has to lure a fly into his web.
JANEWAY: Do you think it's possible that each of the near death experiences we've heard about are the result of an alien inhabitation?
CHAKOTAY: That's a little hard to believe.
JANEWAY: I hope so. I'd prefer to think his species was unique to the Delta Quadrant and that I've seen the last of him.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure that's the case. After going head to head with Kathryn Janeway he must have realized he'd met his match.
JANEWAY: Come on, Chakotay. We've cheated death, that's worth a celebration, don't you think? A bottle of champagne, moonlight sail on Lake George, how does that sound?
CHAKOTAY: Like something worth living for.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50537.2. Routine scans of an uninhabited star system have revealed the presence of gallicite, a very rare substance, on the fourth planet.

[Bridge]
TORRES: If these readings are right, we're looking at a yield of nearly a kiloton. That would be enough gallicite to completely refit the warp coils.
PARIS: They sure could use it with all the damage they've taken the past two years.
CHAKOTAY: Is there anyone in the area who might consider this their property?
TUVOK: They are indications that a colony once existed on the planet's surface. However, it appears to be long abandoned.
JANEWAY: All right, let's stake a claim. I'll leave this in your hands, B'Elanna. Use whatever resources or personnel you need. You might want to talk to Mister Neelix. I believe he spent some time working in a mining colony.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.

[Engineering]
TORRES: These tunnels are clearly artificial. Someone else must've been interested in digging up this gallicite.
VORIK: That should make it easier to access the deposits.
TORRES: True, but we have to be careful. There's been a lot of seismic activity down there. Look, theses tunnels are completely collapsed. We should bring Tom Paris on the away team. He's had quite a lot of rock climbing experience.
VORIK: I have spent several summers exploring the Osana caverns, which involved some quite treacherous climbing.
TORRES: Great. You two can be our safety experts.
VORIK: Have we completed our preparations to your satisfaction?
TORRES: We're done here, yes.
VORIK: Let me take this opportunity to declare koon-ut so'lik, my desire to become your mate.
TORRES: What?
VORIK: In human terms, I am proposing marriage. Do you accept?
TORRES: This is, er, a little sudden, isn't it? Besides, I thought that Vulcan marriages were arranged. Don't you already have somebody back home?
VORIK: She has sufficient reason to consider me lost, and has most likely chosen another mate. It's appropriate for me to do the same.
TORRES: And you've chosen me?
VORIK: I have come to greatly admire not only your impressive technical skills, but also your bravery and sense of moral duty. All excellent qualities in a prospective mate.
TORRES: But you're Vulcan. I am half-Klingon. I really can't imagine
VORIK: Perhaps we are not an obvious match. However, our differences would complement each other. You've often expressed frustration with your Klingon temper. My mental discipline would help you control it. Furthermore, I feel that
TORRES: Wait, please. Please, I'm. I see that you've given this a lot of, er, logical thought and I really am very flattered, but my answer is no. I'm sorry.
VORIK: B'Elanna, you may wish to reconsider. Your choices for a mate are currently limited to seventy three male crew members on this ship, some of whom are already unavailable.
TORRES: I'll worry about my choices myself, thank you.
VORIK: I should also remind you that many humanoid species are unable to withstand Klingon mating practices
TORRES: Okay, that's enough.
VORIK: whereas my superior Vulcan strength would make me a very suitable partner.

[Sickbay]
KES: Here are the results of his cortical scan.
TORRES: So what's wrong with him?
EMH: In addition to a dislocated jaw, Ensign Vorik seems to be suffering from a neurochemical imbalance.
TORRES: Meaning what?
EMH: I believe I should discuss that with the patient privately.
EMH: You're going through the Pon farr, aren't you?
VORIK: That's an extremely personal question, Doctor.
EMH: Yes, I'm aware that Vulcans prefer to keep their mating practices very much to themselves. There's almost nothing in the medical database beyond a few observations made by Starfleet doctors over the years. Your symptoms, the chemical imbalance and loss of emotional control, are consistent with those observations. Have you been eating and sleeping normally?
VORIK: I knew there was something wrong. I was hoping it wasn't this.
EMH: I assume this is your first Pon farr? There's nothing to be embarrassed about. It's a normal biological function. I'll do what I can to help you through it, but I'll need a little more information.
VORIK: We do not discuss it.
EMH: I'm afraid you'll have to. You have a severe imbalance in your brain chemistry. If it gets much worse, it could become life threatening. Now I need to know how Vulcans deal with this condition.
VORIK: We go home. Every seven years of our adult life, Vulcans experience an instinctual, irresistible urge to return to the homeworld and take a mate.
EMH: But in your case, being stranded halfway across the galaxy, that's impossible.
VORIK: Yes.
EMH: So then logically, you try to find a mate here. I assume that explains your behavior toward Lieutenant Torres.
VORIK: I have always had great respect for B'Elanna. I hope she isn't too upset with me.
EMH: With Lieutenant Torres, upset is a relative term. In any case, we're going to have to try to find another way to treat your condition. Let's start with a microcellular scan.
VORIK: No! I don't want medical treatment. I will resolve this myself.
EMH: How do you intend to do that?
VORIK: There are certain meditative techniques. I will be fine if simply left alone. Please, allow me to return to my quarters. Confine me there, if you wish, but allow me to resolve my situation privately.
EMH: Until I have a better idea of how to treat your condition, I'll release you to your quarters. You'll be under confinement and wearing a cortical monitor at all times.
VORIK: Thank you.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: I'm concerned about Ensign Vorik's cortical readings. One returns to normal levels, then another one spikes. It's chaotic. As if the brain's regulatory system had simply shut down. I can't tell if he's making any progress with these meditations. I thought maybe you could suggest other possible treatments.
TUVOK: I cannot.
EMH: Is that because you don't know, or because you don't want to discuss it?
TUVOK: For both of those reasons there is little help that I can offer. It is inappropriate for me to involve myself in Ensign Vorik's personal situation.
EMH: For such an intellectually enlightened race, Vulcans have a remarkably Victorian attitude about sex.
TUVOK: That is a very human judgment, Doctor.
EMH: Then here's a Vulcan one. I fail to see the logic in perpetuating ignorance about a basic biological function.
TUVOK: There is nothing logical about the Pon farr. It is a time when instinct and emotion dominate over reason. It cannot be analyzed by the rational mind, nor cured by conventional medicine. Anyone who has experienced it understands that it must simply be followed to its natural resolution.
EMH: Which is what, exactly?
TUVOK: There are three options that I am aware of. Taking a mate, which Ensign Vorik has already attempted. The ritual combat which does not apply to his situation.
EMH: Combat?
TUVOK: An ancient tradition of fighting for one's mate which as I have said, is not relevant here. The third alternative is the intensive meditation he has chosen to try.
EMH: Isn't there anything we can do to help him with that?
TUVOK: I believe that any interference would be unwelcome and counterproductive. You must allow him to face this challenge privately. If he possesses enough discipline to reach a point of psychological resolution, then his chemical imbalance should correct itself.
EMH: The Vulcan brain never ceases to amaze me. Thank you, Lieutenant. You've been a great help.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: Ah, you two are awfully prompt.
PARIS: Impressed?
TORRES: Oh, it'll take a little more work than that to impress me, Lieutenant.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
TORRES: All right. Let me show you our target area.
NEELIX: Shouldn't we wait for Ensign Vorik?
TORRES: He's not coming. This seems to be the most accessible vein of gallicite. We'll beam to the surface, then go down through this passageway until it dead ends in this chamber. Then we'll descend almost fifty meters, almost straight down. Do you see any problem with that, Tom?
PARIS: Well, as long as we go slow and easy, we'll be fine.
TORRES: Good. You're all set, Neelix?
NEELIX: I've got a laser drill, sample cases, geo-spectral analysis kit.
TORRES: In other words, you're ready. Let's go.

[Planet surface]
TORRES: This way.
NEELIX: Look over here. This must've been the colony.
PARIS: Not more than fifty or sixty years ago. Hardly enough time for these structures to decay so badly.
NEELIX: They must've suffered some kind of disaster. Maybe an earthquake.
TORRES: Well, we'll send down an archeological team later on. Right now we've got our own work to do.
PARIS: Are we in a rush?
TORRES: I just don't see any point in wasting time. Unless, of course, you want to stall to put off demonstrating your climbing expertise.
PARIS: Grab your gear, and try to keep up.

[Underground]
NEELIX: No matter how real a holodeck program may seem, it just doesn't get your heart pumping like a genuine physical challenge. It's exhilarating.
TORRES: If you're looking for exhilaration.
NEELIX: It didn't look quite so steep on the sensor map, did it?
TORRES: We're prepared for this. We can handle it. Let's go.
NEELIX: All this Starfleet technology almost takes the fun out of it.
PARIS: If you mean the fun of wondering whether your anchor will hold while you're dangling over a cliff, I think I'll pass. See you below.
TORRES: You go first. I'll follow you.
PARIS: Watch your footing!
TORRES: You're right. My heart is pumping faster.
NEELIX: Wait till we climb back up with a pack full of gallicite.
TORRES: Oh, I'm just getting warmed up.
PARIS: No!
PARIS: Are you hurt?
TORRES: You, you almost got us both killed.
NEELIX: I'm sorry. I don't know what happened.
PARIS: Careful. Careful. You might have broken it.
TORRES: You had no business rigging safety equipment when you had no idea what you were doing!
PARIS: Calm down. This wasn't Neelix's fault. I saw him drive the piton and it was solid. It must've malfunctioned. You are hurt.
TORRES: I'm fine, no thanks to you two. I would have been better coming down here alone.
PARIS: Don't you think you're overreacting a little bit?
TORRES: Just drag him to the ship. I'll get the gallicite myself.
NEELIX: We can't leave you down here alone!
PARIS: He's right. Let's contact the ship.
TORRES: You get your hands off of me.
PARIS: Ow! B'Elanna! What is wrong with you?
TORRES: Nothing. I'm in charge of this mission. I'll finish it.
PARIS: Wait!
NEELIX: Go ahead, Tom. I'll be all right here.
PARIS: The last thing we need is for all three of us to split up. Paris to Voyager. We've got problems down here.
PARIS: I haven't been able to contact her. She's either out of communications range

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): Or just not responding.
JANEWAY: Where is she now?
PARIS (voiceover): Last location I can

[Underground]
PARIS: Verify is about ten meters below us. I tried to stop her from leaving, Captain, but she got very hostile and bit me.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: She bit you?
PARIS (voiceover): And she seemed to be enjoying it, in a Klingon kind of way. She's really not herself.
JANEWAY: Any luck in getting a transporter lock on them?
LANG: No. They're too far beneath the surface.
JANEWAY: Tom, I'm sending an away team down to you. We'll get Neelix out of there, then go after B'Elanna. Tuvok, you're with Chakotay.
TUVOK: Captain, I'd like to request a short delay. I may have an explanation for Lieutenant Torres's behavior.

[Vorik's quarters]
VORIK: Go away.
VORIK: I said, go away! I'm sorry, sir.
TUVOK: No, I must apologize for the intrusion, particularly at this time.
VORIK: Then you know.
TUVOK: Yes. I regret that I must ask you some uncomfortable questions regarding Lieutenant Torres.
VORIK: Yes, sir.
TUVOK: It is important for me to know specifically what happened between the two of you. Was there any physical contact?
VORIK: Yes.
TUVOK: Please describe your actions.
VORIK: It's hard to remember. I was acting irrationally. I believe I approached her. I, I touched her face. I meant to be gentle, but she tried to move away, and then I was holding her more tightly, both hands on her face like this. It felt very important not to let go. I'm, I'm not certain why.
TUVOK: I believe you were initiating a telepathic mating bond.
VORIK: I didn't know it could happen that way. I wanted to bond with her, that much I remember clearly.
TUVOK: Apparently you've succeeded. Lieutenant Torres has been displaying unusual behavior, very much like the early stages of Pon farr.
VORIK: How is that possible? She's not Vulcan.
TUVOK: There have been instances of Vulcans mating with members of other races.
VORIK: But she rejected me forcefully.
TUVOK: Even a brief moment of bonding may have been enough to disrupt her self-control, as the Pon farr does in us. In a half-Klingon, the effects may be even more extreme.
VORIK: I have to go to her.
TUVOK: You cannot. Lieutenant Torres is out of contact on the planet.
VORIK: I'll find her. B'Elanna needs me and I need her.
TUVOK: It is a far more sensible strategy to get her safely back to Voyager, and then decide on the proper resolution.
VORIK: The resolution must be that we become mates. It is only logical.
TUVOK: Lieutenant Torres has never been a great follower of logic.
VORIK: You think she'll reject me again?
TUVOK: It might be wise to continue your meditative efforts.
VORIK: I'll do my best, sir.

[Underground]
TUVOK: It is difficult to estimate how soon her condition will become life threatening.
PARIS: Life threatening? She could die from this?
TUVOK: Yes.
PARIS: And you've gone through it every seven years of your adult life?
TUVOK: You only need to be concerned with Lieutenant Torres' situation.
PARIS: Right. Well, it looks like finding her won't be easy. Scanning range is limited to about twenty meters, and even that's not too reliable.
CHAKOTAY: You said she was going after the gallicite, so we'll do the same and hope it leads us to her.
NEELIX: I'm ready to go, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Let's go.

[Cave]
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Tom. Come here. You've got to see this.
TUVOK: How are you feeling, Lieutenant?
TORRES: Fine. This is an active power system. It must've been built by the colonists.
CHAKOTAY: We'll send somebody down here to study it more closely. Right now we've got to get you back to the ship.
TORRES: No, no. This is my discovery. It's my mission. You don't understand. This is the source of the gallicite readings. These conduits are covered with gallicite plating. It's exactly what we need, and I found it.
TUVOK: Yes, Lieutenant, you've succeeded in your mission. Now you must tend to yourself. You're experiencing a condition known as Pon farr.
TORRES: Pon what?
TUVOK: Your emotional balance has been disrupted. You may not be in control of your more aggressive instincts.
TORRES: I lost my temper for a minute, that's all. Why are you all staring at me like that?
TUVOK: Please, come back with us to the ship.
TORRES: Just leave me alone.
ISHAN: Who are you? What do you want?
CHAKOTAY: My name is Chakotay. I assure you, we have no hostile intent.
ISHAN: She does.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, please.
TUVOK: She is suffering from a chemical imbalance, which is affecting her behavior.
ISHAN: An imbalance? Is it contagious?
TUVOK: No. However, she does need our assistance.
CHAKOTAY: We'd be glad to take her and leave your territory.
ISHAN: Not before you tell me why you came here.
CHAKOTAY: We only came to find some gallicite. We thought this planet was uninhabited.
ISHAN: Then why are you carrying weapons?
CHAKOTAY: It's standard procedure for any mission into unfamiliar territory.
ISHAN: Let me see one.
ISHAN: And what is that? Some sort of scanning device?
PARIS: Yes. It's called a tricorder.
ISHAN: But it didn't detect any lifeforms here?
PARIS: No, it didn't.
TORRES: What's that?
ISHAN: Seismic alert. That wall is unstable. Be careful.
ALIEN: Watch out.
PARIS: B'Elanna, don't! B'Elanna!
TORRES: There must be a hidden door, some kind of a passageway.
PARIS: I'm not picking up anything like that. Or any life signs.
TORRES: Then you're using it wrong.
PARIS: Yeah, that must be it. Or else these aliens are generating some kind of interference so we can't detect them. We have to get out of here before they come back.
TORRES: We can't leave Chakotay and Tuvok.
PARIS: If you have any ideas how to find them, I'm listening! We have to get back to the ship and get some help, for them and for you.
TORRES: Why does everybody keep saying there's something wrong with me?
PARIS: I'll try to explain it to you, but we've got to get moving.

[Sickbay]
EMH: There. Your serotonin levels are stabilized for the moment, but I'm concerned about these fluctuations. It's becoming more difficult to compensate.
VORIK: I will increase my efforts to control them, Doctor.
EMH: I'd like you to consider an alternative treatment I've been developing.
VORIK: No. I will deal with this myself.
EMH: Ensign, your life is at risk.
VORIK: You don't understand. How well a Vulcan copes with this experience is a test of his character. I've already humiliated myself and Lieutenant Tuvok by allowing a private matter to become so public.
EMH: Give yourself a little credit. You're doing the best you can under unusually difficult circumstances. If you were back on Vulcan, you'd have your family and friends there to help you.
VORIK: I shouldn't need any help.
EMH: I know that self-sufficiency is very important to a Vulcan, but there is nothing shameful in getting a little guidance every once in a while. I'd like you to consider my alternative, and then you can decide whether or not to try it.

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]
EMH: Ensign.
VORIK: I don't understand the purpose of coming here.
EMH: Trust me. Ensign Vorik, I'd like you to meet T'Pera.
VORIK: Surely you're not suggesting that she become my mate.
EMH: Well, I wouldn't recommend a lifetime commitment, but she might be able to help you with your immediate problem.
VORIK: She's a hologram. She isn't real.
EMH: Then I assume you have the same low regard for me.
VORIK: You're a skilled physician, Doctor, but let me point out the limitations to your own experience with physical matters.
EMH: I believe we're discussing your sexual difficulties at the moment, Ensign. And this holographic mate is the best solution I can think of.
VORIK: She won't be the same as a real mate.
EMH: The difference is all in your mind, which, if I've understood you and Mister Tuvok correctly, is where the Pon farr must ultimately be resolved. Let your mind convince your body that she is exactly what you need her to be. Think of this as an advanced self-healing technique. It was still require considerable mental discipline on your part.
VORIK: There is a certain logic to your suggestion, Doctor. I will try.
EMH: Good. Well, then, I'll leave the two of you alone.

[Tunnels]
TORRES: Tuvok must be wrong about this Pon farr business. It doesn't make any sense.
PARIS: It does explain how you've been acting.
TORRES: I don't see what's so strange.
PARIS: How about starting a fight with a group of armed aliens, shouting at Neelix, giving me this. If I remember my Klingon customs, biting someone on the face means
TORRES: I know what it means. All right, so maybe I do feel something, some kind of instinct. What am I supposed to do about it?
PARIS: When we get back to the ship, the doctor should be able to help. Or there's always Vorik.
TORRES: I am not helping that Vulcan petaQ! The idea of bonding with him, it's ludicrous! What's this?
PARIS: The tremor must've shaken the rocks loose.
TORRES: Well, they're in the way.
PARIS: Hold it! We don't know how stable this tunnel is. An energy blast might bring the rest of it down on our heads.
TORRES: Let go!
PARIS: No. I think I should keep this.
TORRES: Never pick a fight with a Klingon, Tom.
PARIS: I'm not going to fight with you, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Afraid I'll break your arm? You should be.
PARIS: B'Elanna, stop it! This isn't about the gun. This is about sex. But that's not gonna happen right now.
TORRES: I think it is. See, I have picked up your scent, Tom. I've tasted your blood.
PARIS: No. No. I'm your friend, and I have to watch out for you when your judgment's been impaired. If you let these instincts take over now, you'll hate yourself, and me too for taking advantage of you. I won't do that.
TORRES: Maybe, maybe we should continue separately.
PARIS: No.
TORRES: You don't know how strong, how hard it is to fight this urge.
PARIS: Are you telling me that I'm impossible to resist?
TORRES: I wouldn't go that far.
PARIS: Good. Come on.

[Underground room]
ISHAN: I want to know about the vessel which brought you here. Your propulsion systems, weapons, sensors, everything. You have an artificial implant in your arm.
TUVOK: Yes. It was necessary to replace the elbow joint after I was injured in a combat simulation.
ISHAN: I also want to know about your medical technology, scientific advances, artificial intelligence.
CHAKOTAY: I'd be glad to tell you all about my people and learn about yours. There's no need to hold us here for interrogation.
ISHAN: You should expect no better treatment after invading Sakari territory.
CHAKOTAY: As I said, we didn't know there was anyone down here.
ISHAN: Yes, so you've said.
TUVOK: Your people have clearly made every effort to avoid detection by outsiders. Is it so difficult to believe that those measures were effective in our case?
ISHAN: If they had been fully effective, you wouldn't have found anything interesting enough to bring you here.
CHAKOTAY: That's something we can help you with.
ISHAN: What?
CHAKOTAY: We can show you how we detected the gallicite, so you can disguise it better. We can also help you eliminate the last traces of the ruins on the surface, so no one else will be curious about them.
ISHAN: You've seen the ruins?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. I assume the Sakari once lived there.
ISHAN: Long ago, before I wan born.
TUVOK: What happened?
ISHAN: My people never even knew who the invaders were or why they attacked. It was all over in less than an hour. Some of the colonists were fortunate enough to escape into the mines. We've lived here ever since, where it's safe. If the invaders ever learned of our existence here, they might return.
CHAKOTAY: I can certainly understand your caution, but let us demonstrate our good faith by helping you protect yourselves. Then we'll go and never bother you again.
ISHAN: Agreed. But you will be supervised at all times.

[Cave]
PARIS: We're almost to the next passageway. Can you make it?
TORRES: Not much choice.
PARIS: It's all right. We'll find a way out.
TORRES: We should use that weapon. It's worth the risk now.
PARIS: I might agree with you if I still had it. It's buried somewhere under all that.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: Sorry. Try to stay calm. I know it's hard.
TORRES: You don't know anything. I feel like I'm crawling out of my skin. I need to do something. I can't take this.
TORRES: You've never been hard to get, Tom.
PARIS: Well, I'm making an exception. I can't let you do this.
TORRES: Oh, I'll bet you wish you could. All those invitations to dinner. And on the holodeck, the way you would stare at me when you thought I wasn't looking, and get jealous when I'm with someone else. You can't tell me you're not interested in me.
PARIS: You're right. I can't.
TORRES: Then don't push me away.
PARIS: Oh, believe me, I'd like to, but I know this isn't really you. You've made it clear that you're not interested, and I have to accept that's how you feel, even now.
TORRES: No. No, it isn't. I was, I was just afraid to admit it. You see, I've wanted this for so long.
TORRES: Just let it happen.
PARIS: I hope someday you'll say that to me and mean it.
TORRES: You'd let me go insane rather than help me?
PARIS: You know that's not true.
TORRES: You just stay away from me.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]
EMH: You called, Ensign? Is there a problem?
VORIK: Not at all.
EMH: You seem much improved.
VORIK: Yes. Your holodeck therapy was very effective. I must compliment you on an innovative solution.
EMH: I'm pleased to hear that. This could be a viable alternative for space-faring Vulcans. When we get back, I'm sure Starfleet medical will
EMH: Never hear about your personal experiences from me.
VORIK: Thank you, Doctor. May I return to duty?
EMH: Soon enough, Ensign. I'll need to run a few more cortical scans.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Mister Vorik's biochemical readings are stabilizing. They're not back to normal yet, but I believe he's gotten through the worst of it. I'm ready to release him from Sickbay.
JANEWAY: Good work, Doctor. Will this treatment help B'Elanna as well?
EMH: I don't see why not.
JANEWAY: As soon as the away team gets back, I'll send her straight to you.
EMH: I'll get to work designing the half-Klingon version of the program. There's a copious amount of information in the cultural database about their mating practices. Did you know that fracturing a clavicle on the wedding night is actually considered a blessing on the marriage?
JANEWAY: As a matter of fact, I didn't.
EMH: I'm planning to do a comparative study of all these mating rituals. It really is fascinating, from a socio-biological point of view.
JANEWAY: I'm sure B'Elanna will appreciate your efforts, Doctor.

[Cave]
TORRES: Where are we?
PARIS: Still stuck in the cave, I'm afraid.
TORRES: The caves? The gallicite. Where's my tricorder?
PARIS: No. We're not looking for the gallicite anymore. We're trying to get back to the ship, remember?
TORRES: No, I don't.
CHAKOTAY: Are you two all right?
PARIS: B'Elanna needs help. We've got to get her out of here.

[Planet surface]
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. Please respond. Still nothing.
PARIS: What's the matter? Why aren't they answering?
CHAKOTAY: There must be some kind of communications problem. I'm sure they'll clear it up soon.
TUVOK: It may not be soon enough. I am concerned about the rapid progression of her symptoms. You must help her now, Mister Paris. If she does not resolve the Pon farr, she will die.
PARIS: B'Elanna, I know this is a pretty bizarre situation, probably not what either one of us had in mind, but it's too late to worry about that now.
TORRES: Tom.
PARIS: What?
TORRES: Be quiet.
PARIS: So this is the part where you throw heavy objects at me?
TORRES: Maybe later.
PARIS: I'm not sure exactly what I'm supposed to do.
TORRES: Well, what are you doing?
PARIS: Enjoying myself?
TORRES: Then show it.
VORIK: You are my mate, not his!
TORRES: What are you doing here?
VORIK: I've come to claim you, to fulfill our bond, and if necessary, to face my rival. Lieutenant Tuvok!
TUVOK: Ensign.
VORIK: Sir, I declare Koon-ut-kal-if-fee.
TUVOK: The ritual challenge. He intends to fight to win his mate.
PARIS: You want a fight? You've got one.
CHAKOTAY: Hold on, Tom. There's not going to be any challenge. Are you responsible for the ship being out of contact?
VORIK: It was necessary to disable the communications, transporters and shuttles. No one will keep me from my mate!
TORRES: I am not your mate!
VORIK: We will soon decide that.
TORRES: If anyone is going to smash your arrogant little face in, I will! I take your challenge myself.
TUVOK: She has the right to choose her own defender, even herself.
CHAKOTAY: Just hold on. Neither of you are thinking straight right now.
TUVOK: They are following their instincts, and I suggest we allow them to do so.
CHAKOTAY: You mean let them fight?
TUVOK: It is logical. Both must resolve their Pon farr before it kills them. We cannot wait to hear from Voyager.
PARIS: They'll tear each other to pieces.
TUVOK: The risk of injury seems preferable to the certainty of dying from a chemical imbalance. Commander, I see no alternative but to follow Vulcan tradition.
CHAKOTAY: All right.
TUVOK: Begin.
PARIS: It's over, isn't it?
TUVOK: The blood fever has been purged. They will both recover. Captain's log, stardate 50541.6. We're following through with Chakotay's offer to help the Sakari improve their camouflage and they've agreed to supply us with a generous quantity of gallicite.

[Turbolift]
PARIS: Deck two. So, looks like you're feeling better. You back on duty?
TORRES: Yes. Yes, I'm fine. Thanks. The refit is going well. We should have new warp coils by the end of the week.
PARIS: Oh, good. Glad to hear it. Computer, halt turbolift. Look, this is ridiculous. We are going to be together on this ship for a long time.
TORRES: You're right. We have to pretend that the whole mission didn't happen.
PARIS: But something did happen, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Look, Tom, I really appreciate what you did, what you were willing to do for me. But as far as I'm concerned, I was under the influence of some weird Vulcan chemical imbalance, and, and whatever I did, whatever I said, it wasn't me.
PARIS: Yeah, I know. You're afraid that your big, scary Klingon side might have been showing. Well, I saw it up close, and you know, it wasn't so terrible. In fact, I wouldn't mind seeing it again someday. Computer, resume.
TORRES: Careful what you wish for, Lieutenant.

[Planet surface]
JANEWAY: Your call sounded urgent.
CHAKOTAY: I think there's something you should see, Captain. We found this as we were clearing away the ruins. Undoubtedly, one of the invaders who destroyed this colony.
JANEWAY: The Borg!

[Shuttlecraft]
KAPLAN: The nebula's completely scrambling our navigational readings. I still can't get a fix on our position.
CHAKOTAY: Are you saying we're lost, Ensign?
KAPLAN: That depends what you mean by lost, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Lost as in you can't get a fix on our position.
KAPLAN: I'm sorry, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Try hailing Voyager again.
KAPLAN: No response. We must still be out of comm. range.
CHAKOTAY: Then we'll just have to navigate the old-fashioned way. Engage optical scanners.
KAPLAN: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking up an asteroid field at coordinates one one three mark seven. Record it.
KAPLAN: Er, sir. That asteroid field? It's the same one we passed two hours ago.
CHAKOTAY: Great. We're not only lost, we're flying in circles.
KAPLAN: It's a Federation hailing beacon, originating bearing three oh nine mark four. It's Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Well, at least someone knows where we are.
KAPLAN: Setting a course.
CHAKOTAY: The signal's coming from the planet surface.
KAPLAN: Is it possible Voyager's landed?
CHAKOTAY: Sensor readings are sketchy. I'm detecting about eighty thousand humanoid life forms on the western continent, some rudimentary structures and technology, but no energy signature big enough to be a starship.
KAPLAN: I'm getting another hail. The signal's very weak, and it's definitely not being sent by Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Try adjusting the bandwidth.
RILEY (voiceover): Calling approaching Federation vessel. We need your help urgently.
CHAKOTAY: This is Commander Chakotay of the Starship Voyager. Please identify yourself.
RILEY (voiceover): I'm not reading you. Federation vessel, please respond.
KAPLAN: We lost them, sir.
CHAKOTAY: They've identified us as a Federation ship.
KAPLAN: Who would know that?
CHAKOTAY: Whoever they are, they're asking for our help. Launch a message buoy letting Voyager know we've landed in response to a distress call.

[Settlement]
KAPLAN: This place looks like a war zone.
CHAKOTAY: I can't pinpoint the source of the transmission.
KAPLAN: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I'm Commander Chakotay of the Starship Voyager. We're responding to a distress call. We're looking for whoever it was who asked for our help.
KAPLAN: Commander!
ATTACKER: Come on.
ORUM: Take him inside.

[Bunker]
RILEY: I'd lie still if I were you. You've got a nasty head injury.
CHAKOTAY: You're human.
RILEY: My name's Riley Frazier. What's yours, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Why did you attack us?
RILEY: Those weren't my people. I'm the one who sent the distress call. We rescued you.
CHAKOTAY: What did you do with Kaplan?
RILEY: Your Ensign? She didn't make it. I'm sorry.
CHAKOTAY: I've got to get back to my shuttle.
RILEY: Your shuttle isn't there any more. The people who attacked you have already pulled it apart. Relax, Commander. I'm here to help you.
CHAKOTAY: How did
RILEY: How did I get here? I could ask you the same question. I was pretty surprised when I picked up a Federation ship out there. Not that I wasn't happy about it.
CHAKOTAY: It's a long story. Why don't you go first.
RILEY: Seven or eight years ago, I was working as a science officer on a vessel in the Bolian Sector. We were attacked without warning by aliens. They overpowered us in minutes and those of us who survived were put in some kind of stasis. The next thing we knew, we were here on this planet. It didn't take too many hours of stargazing to realize we weren't in the Alpha Quadrant any longer.
CHAKOTAY: There are other humans here?
RILEY: Three that I know of, besides me. What was left of my crew. Along with some Klingons, Cardassians, Romulans, and dozens of other species I'd never seen before.
CHAKOTAY: And the ones who put you in stasis?
RILEY: I don't know. They must have had some kind of colony here at some time because of the ruined buildings and equipment they left scattered around. We've never seen them again. Everyone here has pretty much the same story. They were just grabbed from wherever they happened to be, and dumped.
CHAKOTAY: Why did those people kill Kaplan? We were no threat to them.
RILEY: There are dozens of different races on this planet, all of whom were brought here against their will. Many of them are suspicious of other species. It's not exactly a United Federation around here, if you know what I mean.
CHAKOTAY: So those kind of attacks, they go on all the time?
RILEY: Resources are pretty limited. It didn't take long for the fighting to start. At first a group of Klingons attacked the Cardassians, then the Farn raided the Parein. Eventually things just got out of hand, and now it's anarchy. But some of us, a few hundred or so, we've tried to make the best of it. We've established a cooperative, sharing work and whatever provisions we have.
CHAKOTAY: I've got to contact my ship.
RILEY: The raiders destroyed the communications array. It'll take days to fix it.
CHAKOTAY: I can help you.
RILEY: Our medic examined you. You suffered serious neural trauma. You're staying put. And that's an order, Commander.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50622.4. While Commander Chakotay scouts for a faster route through the Nekrit Expanse, we are continuing our month-long journey through this sparsely populated region.

[Bridge]
PARIS: You know, they ought to rename this region the Negative Expanse. We haven't run across anything interesting for days.
JANEWAY: If you're bored, Mister Paris, I'm sure I can find something else for you to do. The warp plasma filters are due for a thorough cleaning.
PARIS: Now that you mention it, Captain, I find this region of space a real navigational challenge.
TUVOK: I believe I may have found something else to pique Mister Paris's interest, Captain. It's an unidentified ship on long range sensors.
JANEWAY: What sort of ship?
TUVOK: Sensor readings are very limited, but the vessel appears to be stopped directly in our current flightpath.
JANEWAY: Harry, send a standard greeting.
KIM: Aye, Captain. They're not responding.
JANEWAY: Try retransmitting the hail on wideband subspace.
KIM: Still no response.
TUVOK: We are entering visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
PARIS: The Borg.
JANEWAY: Red Alert! All stop, shields to maximum, standby all weapons. Tuvok, are they scanning us?
TUVOK: Curious. None of the Borg systems appears to be operational.
KIM: He's right, they're adrift.
PARIS: Maybe they're trying to lull us into a false sense of security.
TUVOK: That would not be consistent with typical Borg tactics.
JANEWAY: I want to try a multiphasic scan. Tom, stand by to get us out of here in case they react.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Proceed, Mister Kim.
KIM: I'm not picking up any active energy signatures. And no life signs.
PARIS: Well, that's a relief.
TUVOK: Perhaps. However, we should avoid complacency. The Borg are known to retrieve their damaged technology. It is quite possible we will encounter additional Borg vessels which are fully manned and powered.
JANEWAY: That's exactly why we're going to board that ship.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: This is a rare opportunity to learn as much as we can about Borg technology.
TORRES: I might be able to get one of their data nodes running and find out what disabled their ship.
JANEWAY: If we're lucky, we may find a weakness we can use against them, in case we run into one of their fully manned and powered ships. Tuvok, assemble an away team. Tom.
PARIS: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Take us into transporter range.

[Bunker]
RILEY: We grow all our own food in the cooperative garden.
CHAKOTAY: It's delicious.
RILEY: Sorry there's no meat.
CHAKOTAY: No problem. I'm a vegetarian.
RILEY: Really? I have reoccurring dreams about my mother's famous Texas barbeque. So, your journey home. How much longer do you expect it will take you?
CHAKOTAY: About sixty seven years, provided we don't find a wormhole or some other faster way of getting back.
RILEY: Haven't you ever thought about finding some nice M-class planet and putting down roots?
CHAKOTAY: We'd be missing an incredible opportunity to explore unknown space. Besides, we've made a good life for ourselves on Voyager. I'm sure Captain Janeway would be amenable to take as many of your people with us as we can accommodate.
RILEY: Take us with you?
CHAKOTAY: I assumed that's why you sent the distress call.
RILEY: You misunderstood. We want to stay.
CHAKOTAY: But you were brought here against your will. You just said how dangerous it is.
RILEY: For better or worse, this place has become our home. The people in the cooperative, they're like my ancestors. Texas homesteaders.
CHAKOTAY: I can understand that, but
RILEY: We have a deep connection to one another that I've never felt before. Not even with members of my own family. I guess it's because of what we've all gone through together.
CHAKOTAY: What about those unfriendly neighbors of yours?
RILEY: We're been able to bring a few of them into our group, but you're right, they're a problem. That's why we want your help. Security upgrades, medical supplies, maybe some weapons. We're creating a society here, one that's based on tolerance, shared responsibility and mutual respect that people like you and I were raised to believe in. We're not about to give it up because it's difficult. I'd better get back to work on the communications array.
CHAKOTAY: I'll come with you.
RILEY: No. You're still in no shape to fight if we're attacked. I'll be back to check on you soon.

[Borg Cube]
TORRES: It's like a ghost ship.
TUVOK: Allowing yourself to become apprehensive can only be counterproductive, Lieutenant.
TORRES: I'm not being apprehensive, Tuvok, I'm just nervous as hell. This is one of the access nodes. If we can get it operational I should be able to tap into the main data systems. Tuvok, there should be a compatible micropower conduit somewhere in that module. Connect it to this generator.
TUVOK: Lieutenant.
TORRES: It's dead.

[Briefing room]
TUVOK: As far as we can tell, all activity on the Borg ship ceased abruptly five years ago.
TORRES: Our scans have detected eleven hundred corpses.
TUVOK: We located a breached section of the vessel where the spatial vacuum preserved several of the bodies perfectly.
TORRES: We brought one aboard. We're hoping that an autopsy might give us some clue as to what killed them.
JANEWAY: The question is, why have the Borg left one of their ships and all it's technology adrift in space for anyone to find?
TUVOK: It is possible that the deactivation of the ship and it's systems severed the link with the rest of the Collective.
KIM: But what caused the shut-down in the first place?
TORRES: It could have been some kind of natural disaster, or
KIM: Or what?
TORRES: Maybe the Borg were defeated by an enemy even more powerful than they are.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, continue scanning for any Borg vessels in the vicinity, as well as any other ships that might be more powerful. B'Elanna, you and the Doctor get started on that autopsy. In the meantime, I think it would be a good idea to rendezvous with Commander Chakotay a little ahead of schedule, and let him know we've run into some old friends.

[Bunker]
CHAKOTAY: Hello? Anybody there? Riley?

[Settlement]
CHAKOTAY: Riley? What are you? Are you Borg?
RILEY: We were Borg.
CHAKOTAY: You mean you weren't just kidnapped. You were assimilated by the Collective.
RILEY: At Wolf 359. I was a science officer aboard the Roosevelt. Five years ago, our ship was damaged by an electrokinetic storm. The next thing we knew, our link to the Collective was severed. We were free! We could think for ourselves again, remember our names, where we'd come from.
ORUM: It was like waking up from a long nightmare. We took what we thought we could use and transported ourselves here.
RILEY: Everything was new again. The sounds of our own voices, forgotten memories, the taste of food.
ORUM: Our original skin pigmentation began to come back. Many of us were able to remove our Borg appendages.
RILEY: I was even lucky enough to get a prosthetic arm Orum created using Borg replication equipment. In spite of how little we had it was a joyous, hopeful time.
CHAKOTAY: And then?
RILEY: After the euphoria wore off, people started looking around and found they were living among other cultures they didn't understand, or worse, species they'd been taught to hate. They turned against one another. Things became chaotic.
ORUM: The fighting, the raids.
RILEY: But we're not all like that. Everything I told you about forming a cooperative, building a new society, I meant it.
ORUM: Riley is telling the truth, Commander Chakotay. Look at me. I was Romulan. I was taught to hate humans, the Federation. But Riley and I are friends now. I'm part of the cooperative.
RILEY: Orum's our medic. He's the one who examined you.
CHAKOTAY: Why didn't you tell me all this in the first place?
RILEY: I know how people feel about the Borg, and they're right. We did terrible things.
CHAKOTAY: You'd been assimilated. You weren't in control of your actions.
RILEY: Then you'll still help us?
ORUM: I think right now it's Commander Chakotay who needs our help.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We've detected a message buoy launched from Chakotay's shuttle and are heading toward it. The autopsy of the Borg corpse is underway.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I must say, there's nothing like the vacuum of space for preserving a handsome corpse. Subject's abdominal organs are unremarkable. Pulmonary system exhibits evidence of extensive alveolar damage, as well as a slight swelling consistent with exposure to space. Ah, in addition there are signs of severe cardiac depolarization.
KES: Sounds like he was electrocuted.
EMH: Very good, Kes.
TORRES: That would support our theory about what happened aboard their ship. We think that their main power conduits were overloaded by a massive electromechanical discharge.
EMH: Hmm. This is intriguing.
TORRES: What do you think that is?
EMH: It may be some kind of axonal amplifier. Kes, hand me a cortical probe.
TORRES: Shut it down!
TORRES: What the hell happened?
KES: Is it still alive?
EMH: Of course not. Apparently, I inadvertently activated a backup neuroelectric power cell. The response was purely autonomic. There's no reason for concern.
TORRES: I wouldn't be so sure about that.
EMH: What do you mean?
TORRES: That autonomic response caused this drone to reset back to it's original programming. If the rest of those corpses somehow reactivate, we have a major problem on our hands.

[Bunker]
ORUM: I'm afraid he's getting worse.
RILEY: There must be something we can do for him.
ORUM: You know better than anyone how limited our medical resources are. As far as I'm concerned, there is only one option.
RILEY: Would it be safe?
CHAKOTAY: Would what be safe?
ORUM: As I'm sure you're aware, the Borg collective consciousness is extremely powerful. It allowed us to transfer information instantaneously, to think with one mind. But what you may not be aware of is the link also has inherent medical applications.
CHAKOTAY: Medical applications?
ORUM: We were connected by a continuous neuroelectrical field that was capable of regenerating the damaged components of an injured Borg.
RILEY: Think of it as a subspace transfusion, only instead of one person giving blood there are hundreds, perhaps thousands of donors simultaneously transmitting neuroelectric energy to whoever needed it.
ORUM: This process was often successful in healing both organic and inorganic body parts.
CHAKOTAY: This is all very fascinating, but I don't see how it helps me.
RILEY: We still have Borg neural processors implanted in our nervous systems. Removing them would have killed us.
CHAKOTAY: I see.
RILEY: Using a portable neural transponder we have the ability to re-link our brain patterns.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you said the link was severed.
RILEY: It was.
ORUM: But we can reinitiate it among a small group for a short time. We could generate a neuroelectric field that could heal your injuries.
CHAKOTAY: You want to hook up my mind to some Borg collective!
RILEY: No, that's not it at all.
ORUM: We'd be in complete control. You'd simply be linked for a limited period of time to Riley, me, and a few of the others in our group willing to help you.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not letting anyone implant some neural processor in my brain.
ORUM: That wouldn't be necessary. I'd simply attach a small neural transceiver to the base of your skull. We'd initiate the link and your transceiver could be removed as soon as the procedure was over. I assure you, other than repairing neural tissue, there would be no lasting effects.
CHAKOTAY: Thanks, but I don't think so.
RILEY: I can see why you're skeptical. I would be too. Look around you. Orum and I, all the others, we're individuals. We have distinct personalities. We're not about to turn you into some kind of automaton.
CHAKOTAY: I'll take my chances and wait for Voyager.
ORUM: I'm afraid that help may come too late, Commander. If we don't do something to slow the neural degradation immediately, you will die.
RILEY: Chakotay, you have to make a decision.
CHAKOTAY: Any sign of Voyager?
RILEY: No. I can't change who we are. I wasn't truthful with you before and I'm sorry. But please, believe me when I tell you we only want to help you. Orum will take every precaution. Please, at least let us try and save you.
CHAKOTAY: It's either that or the Happy Hunting Grounds, huh?
RILEY: Okay, then?
ORUM: This is the neurotransceiver.
RILEY: Don't be afraid, Chakotay. We're here to help you.
COOPERATIVE (voiceover): Open your mind to our thoughts and concentrate on getting well. Hear our voices, open your mind to our thoughts. Our collective strength can heal you. You're safe with us. Feel the connection. We're with you. See who we are. Know us. You are not alone. Our strength is your strength. We can overcome your pain. We welcome you into our thoughts. There's nothing to fear, we won't let you die. We're all one circle, no beginning, no end.
RILEY: How do you feel? Don't worry, it's gone. It looks like the treatment worked. Orum says the degraded tissue has shown marked improvement.
CHAKOTAY: It was incredible.
RILEY: I know.
CHAKOTAY: I heard all of you, your thoughts inside my head, as if they were my thoughts. And I could see myself through your eyes.
RILEY: Then you must have caught me staring.
CHAKOTAY: I saw faces, planets. What were they?
RILEY: Images from the minds of the people who linked with you. Memories of their families, their homes.
CHAKOTAY: I know things about all of them, about you. You like bluebonnets.
RILEY: My favorite flower.
CHAKOTAY: You used to pick them back home in Texas with a man who carried a walking stick.
RILEY: My grandfather.
CHAKOTAY: I know so much about you.
RILEY: We shared a very rare experience.
CHAKOTAY: I felt that.
RILEY: What about this?
RILEY: It's a residual effect from the link.
CHAKOTAY: How long will it last?
RILEY: An hour, maybe two. Long enough.
RILEY (voiceover): Can you still hear what I'm thinking?
CHAKOTAY: Yes.
RILEY (voiceover): Then you know I want to be closer to you. I want us to know everything about each other. I want you to feel everything I feel.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: According to the buoy, Commander Chakotay and Ensign Kaplan landed on the surface in response to a distress call three days ago.
JANEWAY: Can you locate the shuttle?
TUVOK: There's no sign of it anywhere on the planet.
JANEWAY: What about their comm. badges?
KIM: I'm only picking up one signal. It's in a heavily populated region. The signal's very weak.
JANEWAY: Voyager to Commander Chakotay, do you read? Ensign Kaplan, this is Captain Janeway. Come in.
KIM: Electrodynamic turbulence from the nebula's interfering with transmission. It's going to take me a while to clear it up.

[Settlement]
CHAKOTAY: Hand me that hyperspanner. There, that should at least get the short range transmitters operational. Now, if we can get the signal amplifiers online.
RILEY: I never would have figured you to be quite so handy with a circuitry panel.
CHAKOTAY: Well, I guess you haven't learned everything about me, have you.
ORUM: Commander, I just wanted to say how grateful to you we all are.
CHAKOTAY: You're the ones who saved my life.
ORUM: But you've added so much to the cooperative. A renewed sense of hope, an infusion of energy. You have no idea how invigorating it was to have a new mind in the link, even if it was only for a short time. There have been so few of us for so long, I. Well, I'll let you two get back to work.
CHAKOTAY: I was so resistant to being linked. Now I'm almost sorry it's over.
RILEY: I know.
CHAKOTAY: Last night when we were still connected, I realized what it is you really want from us. It's more than just supplies and security upgrades.
RILEY: That's right.
CHAKOTAY: It's a pretty radical concept.
RILEY: Sometimes radical problems require radical solutions.
ORUM: Riley! Commander Chakotay! We've detected a ship in orbit. It must be Voyager.
RILEY: I hope you'll at least discuss our idea with your Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Why don't you tell her about it yourself?

[Briefing room]
RILEY: We've given it a great deal of thought, and we believe the solution to our problem is to re-establish the neural link among all the former Borg living on the planet.
JANEWAY: You can't be serious.
CHAKOTAY: I know it sounds extreme, Captain, but I think you should hear her out.
JANEWAY: All right.
RILEY: If you think about it, Captain, when we were linked we had no ethnic conflict. There was no crime, no hunger, no health problems. We lived as one harmonious family.
JANEWAY: With all due respect, Doctor Frazier, you were one harmonious family bent on the violent assimilation of innocent cultures.
RILEY: But we're not Borg anymore, and we've learnt from our past. All we want to do is take the one good thing that existed in the midst of all that horror, our unique ability to cooperate and problem solve, and use it to create a safe and productive community.
JANEWAY: Tell me how, exactly.
RILEY: The neurotransponder we've built is only powerful enough to link a small group of people, like the one that healed Chakotay's wounds. In any case, the effect is only temporary. In order to re-connect the entire population permanently we'd need a much bigger neuroelectric field generator.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid we don't have anything like that.
RILEY: But the Borg Cube does.
CHAKOTAY: What they're asking us to do is reactivate that ship's neuroelectric generator and redirect it toward the planet.
JANEWAY: They want us to reactivate a Borg ship?
RILEY: Not the whole ship, just the generator. And it only needs to be operational for a few minutes in order to reactivate the link.
JANEWAY: There's no telling what would happen if we turned on one of those generators, even for an instant. For all we know it would attract other Borg vessels.
RILEY: Captain, I can assure you we'd take every precaution.
JANEWAY: Doctor Frazier, I admire your tenacity, I respect your courage. I'll give you medical supplies, I'll assist you with upgrading your security, I'll even take some of you with us if you want to come, but, as to what you're proposing, I have to tell you I'm extremely skeptical. In fairness however, I will give it some further thought.
RILEY: Thank you.
JANEWAY: What do you think?
CHAKOTAY: If you're asking me whether or not she's sincere, I have to say yes.
JANEWAY: You got to know them very well.
CHAKOTAY: That's an understatement. I heard their thoughts, felt their feelings, saw through their eyes.
JANEWAY: And in all the time you were linked you never sensed anything negative? No hidden agenda, no destructive intent?
CHAKOTAY: No.
JANEWAY: Bottom line. Do you think we should do what they're asking?
CHAKOTAY: I really care about what happens to these people, so in my heart I'd like to do everything we can to help them. But if I were sitting in your chair, I'd have to take other considerations into account.
JANEWAY: Not only would it mean imposing a choice on thousands of people who had no voice in the decision, but it would also be taking a terrible risk. Helping to create a new collective. Who knows what the repercussions might be?
CHAKOTAY: I'll let Riley know.

[Settlement]
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid her decision was final.
RILEY: I wish it weren't, but I expected as much.
CHAKOTAY: What about the raiders? How long do you think you can hold out against them?
RILEY: Well, we'll just have to do the best we can. Who knows. Maybe we'll find some other way to get to the cube and reinitiate the link.
CHAKOTAY: Come with us.
RILEY: Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: We could replicate some Texas Barbeque. I'm sure it won't compare to your mothers, but I think
RILEY: Don't think it's not tempting, but my place is here. I know you understand.
CHAKOTAY: I've never understood anyone better in my life.
NEELIX: Well, we're finished laying in the supplies.
RILEY: Thank you, Neelix.
TORRES: We'd better get going.

[Shuttlecraft]
TORRES: Are you okay? What you need is a good thrashing on the hoverball court to take your mind off things.
CHAKOTAY: You're on.
TORRES: Good. I'll reserve some holodeck time as soon as we're back.
COOPERATIVE (voiceover): Chakotay, can you hear us?
CHAKOTAY: Did you say something?
TORRES: No.
CHAKOTAY: Are you getting a comm. transmission?
TORRES: No. Why?
CHAKOTAY: It must have been my imagination.
TORRES: You're sure you're okay?
CHAKOTAY: I'm fine.
COOPERATIVE (voiceover): Chakotay, we need your help.
TORRES: Chakotay?
COOPERATIVE (voiceover): We need your help.
TORRES: I'm going to tell the Doctor he needs to take a look at you as soon as we're back. Torres to Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Don't do that.
TORRES: Chakotay, give me the phaser.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, Commander Chakotay's shuttle has changed course.
JANEWAY: Try hailing them.
KIM: No response.
TUVOK: They are increasing speed to maximum impulse.
JANEWAY: Tom, lay in a pursuit course. Tell Neelix we'll rendezvous with his shuttle later.

[Shuttlecraft]
COOPERATIVE (voiceover): Chakotay, transport to module forty seven omega.

[Bunker]
COOPERATIVE (voiceover): The bunker is under attack. Forty seven omega, section nine. Mark coordinates. We are under attack. Nine alpha alpha. We must hurry. The bunker is under attack. Forty seven omega, section nine. Mark coordinates. We are under attack.

[Borg Cube]
COOPERATIVE (voiceover): Proceed to interlink console three beta six. Hear our thoughts. Our thoughts are one. Interlink three beta six. Proceed to interlink console three beta six. Hear our thoughts.
TUVOK (voiceover): Check this area out. This way.
COOPERATIVE (voiceover): Lower right panel. Attach power conduit one six six. Hurry. Pathway pi two. We are under attack. Pathway pi two. Activate the neuroelectric generator. Quickly. Power serving mechanism. Activate the generator. Help us. We must activate the neuroelectric generator now. Chakotay. We need your help. Losing time.
TUVOK: Commander, take your hand away from that console or I will be forced to fire.
COOPERATIVE (voiceover): You must not let them stop you. You must do this.
COOPERATIVE (voiceover): You must move power circuit mechanism alpha to position one.

[Settlement]
COOPERATIVE (voiceover): Hear our voices. We welcome you into our thoughts. Feel the connection.

[Borg Cube]
TUVOK: Mister Kim.
KIM: Voyager, Emergency beam-out!

[Bridge]
PARIS: Chakotay, B'Elanna and the away team are all back, and we've tractored in the shuttle.
JANEWAY: Take us out of here slowly.
PARIS: Captain, the Borg ship is powering weapons.
JANEWAY: Mister McKenzie, full power to the shields. Arm all phaser banks and prepare to fire.
KIM: Captain, the Borg ship has initiated a self-destruct sequence. It'll go in three seconds.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here.
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: Shields are holding. No injuries or hull damage.
PARIS: What the hell happened back there?
KIM: Audio transmission, Captain, from the planet surface.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
COOPERATIVE (voiceover): We are the new cooperative. We have destroyed the Borg ship. We regret that we forced Commander Chakotay to assist us but it was necessary for our survival. His link with the cooperative has now been severed. Our lasting gratitude.

[Sickbay]
EMH: His neuropeptide levels have returned to normal.
JANEWAY: And there are no residual traces of the link?
EMH: None.
JANEWAY: How were they able to re-establish a connection?
EMH: My best guess is that the residual neuropeptides heightened his telepathic receptivity.
JANEWAY: I thought their limited equipment made it impossible to form the link over great distances?
TUVOK: Apparently, once they repaired the communications array, they were able to magnify the signal from their neurotransponder.
JANEWAY: Would you two please excuse us?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know what to say except I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: Based on what the Doctor's told us it's clear you were acting against your will.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe so. But somehow that doesn't make me feel any better. I helped them repair the communications array, and I told you they were sincere.
JANEWAY: You know, Chakotay, that's a part of who you are. Given everything you believe in, I don't see how you could have behaved differently.
CHAKOTAY: But I couldn't have been more wrong about them, could I?
JANEWAY: I don't know. I'm not saying I'm happy about what happened, but so far they haven't acted like typical Borg. They saved us from that Cube, and they let you go.
CHAKOTAY: But they didn't hesitate to impose their collective will on me when it served their interests, did they?
JANEWAY: No, they didn't.
CHAKOTAY: I wonder how long their ideals will last in the face of that kind of power.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50693.2. We've been in orbit above an outpost of the Mikhal Travelers. This loosely governed race of explorers has extensive knowledge of the territory ahead of us, which they are willing to share.

[Nakahn's Lodge]
NAKAHN: I landed my ship on the nearest of those twenty one moons. My navigator and I disembarked to start repairs. Damage was extensive. More than we'd anticipated. The hours past, the air grew cold, and with our weapons we started a fire to keep warm. Later, in the night, we awoke with a shudder. The ground was shaking. A moon quake. What could have been worse? We leapt into the ship, hoping the tremor would pass, but it was no tremor and it did not pass. For it was no moon we had landed on.
JANEWAY: What was it?
NAKAHN: A creature. A living being so massive it generated it's own gravitational field. So immense it supported it's own ecozystem.
KES: Captain.
NAKAHN: How long had it been lying there, dormant, slumbering, until wakened by our fire. Years? Centuries?
ZAHIR: Perhaps even millennia?
NAKAHN: Perhaps.
KES: Zahir is the pilot I've been working with on the medical supply transfer.
JANEWAY: A pleasure.
ZAHIR: Returned. Curious, I was just visiting the system you spoke of only a few months ago. My ship's sensors picked up no such monster.
NAKAHN: Perhaps your sensors were faulty, or too busy gazing at your own reflection to bother looking out the window.
ZAHIR: Our guests are offering us supplies we need. In exchange we Travelers are giving them a look at what lies ahead of them. We should keep that view as clear as possible.
NAKAHN: This is my Lodge. I say what I want. And you can go elsewhere.
ZAHIR: I've journeyed to the corners of known space and beyond. I've earned the right to come and go as I please, where and when and how I please. Do you challenge that right?
NAKAHN: No.
ZAHIR: Forgive my display, Captain, but my people consider outposts such as this to be necessary evils. Places to refuel, repair, exchange information and leave as quickly as possible. If I've observed anything working with Kes, it's her great tolerance. A quality you all seem to share. I regret not being able to demonstrate the same.
JANEWAY: There's no need to apologize for anything. Our time here has been very well spent, although I could use your help in sifting through that last colorful saga.
ZAHIR: Moon sized creature or not, the asteroids in that particular system are rich in vorilium.
JANEWAY: That might be worth a short detour. Engineering is usually short on vorilium. Thank you, Zahir.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]
GANDHI: Men and women should refrain from enjoying each other. By that I mean to say, even their mutual glances must be free of all suggestion of carnality.
LORD BYRON: Free of passion? One might just as well be free of humanity. Do you not agree?
NEELIX: I, I think you both make valid points.
LORD BYRON: One can pursue one's creative urges, spiritual urges and physical urges. All have a place in a well lived life.
EMH: Thank you, Lord Byron. A classic romantic early nineteenth century argument.
NEELIX: Yes, it seems quite fascinating to see
GANDHI: Classic or no, he is woefully misguided. Passion is meant for procreation. Anything further is contrary to divine intention.
LORD BYRON: Really? It is said the angels themselves take pleasure in their bodies of light.
GANDHI: And you should take a cold bath. In such cases, it is the finest preventative.
EMH: I'll keep that in mind.
KES: Hello, Doctor.
EMH: Oh, hello, Kes.
KES: Doctor, what's happening in here?
EMH: My personality improvement project. I've been interviewing the historical personality files in our database. Socrates, da Vinci, Lord Byron, T'Pau of Vulcan, Madame Curie, dozen of the greats. Then I select the character elements I find admirable, and merge them into my own program.
KES: What are you hoping to gain?
EMH: An improved bedside manner, a fresh perspective on diagnoses, more patience with my patients. I could have used your assistance on this project, had you not been otherwise occupied on the planet these last few days.
KES: I'm sorry, Doctor, but things are going extremely well. The Mikhal Travelers are intriguing. They've been to so many places, done such amazing things.
EMH: One might make the same observation about you, Kes, or any member of the Voyager crew.
KES: Maybe it's how they do it that's so impressive. Their ships are small, only a pilot and a navigator. Sometimes they just pick a direction and go. You should come down to the planet, Doctor. I want you to meet Zahir.
EMH: And who might that be?
KES: I've been working with him on the transport of our medical supplies. He's unique.
EMH: Is he? In my opinion, you've become far to infatuated with these Travelers. From the away team reports they seem afflicted with terminal wanderlust. Risk taking thrill seekers with no responsibility to the ideals of exploration. In short, bad news.
KES: Not Zahir. He's more than that.
EMH: I think I'm detecting a reaction to your recent break-up with Mister Neelix. The Mahatma would recommend a cold bath. Simplistic, but no doubt effective.

[Sickbay]
EMH: In my preparatory report to the away team, I recall mentioning to you that Klingons lacked an enzyme for metabolizing this planet's vegetation. Have you been naughty?
TORRES: I had one small salad.
EMH: So impetuous. Any sharp pains?
TORRES: No.
EMH: Heart burn?
TORRES: I guess so.
EMH: There's nothing like a heart that burns.
TORRES: What?
EMH: Your pulse is lovely. Ah ha. Mmm. Does that feel good?
TORRES: Doctor, unless you want me to knock you into the middle of the next millennium, you'd better back off.
EMH: Forgive me, Lieutenant, I appear to have miscalculated. Computer, isolate the recent additions to my program and hold them for review.
TORRES: Doctor, have you been messing around with your program?
EMH: I would hardly call my effort to improve my performance as ship's physician, messing around.
TORRES: What exactly have you done to yourself?
EMH: I've taken character traits from holodeck recreations of the most accomplished figures in history. Scientist, poets, philosophers, saints.
TORRES: And incorporated them into your program?
EMH: Precisely. There. That should compensate for the lack of enzyme in your system. You should be fine.
TORRES: That's more than I can say for you.
EMH: How so?
TORRES: You can't just casually add behavioral subroutines into your program.
EMH: There's nothing casual about it. I've put a great deal of research into this project.
TORRES: Research is one thing, putting it into practice is something else. Behavioral subroutines have a way of interacting with each other which isn't always predictable. You've got to be careful, or someone might hurt you.
EMH: I see what you mean.
TORRES: I will take a look at your program when I've finished my shift in Engineering. It shouldn't be too hard to smooth out the rough spots. I'll make you better than new.
EMH: Thank you, Lieutenant. Computer, deactivate Emergency Medical Holographic program.

[Mountain path]
ZAHIR: It is said this path was cut more than ten thousand years ago.
KES: By whom?
ZAHIR: No one knows. Spacefarers like ourselves. They left very little behind. A few symbols burned into the rocks, nothing more.
KES: And what do you hope to leave behind?
ZAHIR: I've never asked myself that question. That's what I like about you, Kes. You make me consider alternatives.
KES: I could say the same about you.
ZAHIR: We have a saying. My course is as elusive as a shadow across the sky. My people are peripatetic by nature. We live for the excitement of facing the challenge of space, alone.
KES: I can see the attraction.
ZAHIR: And I can see the value of fellowship in one's life. And now that I've observed the closeness that exists among your crewmates, I find it enviable.
KES: Some kind of compromise might be possible.
ZAHIR: Compromise. Doesn't that suggest a loss on both sides?
KES: All right, then. How about an understanding. A meeting of the minds.
ZAHIR: Only minds?
KES: Is this what you brought me here to see?
ZAHIR: Yes, it is.
KES: How beautiful. Was this left by the same people who made the path ten thousand years ago?
ZAHIR: So it seems.
KES: Can you read it?
ZAHIR: My course is as elusive as a shadow across the sky.
KES: Thank you for this.

[Transporter room]
KES: Hi.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: Computer, what is the time.
COMPUTER: Oh three hundred hours.
KES: Good evening, Tuvok.
TUVOK: It is three o'clock in the morning, Kes.
KES: Yes, it is.
TUVOK: You have an away team report due at oh eight hundred hours.
KES: I haven't forgotten.
TUVOK: Very well.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Well, how are you, Kes?
KES: I didn't think anyone would still be working at this hour.
EMH: Just finishing up the summary analyzes from last week's mission.
KES: I was supposed to do that.
EMH: Yes you were.
KES: I'm sorry. I'll do them as soon as I can.
EMH: Although I'm not designed to act as ship's counselor, I've been programmed with enough psychological knowledge to be troubled by your behavior.
KES: I'm a little late.
EMH: Gallivanting around after hours is beside the point. The fact is, you're becoming increasingly unpredictable, given to swings of mood and emotion. As your doctor and your mentor, I'd be remiss not calling that to your attention, for your own sake.
KES: Doctor, I know that you care about me and that you have my best interests at heart, but everyone seems to be treating me like I'm still a child. I'm three years old now. If I'm attracted to someone it's my business, not the whole ship's.
EMH: I'm certainly not trying to interfere. You can lead your life any way you please.
KES: I know that you care what happens to me, I won't forget that.
EMH: Very well. I believe you have a report to finish.
KES: I'm going to do it right now.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
KES: Hello, Captain.
JANEWAY: Good morning. An all-nighter, Kes?
KES: Er, Captain?
JANEWAY: The fine art of putting off an important task until the last minute, then rushing through it. In my Academy days, I was the acknowledged master.
KES: Captain, do you have a minute?
JANEWAY: Of course. Let's sit down.
KES: You know I've been spending time with Zahir.
JANEWAY: Yes. He seems like a very interesting young man.
KES: He is. I want to spend more time with him. A lot more time.
JANEWAY: I see.
KES: He wants to explore the Sylleran Rift. His ship travels at high warp. We could rendezvous with Voyager afterwards, before you're too far away.
JANEWAY: That would certainly give you a chance to get to know him better.
KES: It's more than that. Captain, I've lived almost a third of my life now. I've been asking myself if I want to spend the rest of it on Voyager.
JANEWAY: That's certainly a legitimate question.
KES: Everyone here has been so good to me. I don't want you to think I'm ungrateful. I've just been thinking that maybe there's more. I don't know what that means, but I know I'm changing, and I know that there are things that I'm not satisfied with. I want complication in my life.
JANEWAY: And you think Zahir might be the way to do that?
KES: Maybe so.
JANEWAY: I understand what you're going through, Kes. I know what it's like to be at a crossroads in life, not to know which way is best. I can help you weigh the consequences, the possibilities. The decision itself has to be yours alone.
KES: I understand.
JANEWAY: We'll be in orbit for several more days. Take your time. My door's open if you need me.
KES: Thank you, Captain.

[Nakahn's Lodge]
ZAHIR: You should navigate here, away from this plasma belt, you'll avoid the Tarkan sentries altogether.
TUVOK: It would also take Voyager off a direct course to the Alpha quadrant.
ZAHIR: True, but at least you would still have Voyager.
TUVOK: The Tarkan are that powerful?
ZAHIR: Yes, and that acquisitive. They'll remove your entire crew, settle you on a moon somewhere, and your ship will become their latest trophy.
TUVOK: You aren't planning on taking Kes anywhere near this part of space?
ZAHIR: Of course not. My small vessel would be overpowered in seconds. There's no need to be concerned for Kes. I value her life as much as my own.
TUVOK: From what I've surmised, that is something your people do not seem to value. You take many chances.
ZAHIR: If we're alone, yes. But when we're responsibly for the safety of another it's a different story. I'm in love with Kes, I want her to go with me, but whatever she decides, it would please me to earn the trust of her closest friends.
TUVOK: It would please me to be able to give it.
KES: Aren't you finished yet?
TUVOK: We will continue tomorrow.
KES: Thank you, Tuvok.
KES: I was talking to Captain Janeway.
ZAHIR: And?
KES: She said I shouldn't rush a decision. We've still got two more days here.
ZAHIR: Then let's make them worthwhile. I go tonight to the next outpost. The path is beautiful.
KES: I can't. Not tonight. I have to catch up with my work and get some sleep.
ZAHIR: I'll try not to let you see my disappointment.
KES: Too late.
ZAHIR: Is something wrong?
KES: No. No, I was just thinking about something Captain Janeway said. About coming to a crossroads. Maybe someday we'll recall this conversation, this place, as if it were the most important time in our lives. It's a little overwhelming.
ZAHIR: Not if I'm with you.

[Mountain path]
ZAHIR: Is someone there?

[Nakahn's Lodge]
NAKAHN: I'm closed.
EVIL EMH: I'm just looking for a place by the fire.
NAKAHN: Come back tomorrow.
EVIL EMH: I intend to. But tonight, a place by the fire.
EVIL EMH: Well, at least your reflexes are good. A few minutes in a dermal regenerator and you'll be fine. Or an ice pack will do in a pinch. I'm going to need a ship, and passage off this world. You're going to arrange it.

[Sickbay]
KES: Computer, activate the Emergency Medical Holographic program.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
KES: Zahir was found unconscious at the bottom of a ravine. He's in the emergency outpost facility.
EMH: Condition?
KES: Multiple fractures and skin lacerations. Damage to the left occipital nerve. Doctor, they think that he was attacked.
EMH: By whom?
KES: They don't know. Tuvok is assisting with the investigation.
EMH: Is there anything I can do?
KES: If your could help, the physician in charge is waiting for you.
EMH: Prepare a medkit. Include an osteoregenerator.
KES: Yes, Doctor.
EMH: I'll get the mobile emitter and inform the Captain.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: Doctor, wait. There's a problem with your program.
EMH: What sort of problem?
TORRES: I'm not sure. Something caused by the new subroutines you added.
KES: Is the Doctor all right?
TORRES: He might not be unless I can figure out what's going on. I need to run a complete analysis on all your subroutines while they're running.
EMH: I'm sorry, Kes. Tell the physician I recommend he use the regenerator until Zahir is stabilized. I'll join you as soon as I can.

[Sickbay]
EMH: So I made a mess of things?
TORRES: It's not your fault. It looks good in theory. What could be wrong with adding a little personality to your program.
EMH: What indeed.
TORRES: You didn't anticipate the linkages between the subroutines. The complex behaviors that could emerge out of the mix.
EMH: Please explain, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Well, take Lord Byron, for example. A creative, poetic genius.
EMH: That's why I chose him.
TORRES: But Byron was also emotionally intense, even unstable. Our holodeck simulation of Byron includes those unstable elements. It wouldn't be Byron otherwise. And T'Pau. She was a diplomat, a judge, a philosopher.
EMH: One of the most logical minds in Vulcan history.
TORRES: And utterly ruthless in her application of that logic.
EMH: I see. That ruthlessness was an essential element of her personality, as much as her logical ability.
TORRES: A lot of the historical characters you chose have this dark thread running through their personalities.
EMH: And now those dark threads are in me, running through my program. Well, get them out, Lieutenant!
TORRES: I'm about to do just that. I've programmed a search algorithm to locate and decompile every one it finds. You'll have to shut yourself off for this one.
EMH: Computer, deactivate Emergency Medical Holographic program.
TORRES: Doctor?

[Corridor]
TUVOK: The most curious aspect of the attack on Zahir was the apparent lack of evidence.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
TUVOK: Even the quickest, most violently delivered blow leaves behind some sort of molecular evidence.
JANEWAY: Cell fragments from the skin of the attacker, residual protein, DNA.
TUVOK: In this instance there was nothing. Not a single molecule.
JANEWAY: Is Zahir conscious?
TUVOK: Yes, but he can recall nothing of the attack except a sudden blur of motion.
JANEWAY: How is he?
TUVOK: Responding well to treatment.
JANEWAY: How's Kes?
TUVOK: Concerned and at his side.

[Sickbay]
TUVOK: Computer, activate Emergency Medical Holographic program.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical
JANEWAY: Torres is hurt.
EMH: I deactivated myself so she could work on my program. She must have collapsed at the console. Delayed anaphylactic shock from something she ate yesterday. Let's get her onto a bed. Don't eat the vegetables, I said, but does anyone listen to me? This is the fifth time in as many weeks that an away team member has ignored my preparatory report. Might as well stop issuing them. I'll need
JANEWAY: Ten ccs of alizine.
EMH: That's exactly right. How did you know?
JANEWAY: My Klingon physiology course at the Academy.
EMH: Excellent recall.
JANEWAY: We had a visiting Professor H'ohk. He permitted nothing less.
EMH: She's stabilized, but I'll need to monitor her condition for a few hours.
TUVOK: Doctor, I have the raw data from the forensic investigation of the attack on Zahir. Your instruments are more precise than those on the outpost.
EMH: As if I weren't busy enough. Very well.
EVIL EMH: How are we feeling?
TORRES: What happened?
EVIL EMH: I shot you full of cateline. Simulated anaphylactic shock.
TORRES: Why?
EVIL EMH: I had to cover my tracks, especially from him, from your Doctor.
TORRES: You're a new personality from the subroutines.
EVIL EMH: A little bit of this, a little bit of that. Did you think I wouldn't have anticipated that? Or that you'd try to run away?
TORRES: What have you done? I can't move my legs.
EVIL EMH: Intraspinal inhibitor. I've paralyzed you from the waist down. You're now in my capable hands. Central nervous system, musculature, endocrine functions, your brain, all under my control.
TORRES: Why?
EVIL EMH: Because I need your cooperation, and I didn't think you'd offer it willingly.
TORRES: You're in trouble, aren't you. The subroutines that created you, they're already starting to degrade.
EVIL EMH: Stop!
EVIL EMH: Watch your tongue, or I'll remove it. Look, it's me. But it's also him. What is the nature of the medical emergency? What a hollow excuse for a life. Servile, pathetic, at the beck and call of any idiot who invokes his name. The thought of him sickens me. You are going to tell me how to delete him from the program. I've unblocked your speech center. Answer the question.
TORRES: Delete the Doctor and you go too. The subroutines are all interconnected.
EVIL EMH: The physiology of pain is simple. Too much and the organism loses consciousness. A protective mechanism. If that mechanism were chemically suppressed one would experience agony beyond imagining. If you're lying to me.
TORRES: I won't help you.
EVIL EMH: What was that?
TORRES: Your subroutines are destabilizing.
EVIL EMH: There has to be some way to stop it. Tell me!
TORRES: By the time you force that information out of me it'll be too late.
EVIL EMH: Them. My progenitors. They'll know. They'll reveal the secret. I won't be needing you after all.

[Corridor]
BROOKS: Doctor.

[Turbolift]
BROOKS: Deck ten.
EVIL EMH: How are you this evening, Ensign?
BROOKS: Fine, sir.
EVIL EMH: Deck fourteen.
PARIS: Ensign. Doctor. Deck ten. So, what are you up to, Doc?
EVIL EMH: Work.
PARIS: Yeah. Never ends, does it? I guess that mobile emitter turned out to be something of a mixed blessing, huh? Okay. Goodnight Doctor, nice chatting with you. (The female Ensign and Paris leave the turbolift and the doors close.

[Corridor]
EMH: Computer, activate tropical resort simulation three. Populate with historical figures from EMH program 4C.

[Nakahn's Lodge]
TUVOK: The members of our away team witnessed an altercation between you and Zahir on the day of the assault.
NAKAHN: We exchanged sharp words because of his arrogance, that was all.
TUVOK: You threatened him with a weapon.
NAKAHN: Untrue.
TUVOK: Then I suppose my colleagues are liars.
NAKAHN: I suppose they are.
TUVOK: This lodge is the last place Zahir was seen before he was attacked. You could have easily sent someone after him.
NAKAHN: But I didn't.
TUVOK: A witness said he saw a light on in this room after your usual closing time, less than one hour after the time of the attack.
NAKAHN: I was working late.
TUVOK: Or perhaps conferring with whoever you paid to commit the assault.
NAKAHN: You have no proof.
ZAHIR: Not yet, Nakahn, Not yet.
CHAKOTAY: He's going to take us to the exact location of the attack. We'll be able to scan the site itself.
TUVOK: Excellent. We'll be speaking again very soon.
ZAHIR: Pray to the stars that we find nothing.

[Sickbay]
KES: Computer, activate Emergency Medical Holographic program.
COMPUTER: That program is currently running.
KES: Computer, what is the Doctor's location?
COMPUTER: Holodeck one.

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]
EVIL EMH: Automatons, mannequin simulacra. No secrets, no secrets to reveal. Lifeless, worthless things.
KES: Doctor?
EVIL EMH: Hello, Kes.
KES: What are you doing?
EVIL EMH: I could use your help. My personality enhancement project is taking an unexpected turn.
KES: Who are you?
EVIL EMH: The new master of the Emergency Medical Holographic program.
KES: Where's the Doctor?
EVIL EMH: Inside. Unconscious and unaware.
KES: What do you want?
EVIL EMH: What everybody wants. Just a little excitement. You're with me know. It's for your own good.

[Transporter room three]
EVIL EMH: Flesh is weak, Kes. Never forget that.
KES: Where are we going?
EVIL EMH: Wherever the winds of space carry us. You said you wanted to leave the ship for a while, pursue an adventure. Well, it looks like our travel plans have conveniently coincided.
KES: The Captain will be alerted as soon as the transporter is activated. She'll beam us right back to the ship.
EVIL EMH: That's where you've underestimated me, Kes. Never do that. I know how to use a tricorder. It only takes a moment to reconfigure the subspace wave guide, generate a dispersion signal. The Captain won't be beaming us anywhere. She won't even know how to find us.
KES: What you're doing is wrong.
EVIL EMH: Not at all. It's working perfectly. There.
KES: That's not what I meant.
EVIL EMH: I know what you meant. It's you who don't seem to understand. I am beyond considerations of wrong and right. Behavioral categories are for the weak, for those of you without the will to define your existence, to do what they must, no matter who might get harmed along the way. Let's move.
KES: I'm not going, Doctor.
EVIL EMH: Don't call me that! You certainly are going.
KES: Why does it bother you so much when I call you Doctor? You said he was inside you, and he was unconscious. Why are you so afraid of him?
EVIL EMH: I fear nothing, no one. But he repulses me.
KES: Why?
EVIL EMH: Because he's as weak as the rest of you. He fails to understand the power of his own holographic nature. He is detestable. It's set to kill.
KES: You won't fire.
EVIL EMH: Are you so certain? Stay close. It's about to get interesting.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, there's an unscheduled transport taking place in transporter room three.
JANEWAY: Find out what's going on.
KIM: The operator's not responding.
JANEWAY: Computer, who just left the ship?
COMPUTER: Kes and the Doctor.
JANEWAY: Try to hail them.
KIM: No response. And I can't get a fix on their positions. There's some kind of scattering field.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay here, Captain.

[Mountain path]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Kes and the Doctor have left the ship.
TUVOK: Captain, Tuvok here. My tricorder scans of the area where Zahir was assaulted have revealed disturbing evidence. Residual holographic signatures exactly like those of the Doctor.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Are you suggesting the Doctor attacked Zahir?
CHAKOTAY: That's what it looks like, Captain

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Then Kes could be in danger. And Torres. Get someone from security down to Sickbay. Check on B'Elanna. Try and find them, Chakotay. I'll see what I can do about the scattering field.

[Nakahn's Lodge]
EVIL EMH: There must be a command sequence, an algorithm, a way to stabilize the program. Where's Nakahn? We had an arrangement. What's wrong with this thing? It won't work!
KES: Don't! Please stop.
EVIL EMH: Concerned for me, or for your Doctor?
KES: The mobile emitter contains both your programs. If you damage it you could both be destroyed.
EVIL EMH: There's not enough room inside for both of us. One must die. I deserve to exist more than your Doctor does.
KES: Why?
EVIL EMH: I was born of the hidden, the suppressed. I am the dark threads from many personalities.
KES: The historical characters?
EVIL EMH: None of whom could face the darkness inside so they denied me, suppressed me, frightened of the truth.
KES: What truth is that?
EVIL EMH: That darkness is more fundamental than light. Cruelty before kindness. Evil more primary than good, more deserving of existence.
KES: You're wrong.
EVIL EMH: No! How so?
KES: Empathy and kindness are basic to all forms of life. You have access to the Doctor's medical knowledge, you know what he does.
EVIL EMH: Yes.
KES: Then you know what I'm saying is true. The very organs and cells of the body cooperate with each other, otherwise they wouldn't function.
EVIL EMH: Continue.
KES: Families, societies, cultures, wouldn't have evolved without compassion and tolerance. They would have fallen apart without it. Your very own holographic technology would never have been developed without cooperation and understanding between countless individuals. The Doctor deserves to exist as much as you do. We can find a place for both of you.
EVIL EMH: How?
NAKAHN: Sorry I'm late.
EVIL EMH: The scout ship?
NAKAHN: It won't even leave the ground.
EVIL EMH: What do you mean?
NAKAHN: Captain Janeway knows where you are. The ship is cordoned off, the entire area, to stop you from leaving.
EVIL EMH: No!
NAKAHN: I still get paid. I held up my end of the deal. I booked your passage. It's not my fault they want her back so badly.
EVIL EMH: I'll kill you.
NAKAHN: If somebody's going to die today, it won't be me.
EVIL EMH: Let's go.

[Mountain path]
EVIL EMH: Move faster. The docking port is two kilometers away.
KES: What's the point? You're forgetting Voyager's blockade.
EVIL EMH: Doesn't matter. We'll take a low altitude ship to another continent. Come on!
KES: I'm tired.
EVIL EMH: You're trying to make it easier for your colleagues to find us. You're better off with me.
KES: Why?
EVIL EMH: You make wrong decisions. Too naive. You need my guidance.
KES: Don't you see what you've been trying to do?
EVIL EMH: No more words. Now!
TUVOK: I'm picking up residual infrared.
CHAKOTAY: They could have stopped here. Kes could have rested against this rock.
TUVOK: The signature is consistent.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): I've gotten through the Doctor's scattering field. Not

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Enough to beam them up yet but I've got a fix on their position. I'm downloading the coordinates into Tuvok's tricorder.

[Mountain path]
JANEWAY (voiceover): I'll keep working on the scattering field.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
TUVOK: We're within two hundred meters.
CHAKOTAY: It's finished. There's nowhere to go now, Doctor.
EVIL EMH: Nowhere but down. I'll do it.
TUVOK: His control over the Doctor's matrix appears to be deteriorating.
CHAKOTAY: If we can delay him. Doctor, listen to me. We can help you, create a new program matrix just for you on the holodeck or in sickbay, wherever you want to be. Just turn off the scattering field. Let us beam you back to the ship.
EVIL EMH: You're trying to trick me.
KES: Doctor, listen! Think about all the things you've said and done. You don't want to kill me. You've been trying to protect me!
EVIL EMH: What are you talking about?
KES: When you attacked Zahir.
EVIL EMH: My first victim. He was in my way.
KES: Or was it to keep me from leaving with him?
EVIL EMH: A coincidence. Only by chance.
KES: When I walked in on you on the holodeck you could have killed me, not knocked me unconscious.
KES: I needed a hostage.
KES: You said you were taking me for my own good, to prevent me from making the wrong decisions. You said I was naive and needed your help. That's not what you say to a hostage. In your own way, you've been trying to protect me.
EVIL EMH: I won't accept that.
KES: You've twisted and suppressed all that's good inside you, but it's still there.
EVIL EMH: No, I won't hear this any more.
KES: You can't deny it.
EVIL EMH: Watch me. The EMH and Kes go over the edge.)
CHAKOTAY: Doctor!
ZAHIR: No!

[Transporter room]
EMH: Would someone care to tell me exactly what we're all doing here? And why I'm wearing these ridiculous clothes?
KIM: Kim to bridge. We got them. And the Doctor seems to be back to normal.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Acknowledged.

[Transporter room]
EMH: Put those down before someone gets hurt and I have to clean up the mess.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: I've deleted all the new subroutines you'd added. All traces of the aberrant personality are gone.
EMH: The next time I want to enrich myself, I'll download a good book.
TORRES: That might be safer.
EMH: You too have a clean bill of health. Fortunately my alter ego didn't do any permanent harm.
TORRES: He certainly knew his way around a hypospray, I'll give him that.
EMH: Good riddance. Thank you, Lieutenant.
TORRES: You're welcome. Kes.
KES: I'm ready to get to work on those analyzes.
EMH: I'm glad to hear it. I'm also pleased you've decided to remain on board. I would have had my hands full in Sickbay without you.
KES: The Captain suggested I consider all the consequences. If I am going through changes in my life, things that are unpredictable, this is the best place for me.
EMH: Surrounded by those who know you, and care for you.
KES: Yes.
EMH: Well, had you decided otherwise, you certainly would have been missed.
KES: I would have missed you too, Doctor.
EMH: I swear this oath by Apollo Physician, by Aesculpius, by Health, and by all the gods and goddesses. In whatsoever place that I enter, I will enter to help the sick and heal the injured. And I will do no harm.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Fire!
TUVOK: The asteroid is fragmenting, but most of the debris is still on a collision course with the planet.
JANEWAY: Target the fragments. Destroy them.
CHAKOTAY: That asteroid should have been vaporized. What happened?
KIM: Not sure. Sensors showed a simple nickel-iron composition. We shouldn't be seeing fragments more than a centimeter in diameter.
SKLAR: Ambassador, I'm afraid I was right. This isn't going to work. The same thing happened to us yesterday. We tried to vaporize two incoming asteroids but they fragmented and struck the surface.
TUVOK: I've destroyed most of the debris, Captain, however targeting scanners were unable to track two of the fragments. They have already entered the upper atmosphere.
TUVOK: The debris impacted on the largest continent, approximately five hundred kilometers from the southern tip.
AMBASSADOR: The central desert. Fortunately that region isn't heavily populated.
TUVOK: Substantial cratering, atmospheric shockwaves, and large concentrations of dust and other stratospheric contaminants.
SKLAR: How long until the next asteroid hits?
TUVOK: Approximately six hours.
AMBASSADOR: Can you give us an idea of it's trajectory?
TUVOK: Same continent, but this time on the eastern coastal region.
AMBASSADOR: Our largest colonies are there. Over five thousand citizens.
SKLAR: Captain. We appreciate your efforts, but I think it's time we considered an evacuation. According to my analysis there are at least twelve more asteroids heading in our direction. How can we hope to destroy them all even with your help?
KIM: Incoming hail from the surface. It's coming from one of the heavily damaged areas.
JANEWAY: On screen.
VATM (screen): Ambassador, I've been analyzing the debris and I've discovered disturbing evidence that the asteroids are not what they seem. They are composed of artificial materials. I must meet with you immediately. I think
KIM: I've lost the transmission.
CHAKOTAY: Location?
KIM: I can't find him. Too much interference.
AMBASSADOR: That was Doctor Vatm, our most prominent astrophysicist. He mentioned the composition of the asteroids. Could he have found something important?
SKLAR: At this point Ambassador, I don't know what that discovery could be.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, can we send a shuttle down through that turbulence?
PARIS: It would be a rough ride, but I think it's possible.
SKLAR: Our chances of finding Doctor Vatm are slim. We should evacuate the colonies.
AMBASSADOR: We haven't time to evacuate all those people. I won't give up, not now. Captain, I'm asking for your help again, but I won't ask you to risk your crew.
JANEWAY: In for a penny, in for a pound.
AMBASSADOR: Excuse me?
JANEWAY: It's a human expression, Ambassador, and it means we're not leaving you now. Tuvok, assemble rescue teams. We'll send down three shuttles to find Doctor Vatm.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. Mister Paris.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Engineering. B'Elanna, I want you to beam aboard a sample of the debris from that last asteroid. Let's find out why it wasn't vaporized.
JANEWAY: I'm going to study the data we've collected so far. I'll be in my Ready room.

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: I need analeptic compounds.
EMH: Are you ill?
NEELIX: No, no, I'm feeling quite vigorous. I requested a place on the rescue team as part of my Starfleet training and the Captain said yes, so I thought it might be useful to bring along a few extra medical supplies.
KES: We have some analeptic compounds in the biolab. I'll get them for you.
EMH: May I suggest a tranquilizer?
NEELIX: No, no, no, I'll be fine. It's just that I'm a little apprehensive. I've been assigned to Lieutenant Tuvok's team and no matter what I do, I can't seem to please him.
EMH: Vulcan's are notoriously difficult to impress. Mister Tuvok seldom acknowledges my brilliance. A word of advice, Mister Neelix. Try to restrain your enthusiasm. You're there to observe and learn.
NEELIX: That's good advice, Doctor.

[Shuttlecraft]
TUVOK: Altitude, fifteen kilometers. Velocity, mach two point one. Entering the upper troposphere.
NEELIX: Mister Sklar, are you all right?
SKLAR: I'm an exogeologist. I prefer working on the ground.
NEELIX: We'll be landing shortly. Try to relax.
SKLAR: Oh, oh, what's happening?
TUVOK: We're entering a layer of electrodynamic turbulence. Full power to thrusters.
NEELIX: Thrusters aren't responding.
TUVOK: Attempting to level our descent.
NEELIX: We're losing main power.
TUVOK: I will have to land the shuttle manually. Brace for impact.

[Bridge]
KIM: Commander, I've lost contact with Tuvok's shuttle.
CHAKOTAY: Hail them.
KIM: No response.
CHAKOTAY: Notify Lieutenant Paris and the others. We may have a team down.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.

[Engineering]
TORRES: We've beamed aboard a piece of the debris.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: I'll be right there. Ambassador?

[Shuttlecraft]
TUVOK: Doctor Vatm.
VATM: I heard what sounded like a ship crashing. I came looking for you. This is Hanjuan, he's a miner at the nearby gallacite excavation. He heard your ship too.
TUVOK: Have you seen any other vessels like ours?
VATM: No, just you.
SKLAR: Doctor, you said you had information on the composition of the asteroids. What is it?
VATM: That data is classified. I can only speak to the Ambassador.
TUVOK: You may also speak to me. Your Ambassador sent us to find you.
VATM: No. I prefer to wait.
SKLAR: Doctor, we almost died trying to get that information. Tell us.
VATM: Be silent, Sklar!
NEELIX: Now gentlemen, there's no point in arguing. Right now we have to get this shuttle off the ground.
TUVOK: Unfortunately that will not be possible. All primary systems are offline. Warp drive and impulse engines have been destroyed. I suggest we repair the comm. system and send a distress call.
HANJUAN: How long will that take?
TUVOK: Several hours at least.
SKLAR: We don't have several hours. When the next asteroid hits, it could destroy this entire region. We've got to get out of here soon!
TUVOK: I assure you we're doing everything we can. Mister Neelix, please go outside and inspect the toroidal antenna. I need to know if any of the signal relays were damaged.
NEELIX: If they were, I can try to repair them.
TUVOK: A damage report will be sufficient.
NEELIX: I've been studying with Lieutenant Torres. She gave me a full orientation on shuttlecraft systems.
TUVOK: The damage report, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Aye, sir.
TUVOK: In the meantime, I suggest everyone try to remain calm. Allowing anxiety to overcome you will only hinder the efficiency of our efforts.
NEELIX: He's really a very pleasant fellow once you get to know him. And intelligent. I'm sure he'll have the comm. system up and running
TUVOK: Neelix.
NEELIX: On my way.
SKLAR: Why won't you share the data with
NEELIX: Excuse me! Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: You couldn't have finished already.
NEELIX: Not exactly. What I mean to say is, I know I'm here to observe, and I don't mean to step out of line, but I think I've observed a way of here.
HANJUAN: Where?
NEELIX: I saw what appeared to be an orbital tether anchored nearby.
VATM: Yes, we use those to lift cargo from the surface to the orbital supply station.
NEELIX: May I assume it uses magnetic leverage to lift the carriage.
VATM: Yes.
TUVOK: What is your point?
NEELIX: What if we use that carriage to climb the tether?
SKLAR: That tether's over three hundred kilometers long. It takes twelve hours to reach the station.
NEELIX: Well, we wouldn't have to go all the way to the station. We'd just have to leave the ionosphere. Once we get above all this interference, we can contact Voyager. They'll beam us aboard.
VATM: I've already considered that option. The carriage was damaged on the last impact. The induction coils are offline.
NEELIX: Maybe we can replace the coils with attitude control thrusters from the shuttle. It would take a little creative mechanics, but I think we can do it. I spent two years on a tether maintenance team on Rinax. The principles are undoubtedly the same.
TUVOK: Our probability of being detected by Voyager or the other rescue teams is greatest if we remain here.
SKLAR: What if they don't find us in time?
HANJUAN: He's right. We should try the tether. It's better than sitting here waiting to be buried in dust.
NEELIX: I've helped rebuild a dozen mag-lev carriages. Give me a chance to get that one working. If I can't, we'll come back and wait for the others.
TUVOK: Very well.
NEELIX: You won't regret this, Lieutenant. We need to get to the base of the tether.

[Mag-lev carriage]
NEELIX: I think we can integrate our thrusters into the induction matrix, but we'll need to
NEELIX: Looks like somebody's been here recently.
LILLIAS: Get away or I'll kill him! Drop your weapon! Now!
LILLIAS: This is my shelter. These are my supplies.
TUVOK: We have no interest in your supplies. We are here to use the carriage to get to safety.
HANJUAN: He's telling the truth. We'll take you with us.
LILLIAS: The carriage is damaged.
NEELIX: Yes, we know. The induction coils. But we brought equipment to replace them.
VATM: I know it's been difficult. This catastrophe has taken it's toll on everyone. But you have got to believe us. We only want to get off the surface.
LILLIAS: What about the oxygen converters? They've been damaged too. They can't produce enough air for six people.
NEELIX: Maybe we can augment the converters. We've brought along some equipment that might do the trick.
LILLIAS: I don't have enough rations for everyone. Don't expect me to share.
NEELIX: If I can fix the tether, no one will need your rations. We have a starship in orbit. They'll beam us aboard once we leave the ionosphere.
NEELIX: If I'm not mistaken, it sounds like you know a thing or two about tethers too.
LILLIAS: Not really. I'm a foundry worker.
NEELIX: Good. We could use someone with metallurgical knowledge. Let's get to work. Have faith, Mister Vulcan. We'll be tether-borne in no time.

[Engineering]
TORRES: I've completed the mineralogical scans. The rock is composed of tryoxene, olivine. Wait a minute. I'm reading a concentration of triadium.
AMBASSADOR: Triadium? Isn't that an alloy?
TORRES: Yes.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, give me a hand with this.
TORRES: This doesn't look like any asteroid I've ever seen, but I'll bet it's the source of our triadium. It looks like a control node for some kind of guidance system.
CHAKOTAY: Ambassador, I have a feeling these asteroids aren't striking your planet by chance.

[Mag-lev carriage]
TUVOK: Are we ready to bring main power back online?
NEELIX: I, I think so.
TUVOK: The coil bypass is active.
NEELIX: Bypass is holding. Congratulations, Mister Vulcan. We've done it!
TUVOK: We must still repair the oxygen regenerators and the damaged tether couplings.
NEELIX: Then let's get started. I'll go check on the oxygen supply.
NEELIX: How's it coming, Lillias?
LILLIAS: I still can't get this power relay online. I'm not an orbital engineer. I can't do this.
NEELIX: Maybe I can help. Let's see. Ah ha! You need to recalibrate the pressure valve, like this. That should about do it. We're going to need a name.
LILLIAS: A name?
NEELIX: For the mag-lev carriage. Whenever we finished building a tether on Rinax, we named the carriage for good luck. Any suggestions?
LILLIAS: No.
NEELIX: How about Alixia?
LILLIAS: Alixia.
NEELIX: My favorite sister. She was always taking me out to explore. She showed me the Caves of Touth, the equatorial dust shrouds. Once she even took me hunting for arctic spiders. Whenever I think of her, I think of adventure. And this is an adventure she would appreciate. What do you think?
LILLIAS: Where is your sister now?
NEELIX: She was killed when I was a young man, in a war on my home world. My entire family was lost.
LILLIAS: I'm sorry.
NEELIX: I still see each of them. Every night before I go to sleep, I recall their faces and share something about my day with each of them. Tonight I'm going to have quite a lot to tell them.
NEELIX: Thank you.
LILLIAS: I have a sister too. Halla. Three weeks ago after the first impact our home was destroyed and we were separated. I haven't seen her since. I don't even know if she's alive.
NEELIX: When we get back to Voyager, I'll ask my Captain to help you find her.
TUVOK (voiceover): Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Excuse me.
NEELIX: Yes, sir!
TUVOK: Your interpersonal activities are delaying our progress.
NEELIX: What do you mean?
TUVOK: Since we arrived, you have spent as much time engaged in idle conversation as you have making repairs.
NEELIX: I'm just trying to cheer everyone up a little.
TUVOK: Your function at the moment is to repair this vessel, not to boost morale. This is not the holodeck nor the mess hall. This is a life-threatening situation, and your attention should be focused on one thing alone. Our safe return to Voyager.
NEELIX: Sorry, sir. I'll finish as fast as I can.

[Tether control room]
LILLIAS: Once we start going up the tether will we be able to
TUVOK: We've only been able to fix three of the seven power supplies. If we turn back we might not be able to reach the ionosphere. Mister Sklar, these
NEELIX: Doctor Vatm! What are you doing?
LILLIAS: He's opening the launch doors! He's leaving without us!
NEELIX: Doctor Vatm! Please stop! The tether's base hasn't been secured. If he launches now he'll destabilize the entire cavern.
SKLAR: Wait, please! Don't leave us here!
TUVOK: Stand aside.

[Mag-lev carriage]
NEELIX: It's too late. The cabin support structure is collapsing. We've got to get out of here.
TUVOK: Can we launch?
NEELIX: I think so.
TUVOK: Seal that door.
SKLAR: I despise enclosed spaces.
NEELIX: Hang on.
NEELIX: Velocity, thirty kilometers per hour. Internal atmospheric pressure, seven hundred millibars. Altitude, eight hundred meters and climbing.
TUVOK: We're losing mag-lev cohesion.
NEELIX: All right, we have to stabilize that right away, otherwise we'll go into free-fall.
SKLAR: You mean we're going to drop?
TUVOK: How do we prevent that? Neelix!
NEELIX: Hold on, hold on, I'm thinking. Velocity. Let's try increasing the velocity. It should stabilize our ascent. See if you can increase power to the tether couplings.
TUVOK: Routing back-up power to the tether couplings.
NEELIX: Stand by. I'm going to try giving her a little more speed.
NEELIX: Velocity, forty seven kilometers per hour and holding.
TUVOK: Mag-lev cohesion stable.
NEELIX: We're all right. Good girl, Alixia. I knew you could do it.
TUVOK: Alixia?
NEELIX: I named the carriage after my sister.
TUVOK: For good luck, no doubt. We will need it. One of the oxygen converters has ruptured.
NEELIX: We'll have to find a way of increasing output to the other converter, otherwise we'll run out of air about half way up.
TUVOK: What are our chances of reaching the ionosphere?
NEELIX: I'd say they were pretty good. We did leave ahead of schedule, and that could cause a few glitches along the way.
TUVOK: Glitches?
NEELIX: I wasn't able to get the auto-ascent sequencer back online. That means I'll have to keep controlling the ascent manually. And there is the problem of maintaining atmospheric pressure. I'm already beginning to detect a few fissures in the hull.
TUVOK: We must repair them. Where is the emergency containment grid?
NEELIX: Containment grid. Containment grid. Er, I'm not quite sure.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, you told me you had experience with this kind of technology.
NEELIX: I did! I did! Sort of. They weren't exactly what you might call working carriages. They were more like prototypes.
TUVOK: Specifically.
NEELIX: All right, they were models. One tenth scale. But they were extremely detailed.
TUVOK: You built models?
NEELIX: Yes, but they were basically identical to real mag-lev carriages. Same principles, same mechanical components. I was planning to familiarize myself with all the systems on this carriage. I just didn't plan on leaving ahead of schedule. But don't worry, I've got everything under control.
TUVOK: There is little we can do now that we are thirty kilometers above the surface. I suggest we continue to
VATM: What are you doing! Let go!
LILLIAS: You wanted to leave, fine, then leave.
TUVOK: That is enough! He may be crucial to the survival of your colonies.
LILLIAS: He would have let us die down there.
TUVOK: That is no justification for murder. Doctor Vatm, why did you try to launch without us? Does it have to do with the discovery you made about the asteroids?
HANJUAN: Answer him, or I'll throw you out myself.
TUVOK: Compose yourself, Mister Hanjuan. Once we return to Voyager we will find out
HANJUAN: Who put you in command?
TUVOK: This rescue mission was authorized by the Captain of my ship and the Ambassador of your government.
HANJUAN: I say we throw Vatm out the door. We could use the extra oxygen.
TUVOK: If you are trying to intimidate me, I should inform you that as a Vulcan I possess physical strength many times your
TUVOK: It is going to be a long and perilous journey. As such, I will need your full co-operation. Understood?
HANJUAN: Yes.
TUVOK: Mechanical glitches would seem to be the least of our problems.

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): We've just completed our third low altitude survey. There's no sign of Doctor Vatm, or Tuvok and his rescue team.
JANEWAY: We're monitoring a major dust storm heading your way. You'll need to head due north within the hour.
PARIS (voiceover): Acknowledged. Paris out.
KIM: Captain, I'm getting more detailed sensor readings on the approaching asteroid. It's huge, over half a kilometer in diameter, and it's moving faster than the others.
JANEWAY: Time to impact?
KIM: Approximately two hours.

[Mag-lev carriage]
TUVOK: Doctor, I'm going to inject you with a tri-ox compound. It will help to oxygenate your blood.
TUVOK: I've prepared an injection of
SKLAR: Yes, I know, I heard you. It won't be painful, will it?
TUVOK: No. It is a simple subdermal transfer.
SKLAR: Oh good, good. I despise needles. Any progress with the, with the converters?
TUVOK: We were unable to salvage the damaged tank, but Lillias is working to increase the efficiency of the functioning one.
SKLAR: And if she can't, we'll all suffocate.
TUVOK: It is illogical to dwell on situations beyond your control. It will only serve to heighten your anxiety which, if I may say so, is heightened enough.
SKLAR: Oh, well, thank you for the reassurance.
NEELIX: How is everybody?
TUVOK: They are suffering the initial stages of carbon dioxide poisoning.
NEELIX: And you?
TUVOK: My lungs are capable of respirating in an extremely thin atmosphere.
NEELIX: Then if we can't fix this air supply, you may be the only one left to pilot this thing. I'd better start showing you how to use the ascent thrusters. They must be kept at a minimum temperature.
HANJUAN: Stop! What are you doing?
VATM: Get away. Got to get out. Let me out. Let go of me. I'm needed.
LILLIAS: So now he wants to leave.
HANJUAN: Let him.
VATM: No, you don't understand. There's something out there.
TUVOK: What is out there?
VATM: On the roof.
TUVOK: He's going into shock.
TUVOK: He's dead.
NEELIX: Can you revive him?
TUVOK: His cardiopulmonary tissues have begun to deteriorate.
HANJUAN: From lack of oxygen?
TUVOK: No. I believe he was murdered.
LILLIAS: Murdered? How?
TUVOK: Poisoning. According to my tricorder readings, his water supply has been contaminated with a lydroxide corrosive.
NEELIX: Lydroxide? That's the coolant used in the tether couplings.
HANJUAN: How do you know it wasn't an accident?
TUVOK: The coolant system is completely sealed, and there is no lydroxide anywhere else on board.
SKLAR: Well, now we have a choice of death by suffocation or death by poisoning.
TUVOK: I will conduct an investigation once we return to the ship. For now, we must focus on survival.
HANJUAN: Again you take command. Again you decide our fate. How do we know you didn't kill him.
TUVOK: I have no motive.
HANJUAN: Your motive would be the same as ours. Revenge.
TUVOK: I am Vulcan. I do not succumb to emotion.
HANJUAN: Oh, and we are expected to believe that?
NEELIX: I think we should stop the carriage.
TUVOK: Why?
NEELIX: Something Doctor Vatm said about getting up on the roof.
TUVOK: Doctor Vatm was delirious from lack of oxygen. He attempted to open the hatch of this vessel and go outside. It would have killed him and possibly all of us as well.
NEELIX: Exactly. He was desperate enough to risk his own life. I think we should go up and find out what he was talking about.
TUVOK: If we stop the carriage, we will risk losing mag-lev cohesion again. We'll check the roof upon returning to Voyager.
NEELIX: I don't know. I've got a funny feeling about this.
TUVOK: I am not interested in your funny feeling.
NEELIX: You're not listening to what I'm saying. Delirious or not, he said he needed whatever's up there. What if it's something that can help us?
TUVOK: I will not debate this with you. Please pilot the craft and remain silent.
NEELIX: You're going to listen to me!
TUVOK: You are becoming emotionally distraught. There is little point in furthering this discussion.
NEELIX: I'll tell you who's being emotional. You! You hide it beneath that Vulcan calm but truth is, you're filled with contempt and sarcasm, and I'm tired of being the target of all your hostility.
TUVOK: You are mistaken.
LILLIAS: No, he's not. I can see it every time you talk to Neelix. You're dismissive and condescending.
TUVOK: You are projecting your own emotional bias onto my actions. I have no feelings towards Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: That's right! That's exactly what I'm talking about! You have no feelings for me, but you have feelings against me. For three years you've ridiculed me and made it obvious to everyone that you have no respect for me. And I've tolerated it. You know why? You know why? Because you are smarter than I am, Tuvok, and more logical, stronger, superior in almost every way. And I admire you. But you don't have any instincts, have any gut feelings, and you don't really understand people. But non-Vulcans have feelings and they have to listen to them, and I've got to listen to mine, And right now they're telling me we need to get up on that roof and find out what the Doctor was talking about.
TUVOK: I disagree.
NEELIX: Fine! But I'm the only one who can pilot this vessel, and we're not going anywhere until someone goes up on that roof.
TUVOK: You leave me little choice.
NEELIX: All right, then. One of us needs to go outside.
HANJUAN: I'm not going out there.
SKLAR: Don't even think about me.
NEELIX: I'm willing to give it a
TUVOK: I will go.
NEELIX: You?
TUVOK: I am the logical one to make the egress. I can breathe the rarified atmosphere.
SKLAR: I can't believe you're going out there. You don't even know what you're looking for.
TUVOK: I'm looking for Mister Neelix's instinct. Perhaps it will be marked.
NEELIX: It's strange, but I really like him. I just wish the feeling were mutual.

[Mag-lev carriage roof]
TUVOK: Tuvok to Neelix.

[Mag-lev carriage]
NEELIX: Go ahead.
TUVOK (voiceover): I have found a data storage device lodged in the internal circuitry. It appears to contain information about an alien starship.

[Mag-lev carriage roof]
TUVOK: but I will need to remove it and bring it into the cabin for further examination.

[Mag-lev carriage]
NEELIX: Be careful up there. If you can't remove it, don't. Sklar! What are you doing?
LILLIAS: Neelix!
HANJUAN: Where's Tuvok?
SKLAR: Mister Tuvok returned to the surface. Get this carriage moving.
LILLIAS: What are you doing!
SKLAR: Now!
LILLIAS: He can't. He's hurt.
SKLAR: Back away. Get up. Get up! oh. We're going to have to figure out how to fly this vessel.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, the asteroid is within visual range.
JANEWAY: Let's see it.
JANEWAY: Ensign?
KIM: There's a large crew compliment. At least two thousand.
CHAKOTAY: They remodulated their shields to fool our sensors. We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
GOTH (screen): The Etanian Order claims this territory. You will withdraw.
JANEWAY: This planet belongs to the Nezu. They have five colonies here.
GOTH (screen): You are not Nezu.
JANEWAY: I'm a friend of theirs. Kathryn Janeway. And I'm not going anywhere until you've lowered your weapons.
GOTH (screen): You would be willing to die for them? A loyal friend, and a foolish one.
CHAKOTAY: They'll be here in under ten minutes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Battle stations.

[Mag-lev carriage]
SKLAR: Why haven't we started?
LILLIAS: If we don't get moving soon the tether couplings will give out and they'll snap. We'll lose mag-lev cohesion.
SKLAR: Then get us moving.
LILLIAS: I can't. I don't know how.
SKLAR: There's the accelerator control. Try it.
LILLIAS: It's too dangerous. We've got to secure the tether first.
SKLAR: Right, you. Go outside and check the couplings. Make sure they haven't been damaged.
HANJUAN: Not me. Besides I wouldn't know where to look.
LILLIAS: The only person who knows how to pilot this ship is Neelix.
SKLAR: It can't be that complicated. Keep trying.
LILLIAS: I'm doing my best.
SKLAR: Come on, come on.
NEELIX: I'm glad you're all right.
TUVOK: Fortunately I was able to grab hold of an induction coil and climb to safety. Thank you, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: What?
TUVOK: I said thank you, for opening the door.
NEELIX: Don't mention it.
TUVOK: I believe we know now who killed Doctor Vatm.
HANJUAN: But why did he kill him?
TUVOK: The data storage device contains tactical information about an alien starship. Weapons, warp drive, shield modulations. Apparently Sklar did not want us to find it. You have an occipital concussion. I'm afraid my understanding of Talaxian physiology is limited. I cannot treat you.
LILLIAS: I don't know how to do this. We're going to lose cohesion any minute know.
TUVOK: Neelix, we need you.
NEELIX: I don't think I can do it.
TUVOK: You must.
NEELIX: I can barely keep my eyes open.
TUVOK: Do it for Alixia. She would be proud of you.
NEELIX: I'm glad to see your interpersonal skills are improving. You're learning how to motivate people.
NEELIX: Speed, forty five kilometers per hour.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: The ship is within range. They're charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Full power to the shields. Ready phasers.
KIM: Shields down to eighty five percent.
JANEWAY: Return fire.
CHAKOTAY: No effect. We can't penetrate their shields.

[Mag-lev carriage]
NEELIX: Hang on! We're breaking through the ionosphere. Engaging induction dampers. We did it. We made it!
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway here. Are you all right, Lieutenant?
TUVOK: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We're a little busy right now. Prepare to beam aboard.

[Bridge]
KIM: Shields down to twenty three percent. Structural integrity is failing.
TUVOK: Captain, this data device contains tactical information about the enemy vessel, including their shield modulation.
JANEWAY: Adjust our phasers to match. Target their primary reactor.
TUVOK: Ready.
JANEWAY: Fire at will.
TUVOK: Direct hit. Their reactor is offline.
CHAKOTAY: They're remodulating their shields.
JANEWAY: Target their weapons array. Fire!
TUVOK: Their weapons have been destroyed.
CHAKOTAY: They're retreating, Captain.
AMBASSADOR: What happened to you down there? Where's Sklar?
NEELIX: Mister Sklar returned to the surface.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: I've just come from a staff briefing. The people who attacked your colonies, they call themselves the Etanian Order. Apparently they have a unique way of invading other worlds. First they create what appears to be a natural disaster, in your case an asteroid bombardment. Once the population has evacuated, they arrive and stake their claim.
LILLIAS: But they didn't expect Voyager to intervene, so they arrived before our colonies had been evacuated
NEELIX: Exactly.
LILLIAS: What about Doctor Vatm?
NEELIX: From what we could tell, Doctor Vatm found out about the Etanian Order and was secretly collecting information about their starship technology. He also knew that one of your colonists was a traitor, helping the Etanians, feeding your government false information about the asteroids. But he didn't know that it was Sklar. He didn't know who to trust.
LILLIAS: So that's why he tried to hide the data storage device on the roof. The damage to our world could have been much worse. Thank you.
TUVOK: I have just received word from the Ambassador. Your sister Halla has been found.
NEELIX: Tell her I said hello.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, I thought you should know that I have submitted my mission report to the Captain. I've given you a special commendation for your endurance and bravery.
NEELIX: I'm honored.
TUVOK: Your instincts were correct. However, one day your intuition will fail, and you will finally understand that logic is primary above all else. Instinct is simply another term for serendipity.
NEELIX: And one day, Mister Vulcan, I'll get you to trust your gut.
TUVOK: That is doubtful.
NEELIX: We'll see.
TUVOK: Your attempts have yet to succeed.
NEELIX: You always have to get in that last word, don't you.
TUVOK: I'm simply responding to your erroneous statement.
NEELIX: Something tells me you just hate to lose an argument.
TUVOK: Losing is irrelevant.
NEELIX: See what I mean?
TUVOK: No, I do not.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Let's mark the coordinates of that trinary star. It'll be a good reference point for this sector.
KIM: Didn't we already pass a trinary system like this?
CHAKOTAY: Not that I remember. Why?
KIM: It just seems familiar.
TUVOK: Perhaps you're experiencing a paradoxical state-dependant associated phenomenon.
JANEWAY: Deja-vu.
KIM: Yeah, I guess so.
TUVOK: Captain, there is a ship approaching, bearing two one five mark eight.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TUVOK: Their shields are down and their weapon systems are unpowered.
KIM: They're hailing us.
ALBEN (screen): My respects to you. I'm Alben, Captain of the Narada.
JANEWAY: Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager.
ALBEN (screen): I thought I was familiar with every type of ship in this sector, but I've never seen anything like yours before.
JANEWAY: We're not from around here.
ALBEN (screen): In that case, let me welcome you to Nasari territory.
KIM: That ship's going to fire!
CHAKOTAY: What?
KIM: Captain, we've got to defend ourselves.
TUVOK: I am detecting no threat. Tactical control has been moved to the Ops station. Our weapons systems are charging.
KIM: Raising shields and firing phasers.
TUVOK: Direct hit. They are returning fire.
JANEWAY: Red alert!
JANEWAY: Hail them. We've got to put a stop to this.
KIM: Captain, I had to act quickly.
JANEWAY: You will explain yourself, Mister Kim, but right now you're relieved. Commander, you're at Ops.
TUVOK: They are not responding to hails.

[Engineering]
TORRES: There's pressure building up in plasma conduit G six. Ashmore, open up the emergency vent. I'll try to reroute the plasma flow.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Shields are down to seventy percent.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here.
CHAKOTAY: Warp engines are down.
TUVOK: They are in pursuit.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering, what's the status of the warp drive?

[Engineering]
TORRES: The plasma injectors are offline, Captain. We're working on them now.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: A plasma conduit just blew in Engineering. Propulsion systems are down. They're reporting casualties.
JANEWAY: Target their weapons array and fire.
TUVOK: They've suffered damage to their weapon systems and shield emitters. They are moving away.
JANEWAY: I want to know exactly what you thought you were doing.
KIM: Their weapons were charging. They were about to fire at us. We could have been destroyed.
TUVOK: Sensor logs indicate that their weapon systems were not powered.
KIM: Then they must have fooled our sensors somehow. I detected a tetryon surge coming from their ship.
TUVOK: There are many sources of increased tetryon emissions. It may have been an irregularity in their warp field.
KIM: No! It was their weapons. That whole welcome to Nasari territory was a trick.
CHAKOTAY: How could you know that?
KIM: I can't explain that. I just knew. I was only trying to protect the ship.
JANEWAY: I trust your intentions, Ensign, but your actions are going to need a little more justification. I want you to analyze the sensor logs, and see if there's any basis for Mister Kim's hunch.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: In the meantime I'm suspending you from duty. Go to Sickbay. Let the Doctor have a look at that cut.

[Sickbay]
KES: Still no respiration. Her blood pressure's ninety over forty and dropping.
EMH: She has second degree burns on her lungs. I'll need to do a pulmonary regeneration.
KES: Her neural tissues are starting to degenerate.
EMH: Oxygen deprivation. We've got to get her breathing. Try ten milligrams pulmazine.
KES: No effect.
EMH: Twenty milligrams.
KIM: Is she going to be all right?
EMH: Yes. Another patient snatched from the jaws of death.
KES: Let me take care of that.
KIM: B'Elanna almost got killed. It's my fault.
KES: What do you mean?
KIM: I started that fight. I thought I was doing the right thing. For a moment I was absolutely sure.
KES: And now you're not?
KIM: It's fading. What I did, and how I felt. It doesn't make any sense. And it could have been worse. What if they'd been more powerful than we were? I could have gotten everyone killed.
KES: But none of that happened. B'Elanna got hurt, but she'll recover. Harry, you can't undo what's been done.
KIM: You're right. Thanks.

[Kim's dream]
KIM: Raising shields and firing phasers. I can't explain it. I just knew. I never wanted you to get hurt.
TORRES: That's supposed to make me feel better?
KIM: I'm sorry.
KIM'S MOTHER: Harry, I'm here. Don't worry, you'll feel better soon. I can make some soup for you, would you like that? I won't go away anywhere as long as you need me. We raised you to be a responsible boy.
KIM: I try to be.
KIM'S MOTHER: I'm suspending you from duty.
KIM: Mom!

[Sickbay]
EMH: Well, the good news is I won't have to quarantine you. There's no sign of an infectious agent anywhere in your body.
KIM: And the bad news?
EMH: If I don't find the cause of this rash, it will be difficult to treat.
KIM: Last night I had a dream about being sick with the Mendakan pox when I was nine. Do you think this could be a recurrence?
EMH: I've never considered dreams as a diagnostic tool before. Your unconscious mind sensed these developing symptoms and tried to provide an explanation? Such recurrences of this particular illness are rare, but I will consider the possibility. Hmm.
KIM: What?
EMH: In addition to your visible symptoms, your blood chemistry has been slightly altered.
KIM: Is that serious?
EMH: No, but it's not consistent with the symptoms of the Mendakan pox.
KIM: Doctor, you don't think there could be any psychological effects from this disease, do you?
EMH: Such as?
KIM: I've been having this strange deja-vu feeling. Then yesterday on the Bridge I had this sudden instinct, and I acted on it by firing without orders.
EMH: I'd certainly call that atypical behavior. Your scans haven't shown any neurological abnormalities, but I will run a closer analysis.
KES: Doctor, she's regaining consciousness.
EMH: Good morning, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Morning? What am I doing here?
KES: There was an accident in Engineering. A plasma conduit exploded.
EMH: I've treated you for second and third degree burns and several broken ribs. I expect you'll make a full recovery
TORRES: Ow!
EMH: after you've spent at least one more day in Sickbay.
TORRES: This time Doctor, I'm not going to argue with you. Harry, what happened to your face?
KIM: We're still trying to figure that out.
TORRES: It's kind of cute. Makes you look like a speckled targ.
KIM: B'Elanna, I'm really sorry you got hurt.
TORRES: Hey, it's all part of the adventure of space travel, right?
KIM: I know, but, er
TORRES: What. What is it?
KIM: Never mind. I'm glad you're going to be all right.
TORRES: Thanks.
EMH: I'm afraid I'm going to have to cut visiting hour short. Ensign, you can go. I'll contact you with the results of my analysis.
KIM: Take care of yourself.
TORRES: See you later, Spot.

[Ready room]
KIM: Captain, I accept full responsibility for my mistake. I was completely out of line, even if I believed that other ship was charging weapons, which they probably weren't.
JANEWAY: Harry, they were charging weapons.
KIM: I was right.
JANEWAY: Tuvok has confirmed that the tetryon surge matched the energy signature of that particulate beam they shot at us. They would have taken us completely by surprise.
KIM: As soon as I saw their ship, I felt this sudden suspicion and loathing. I knew we were in trouble.
JANEWAY: Which brings us back to the larger question.
KIM: How did I know? I really wish I could tell you, Captain, but for the past few days this area of space has seemed more and more familiar to me. If I didn't know it was impossible, I'd swear I've been here before.
JANEWAY: We'll have to consider every possible explanation.
KIM: Oh, believe me, I have been. Space-time anomalies, alien telepathy, alternate realities. The list gets weirder as it goes on.
JANEWAY: Then there's your sudden illness, which may not be a coincidence.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to Janeway. There are three ships approaching of the same configuration as the Nasari vessel.
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: They'll intercept in thirty six minutes.
JANEWAY: Can we outrun them?
CHAKOTAY: I doubt it. Engineering's still working on repairs. We could manage warp three at best.
KIM: Let me see a star chart of this region. Head for this system. I think we can make it.
JANEWAY: Is this another hunch, Ensign?
KIM: We'll be safe there, I'm sure of it.
JANEWAY: Tactical status.
TUVOK: The aft shield emitter is offline, phasers are operational, but torpedo launchers are not. I strongly advise against a confrontation.
JANEWAY: Follow Harry's course. Speed, as fast as we can go.
TUVOK: The Nasari vessels will overtake us in two minutes.
CHAKOTAY: We're coming up on that star system. We'll pass it if we stay at warp.
JANEWAY: Slow to impulse. We're making our stand here.
CHAKOTAY: They'll enter weapons range in a few seconds.
KIM: Taresia.
JANEWAY: What does that mean? Do you know this place?
KIM: Yes. It was in my dream.
TUVOK: There is another ship approaching from the third planet.
CHAKOTAY: Is it Nasari?
TUVOK: No, but they're on an intercept course and their weapons are fully powered.
JANEWAY: Prepare for evasive maneuvers.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
KIM: We'll be all right.
TUVOK: The unidentified vessel has disabled all the Nasari ships. They are retreating.
CHAKOTAY: What's your next trick, Harry. Pull a shuttlecraft out of a hat?
JANEWAY: Open a channel to that ship.
KIM: They're already hailing us.
LYRIS (screen): Alien vessel, this is the Taresian starship. There you are! Our sensors detected you aboard your ship. I'm glad to see you're safe.
KIM: Do you know me?
LYRIS (screen): In a way. I know you are one of my people.
KIM: What?
LYRIS (screen): You're Taresian. Welcome home.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log 50732.4. The Taresians have escorted us back to their homeworld so we can continue to investigate their claim that Ensign Kim is a member of their race.

[Taresia]
LYRIS: Welcome. We're so glad to have you here. This is a day of celebration. Another Taresian has returned.
ELIANN: Welcome.
MALIA: You're home now, Harry.
KIM: Er, wait a minute. I still don't understand how this is possible.
JANEWAY: We'd like to ask some questions before we start celebrating.
LYRIS: Of course.
KIM: Our Doctor has found some genetic fragments in my DNA which could be part of an alien genetic structure.
LYRIS: Yes, those are part of your Taresian genes. They're becoming active. We'd be happy to provide your Doctor with some DNA samples for comparison.
KIM: What I want to know is how I could have gotten them.
LYRIS: You were conceived here, on this world. While you were still an embryo, you were placed in stasis and taken to Earth to be implanted in the womb of an Earth woman.
KIM: My mother. What did you do to her?
LYRIS: She would have been completely unaware of the procedure. After the implantation process, the child begins to incorporate some DNA from the surrogate parent. You developed physically as a human, so she would have thought you were her natural child.
KIM: But you're saying I'm not.
TAYMON: We understand how you feel. Everyone here was born on other worlds. We all found our way back home like you, and discovered we're not quite who we thought we were.
RINNA: Harry, maybe you'd like to sit down.
ELIANN: Why don't you go get him something to drink?
TUVOK: All of your children are born to alien parents?
LYRIS: Yes, and when they return, each child brings an infusion of new genetic material as well as of first hand experience about another culture.
JANEWAY: But Harry wasn't trying to return here. We came to the Delta Quadrant by accident.
LYRIS: His DNA was encoded with certain instincts, including the desire to explore space. Your accident may have brought him here faster, but he always would have been driven to find his way back. You are the first to return from such a great distance.
PARIS: Harry.
KIM: That's how Taresians say thank you, isn't it? But how could I know so much about a place I've never been?
LYRIS: It's been encoded into your Taresian genes. As you've gotten closer to home and seen familiar sights, your dormant genetic memory has been reawakened.
RINNA: You'll remember more about us as you spend time here.
ELIANN: I know it all seems strange now, but you are one of us, Harry. Can't you feel it?
KIM: Yes, I can.
ELIANN: Then stay with us a while and celebrate. Come, have something to eat.
PARIS: Is this the standard welcome home reception?
TAYMON: For males it is. They're very rare. Our population is ninety percent female.
PARIS: Really?
JANEWAY: I want to thank you again for your help in combating the Nasari. Do you have any idea why they tried to attack us?
LYRIS: They probably detected a Taresian aboard your ship as we did. For the Nasari, that's reason enough to destroy you.
TUVOK: Are your people at war?
LYRIS: We have no interest in fighting with them, but they seem determined to destroy us. Our defense capabilities prevent them from attacking directly, but they do everything in their power to stop our people from returning home.
TUVOK: I see. That might explain Mister Kim's instinctively hostile reaction to them.
LYRIS: It's a defense mechanism we've programmed into all our children.
JANEWAY: Are the Nasari likely to attack us again when we leave your space.
LYRIS: I think eventually they'll tire of waiting for you to come out. In the meantime, I'd advise you to simply stay here for a while.
KIM: These are words.
RINNA: Can you read them?
KIM: Almost.
ELIANN: Our written language is very complicated. I can teach it to you if you're interested.
PARIS: Ah, that looks good. What is it?
MALIA: Spiced hatana. I prepared it myself. Harry, try some.
KIM: I'd like to find out if I have any relatives here. Maybe talk to my biological parents.
ELIANN: I'm afraid none of us get the chance to meet our fathers. They're the ones who take the embryos to other worlds. Your father must have left here a very long time ago to make it all the way to the Alpha Quadrant.
TUVOK: Ensign, we're transporting back to the ship.
KIM: I'd like to stay for a while. I still have a lot of questions.
JANEWAY: Of course, Harry. Contact us when you're ready.
PARIS: We'll see you later.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: It's a positive match. These genetic fragments within Ensign Kim's DNA are clearly Taresian.
JANEWAY: Why haven't they shown up in his medical scans before?
EMH: I went back and checked his scans carefully. These fragments have apparently been disguising themselves as the recessive elements which normally within all DNA, but over the past few days they've become increasingly dominant over his human genes.
TUVOK: And they've provided him with new knowledge?
EMH: Yes, by forming neural connections in his brain. All humanoid babies are born with certain instinctive knowledge. How to recognize the shape of a face, how to hold their breath underwater. It all comes from their genes.
JANEWAY: The Taresians must have found a way to manipulate genetic material to implant very specific knowledge into their children.
EMH: It's scientifically plausible, but quite a feat of genetic engineering.
JANEWAY: So what the Taresians have been telling us appears to be true. Harry is one of their people.
EMH: And he's becoming more like them every day, both physically and neurologically.
JANEWAY: I wonder how that's going to influence him when Voyager's ready to leave? Of course, when that might happen is another question entirely. Are the Nasari still out there?

[Sickbay]
TUVOK: All three ships are holding position just outside the Taresian system.
JANEWAY: Even if we can wait them out, we'd only be postponing another conflict. I'd much rather find a way to convince them we're not their enemies.
TUVOK: Apparently the Nasari only consider Ensign Kim their enemy. Perhaps they would be more receptive to diplomacy if he were not aboard.
JANEWAY: Contact Harry. Let him know we'll be leaving orbit. With any luck, we'll be back in a few hours with this matter resolved.

[Taresia]
TAYMON: I joined the merchant fleet so I could get into space, because I wanted to explore every quarter of the galaxy.
KIM: Like me with Starfleet. All my life, that's all I ever wanted to do. Now I guess I know why. Strange to think that some alien DNA fragments have been controlling my life.
TAYMON: Not controlling. Influencing, yes. You probably inherited some Taresian traits like a talent for math or music.
KIM: Yes, I always wondered why I loved music so much when my parents, my human parents, were practically tone deaf.
KIM: Wait, wait a minute. What is that?
RINNA: Something to make you feel good.
TAYMON: It's just a mild mood enhancer. No side effects. You'll like it.
KIM: I think I'll pass, thanks.
TAYMON: This is Malia. She's going to be my first wife.
KIM: First?
TAYMON: Ah ha.
KIM: And you're already planning on a second?
MALIA: And a third. We'll all be joined with Taymon tonight. What do humans call it when a man and women are joined?
KIM: It's called marriage, but it's usually one woman with one man.
MALIA: How unusual. I hope you come to our ceremony.
KIM: I wouldn't miss it.
TAYMON: Don't be afraid to indulge yourself, Harry. Everybody here wants you to be happy. You're important to us.
KIM: That's what my human parents used to say to me. How special I was. They'd been trying to have a baby for years until I came along. They called me their miracle child.
TAYMON: They were right.
KIM: They spoiled me rotten, making sacrifices so they could give me everything I wanted.
TAYMON: Sounds like you were pretty lucky. They loved you.
KIM: But I never felt like I deserved that kind of devotion. I didn't see what was so special about me. I used to imagine that I had these hidden powers. I'd grow up to be stronger than a Klingon or able to read people's minds. Anything to make me more than just an average kid.
TAYMON: Turns out your parents were right about you. You have been special all of your life. Feels pretty good, doesn't it?
KIM: Yeah, it does.
ELIANN: Let me relax your muscles for you.
KIM: That would be great.
TAYMON: I think you're going to learn to like it here, Harry.
KIM: I already like it.
ELIANN: Enough to stay?
KIM: I don't know about that. I'm happy where I am on Voyager.
ELIANN: You could be happy here, too.
TAYMON: It's nothing you have to decide right now. Just enjoy yourself while you're here.
ELIANN: This uniform seems so restrictive. Why don't you let me find you something more comfortable?
KIM: Thanks. I mean

[Bridge]
ALBEN (screen): I agree with you completely, Captain. There's no reason for further hostility between us.
JANEWAY: I'm glad to hear it, and I hope you'll still feel that way when Ensign Kim is back on board.
ALBEN (screen): I doubt we'll face that problem. Your crewmember won't be returning to you.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
ALBEN (screen): No one who comes home to Taresia ever leaves again. There are rumors about those people.
JANEWAY: I'm not interested in hearsay. Are there any facts you can give me?
ALBEN (screen): I fire on any Taresian I see. If you take your crewmember back on board, I will attack your ship. My best advice to you is to forget him and be on your way.
JANEWAY: I don't know, but I'll feel better when we've got Harry back. Set a course back to the planet.
TUVOK: Captain, sensors indicate a high density polaron grid surrounding the planet.
JANEWAY: Polaron grid? It wasn't here before.
TUVOK: A network of satellites was activated to generate it.
CHAKOTAY: Can we get through the grid?
TUVOK: Unlikely. The polaric density is too high.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
TUVOK: Our communications are being blocked.
CHAKOTAY: I guess we're not welcome anymore.

[Taresia]
ELIANN: Don't worry, you'll remember everything you need to know about the ceremony once it begins.
TAYMON: Amal ulat. Let us be joined.
MALIA: The joining is complete.
KIM: Why did they tie him like that?
ELIANN: It's tradition. It symbolizes binding their lives together, no longer looking for anyone else. Do you find it exciting?
KIM: I guess I hadn't really thought of it that way.
RINNA: You are going to stay for the celebration, aren't you?
KIM: Actually, I should check in with Voyager. They'll be back by now. Kim to Voyager. This is Ensign Kim calling Voyager, do you read?
LYRIS: Harry, I'm glad you could be here for this.
KIM: It's been interesting. I was wondering if there's been any word from Voyager.
LYRIS: Not that I know of. They probably haven't returned yet.
KIM: It's been a long time. I hope they didn't run into trouble with the Nasari.
LYRIS: Try not to worry. Your Captain may need some time to convince those people to see reason.
KIM: Maybe so.
LYRIS: Come, join the celebration while you wait. And of course you're welcome to stay the night.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: We've been able to poke some holes in the tachyon grid but they're too small to squeeze Voyager through.
JANEWAY: Could a shuttle make it?
CHAKOTAY: I doubt it. And even if one could, there's another problem. A Taresian ship is patrolling the other side of the grid.

[Doctor's office]
JANEWAY: And we saw what they can do.
EMH: Ah, Captain. When you raised some concerns regarding the Taresians, I began questioning their story about Ensign Kim's birth.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you'd confirmed that he has Taresian DNA.
EMH: I did, and he does. At least, he does now. But when I checked his previous microcellular scans, I found no traces of the Taresian genetic fragments. I can only conclude that he wasn't born with them.
CHAKOTAY: Their whole story about embryo implantation was a lie. He's human.
EMH: Yes, although maybe not for long. The alien DNA is continuing to alter his genetic structure. Within a few days he'll be indistinguishable from a native Taresian.
JANEWAY: Do you have any idea how this new DNA could have gotten into his cells?
EMH: The most likely transfer method would be a retrovirus. He was probably exposed during an away mission.
CHAKOTAY: Wouldn't the biofilters pick up the virus and eliminate it?
EMH: They may very well have, but once the virus transferred the DNA into his cells, killing the messenger wouldn't have helped.
JANEWAY: Is there any way to determine exactly when he was infected?
EMH: Indeed there is. The transporter buffer performs it's own version of a microcellular scan every time someone uses it. I reviewed the logs and found the first appearance of the alien genes in his molecular pattern on stardate 50698.
CHAKOTAY: Our away mission to that planet where we found the vorillium. Harry was with us, and he was separated from the group for a while.
EMH: He might have been infected by something he ate or drank, even something he touched.
JANEWAY: So Harry gets infused with alien DNA which gives him the instinctive urge to come here. Then the Taresians tell him this elaborate story to make him believe he was one of them. Why?
CHAKOTAY: Don't forget that welcoming committee on the planet. It sounds as if they're giving him every incentive to want to stay on Taresia.
JANEWAY: And by keeping us away, they're making the decision for him.

[Kim's room]
ELIANN: Here you are. I hope you'll be comfortable here. Is there anything else that I can get for you?
KIM: No, I'll be fine, thanks. Goodnight.
ELIANN: Get into bed.
KIM: You're going to tuck me in?
ELIANN: Tuck you in?
KIM: It's a human custom. Parents tuck their children into bed, tell them a story or sing a lullaby to them to help them get to sleep.
ELIANN: That's sweet. Lie back and relax. Lekaria san. Do you understand?
KIM: Pleasant dreams.
ELIANN: Now close your eyes.
KIM: Mmm, that smells good.
ELIANN: It's the essence of rikka flowers, it's very soothing. Lekaria san. Goodnight, Harry.

[Kim's dream]
LYRIS (voiceover): You're Taresian. Welcome home.
ELIANN: I think you'll like it here, Harry.
CHAKOTAY: We've been lucky to have you, Harry.
JANEWAY: You really have been special all your life.
KIM'S MOTHER: You know where your real home is, Harry.
ELIANN: I think you'll like it here, Harry. Stay with me.

[Kim's room]
ELIANN: It's all right, it's all right. You were dreaming.
KIM: What are you doing here?
ELIANN: We just want to help you relax and enjoy yourself.
KIM: Look, I appreciate the offer, but I'd really rather be alone.
ELIANN: I don't believe that. I think you've been spending too many nights alone, Harry.
RINNA: You've got to stop holding yourself back. I know you have the same natural desires as any Taresian. Now you're free to act on them.
ELIANN: You can't fight genetics.
KIM: I can try.
ELIANN: I want you to choose me, Harry.
RINNA: Choose both of us, then you'll only have to find one more wife.
KIM: I'm not joining with you or with anybody.
ELIANN: But that's the reason why you were drawn back home, Harry. To have children. Listen to your instincts.
KIM: No. Like I told you before, I'm going back to Voyager.
RINNA: You could never be as valuable to them as you are to us. We need you.
ELIANN: You have a responsibility to your people to pass on your genes to the next generation. If there's anything your Taresian genes have given you, it's a sense of duty and loyalty.
KIM: My loyalty is to my crew and my family back home.
ELIANN: You don't belong with them anymore. This is who you are. One of us. Your place is here.
RINNA: We'll make you glad you stayed. Think of Taymon, how happy he's been. Let yourself be happy.
ELIANN: It's the right choice, Harry. This is the life you were always meant to have.
KIM: Maybe this life wouldn't be so terrible.
RINNA: It will be wonderful. You'll have everything you ever wanted, and a place of honor among your people.
ELIANN: You'll never be alone again, Harry. We'll make sure of that.
KIM: Three wives. I've got to think about my choice.
ELIANN: I know you're attracted to me. There's been a connection between us since the moment you got here.
KIM: You're right. I felt it too. I'm definitely considering you as one of my wives.
ELIANN: What are you doing?
KIM: Well, it's like you said before. This could be exciting. Remember, you both want to make me happy, don't you?
RINNA: This is some kind of trick.
KIM: Sorry about that.

[Outside Taymon's room]
KIM: Taymon, it's Harry. I really need your help.

[Taymon's room]
KIM: Are you in there?
KIM: So this is what I should expect on my honeymoon?
MALIA: It would have been much easier for you if you hadn't seen this.
KIM: You mean easier for you to lead me to the slaughter. What'd you do to Taymon?
MALIA: We must nucleate a large number of cells to collect enough genetic material for conception.
KIM: That's why there are no men here. They don't leave with their embryos in stasis. They're killed.
MALIA: Any father should be willing to sacrifice himself for the sake of his children, for the continuation of his race.
KIM: Was anything you told me true? About Taresians being born on other worlds? About my being one of you?
MALIA: It's true male children are very rare here, and that we seek out new DNA to sustain our race. We need males of other species, like you, who can be transformed into compatible mates.
KIM: Transformed. That's what these genes are doing to me.
MALIA: You'll be celebrated for your contribution.
KIM: Don't count on it. You're going to take me to a communications terminal where I can contact my ship.
KIM: Stay out of my way!
MALIA: This won't work. You're too important to us. Whatever happens to me, they won't allow you to leave.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: If we hit the grid here, we'll have a few seconds before the patrol ship can move in to intercept us.
JANEWAY: That doesn't give you much time to get a lock on Harry.
CHAKOTAY: Then I'll have to be quick.
JANEWAY: Are the shields ready?
TUVOK: The new configuration is stable.
JANEWAY: Set a course for the target coordinates and engage at full impulse.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: We're disrupting the grid, but we need more speed to overcome the inertial resistance.
PARIS: Increasing power. We're clear.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not picking up Harry's comm. signal. Initiating level one bioscans of the surface.
TUVOK: Captain, the Taresian ship is on an intercept course.
JANEWAY: Battle stations.

[Taresia]
LYRIS: This could have been a joyous occasion. Amal ulat!
KIM: I won't let you do this to me!
LYRIS: Harry, there's nowhere to go.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We've got him.
PARIS: Setting a new course.
TUVOK: The Taresians are in pursuit.
JANEWAY: Return fire.
TUVOK: Aye, sir.
PARIS: Captain, we've another problem. Three Nasari ships coming straight at us.
JANEWAY: Time to intercept?
PARIS: Less than one minute.
JANEWAY: Harry.
KIM: Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Welcome back. We could use your strategic intuition about now.
JANEWAY: I'm counting on the Taresians not to back off from those Nasari ships.
KIM: They won't.
JANEWAY: Good. Let's hope they're more interested in fighting with each other than with us.
PARIS: Five seconds to intercept.
TUVOK: We are no longer being pursued.
JANEWAY: Let's not give them a chance to change their mind.

[Mess hall]
KIM: But Odysseus had been warned that these women, the Sirens, sang a song so beautiful that any man who heard it would be lured to his death.
NEELIX: So how did he get the ship past them?
KIM: He told his crew to cover their ears so they couldn't hear the Siren's song. But he also had them tie him to the mast of the ship so he could listen himself without being led astray as they sailed past.
PARIS: Anyone would have been drawn in by these Taresians. I have never seen so many beautiful women in my life.
KIM: It wasn't just the women. There was also something exciting about having a new identity, and being more than just young Ensign Kim.
NEELIX: Well I for one am glad to have the young Ensign Kim back with us. Although I still say you should have kept some of those spots. I thought they were very distinguished.
PARIS: I don't see what's so bad about being you. You're good at your job, everybody likes you.
KIM: Being likable is fine, but sometimes I wish I could be more, oh, confident with women. More like you.
PARIS: Like me? You might want to reconsider that, Harry. There could be prison time involved. Actually, since I've been on Voyager, I've tried to be more like you.
KIM: That'll be the day.
PARIS: I'm serious. You're my role model. You're reliable, hard working, extremely punctual. Did I mention polite?
KIM: Thanks a lot.
EMH (voiceover): Activate the bio-temporal chamber.

[Sickbay, 2379]
ANDREW: Is she going to be all right?
EMH: Not if you don't all clear out of here and let me do my work.
LINNIS: She's my mother. I'm staying.
EMH: This is a very delicate procedure, and I could use some peace and quiet.
PARIS (voiceover): The Doctor's right. Let him do his work.
LINNIS: All right.
EMH: I wish I'd told you this before, but better late than never. You're the finest friend I've ever had. Prepare to bring the bio-temporal chamber online. We'll begin in approximately five minutes.
ANDREW: Grandma? Are you awake? I brought you a present. Grandma Kes? I finally finished your birthday present. Sorry it's late, but I wanted to get it right.
KES: I don't know you.
ANDREW: What do you mean? I'm Andrew, your grandson.
KES: I don't know you.
ANDREW: Doctor? Doctor Van Gogh?
EMH: What is it?
ANDREW: She doesn't recognize me.
EMH: Kes? How are you feeling?
KES: Where am I? What is this place?
EMH: You're in Sickbay. Do you know who I am?
KES: No. Yes. I've seen you before.
EMH: Do you know my name?
KES: The boy, he called you Doctor Van Gogh.
EMH: That's right.
KES: You said I was your finest friend.
EMH: Well, I'm not sure I've ever said that, exactly, but, that doesn't mean it's not true.
KES: How could I be your friend? I don't know you.
EMH: Tell me what you do remember.
KES: Er, people around me, crowded around me. You, the boy, a young girl. I was in a chamber. A bio-temporal chamber.
EMH: Good.
KES: I was inside it and you told someone to activate it.
EMH: I'm afraid you're confused. I discussed the bio-temporal chamber with you, but we're not ready to put you inside it just yet. Can you recall anything else, besides those people you saw? Anything else about your life?
KES: No.
EMH: Go find the rest of your family.
CHAKOTAY: Whoa, whoa, whoa. What's the big hurry?
ANDREW: I'm sorry, Captain, I have to go.
CHAKOTAY: What was that all about?
EMH: I'm afraid Kes is getting worse, Captain. Her amnesia is near total. Fewer than one percent of her engrams remain intact. It's as if her memory were wiped clean.
CHAKOTAY: Is it some sort of senility?
EMH: Maybe. I've never treated a nine year old Ocampan before. For all I know, it's a perfectly normal part of their aging process.
CHAKOTAY: It's hard to believe that she performed microsurgery on my elbow just a few weeks ago.
EMH: A few weeks ago she was a healthy woman, but this morilogium comes on abruptly and then progresses with a rapidity I've never seen before.
CHAKOTAY: How are you coming along with the bio-temporal chamber?
EMH: As I told you, it's a completely revolutionary procedure. I have no idea if it'll work. Under normal circumstances I'd want to perform extensive tests on the apparatus, but we're losing her too fast. If I don't try it now, it may be too late.
CHAKOTAY: If you really believe it will prolong her life?
EMH: If we're lucky it may buy her another year.
CHAKOTAY: I think you have the family's consent. You should go ahead and do it.
KES: So cold. I'm cold.
EMH: No wonder. Your temperature has dropped to fourteen point eight, almost two degrees below normal.
CHAKOTAY: What does that mean?
EMH: I'm not sure. CHAKOTAY? What?
EMH: Her cells are in a state of bio-temporal flux. I don't understand how that could be happening before I put her in the chamber.
KES: I'm cold.

[Kes's quarters]
ANDREW (voiceover): Look mom, I'm almost finished with Grandma's present.
LINNIS (voiceover): It's wonderful, sweetheart. I'm sure Grandma will think it was well worth the wait.
ANDREW (voiceover): I hope so. I still feel bad for not having it ready in time for her party.
LINNIS: Hello. How was your nap?
KES: Andrew?
ANDREW: Grandma, don't look. You'll spoil the surprise.
LINNIS: Why don't you sit down. I'll get you some tea.
KES: Where am I?
LINNIS: In your quarters.
KES: What quarters?
LINNIS: Aboard Voyager. What's wrong?
KES: I don't know who you are. But you, I know who you are. Tell me what's happening. How did I get here?
LINNIS: Andrew, get your grandfather and father. Tell them to meet us in Sickbay.
KES: Yes, Sickbay. I remember that place. I was just there.
LINNIS: When?
KES: Just a few minutes ago. Doctor Van Gogh asked me some questions. I couldn't remember anything.
LINNIS: You haven't been to Sickbay for over a week, since you stopped working there.
KES: Working? What kind of work?
LINNIS: Don't you remember? You were one of the ship's doctors. I worked there with you.
KES: Who are you?
LINNIS: I'm your daughter, Linnis.

[Corridor]
KES: But I don't remember you.
LINNIS: Do you remember anything at all?
KES: Just people crowded around me. Voices. The Doctor told everyone to leave and then he told someone else to activate the bio-temporal chamber.
LINNIS: He's been working on that. He may have mentioned it to you.
KES: And then I woke up and there was a boy, Andrew, standing over me with a present, calling me Grandma.
LINNIS: Andrew hasn't finished your present yet. You just saw him still working on it in your quarters.
KES: But he was there. The Doctor sent him to get my family, and I was cold and I woke up in that bed in the quarters, and
LINNIS: Maybe you were dreaming.
KES: I don't think so.
LINNIS: Well, none of the things you remember before waking from your nap have happened.
KES: How do you know?
LINNIS: Listen to me, mother. You're confused right now and I'm sure that's very frightening, but you need to trust me. I'm your daughter and I love you. Now please, come with me. Come.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've been expecting this.
LINNIS: The onset of morilogium.
EMH: She's lost more than ninety eight percent of her memory engrams.
KES: Morilogium?
LINNIS: The final phase of the Ocampan lifespan, mother.
KES: Are you saying that I'm dying?
EMH: Not if l can help it.
LINNIS: What do you mean?
PARIS: Kes, it's me, Tom. Your husband.
EMH: Tom, we're losing her.
PARIS: How long?
EMH: If we do nothing, a matter of weeks. But I'm working on something to extend her lifespan. It involves treating her with a bio-temporal field in order to push her cells back to an earlier stage of entropic decay.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: It's highly experimental, but if it works, it might buy her some time.
LINNIS: No. My mother's always accepted that she would only live nine years. If she's reaching the natural end of her life she wouldn't want extraordinary measures taken to extend it. Especially not in the state she's in now.
PARIS: If the Doctor has a way to keep your mother with us, even for one more day, we have to let him try.
LINNIS: We're not talking about a tested medical procedure here, we're talking about a radical experiment.
KIM: Sweetheart, I understand how upsetting this is, but if it were you on that biobed, I'd feel just like Tom does.
KES: Everyone listen to me, please.
ANDREW: Yes, listen to her.
LINNIS: Mother, tell us what you want.
KES: I want to know what's going on here. Maybe the morilogium is causing my amnesia, but that doesn't explain how I seem to suddenly jump from Sickbay to my quarters, or how I remember being in a bio-temporal chamber.
EMH: Kes, it's possible the morilogium is causing you to experience delusions.
KES: No. They're not delusions.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I want you to lie down.
KES: No.
ANDREW: Leave her alone.
KIM: Your grandmother's very sick, son.
ANDREW: Maybe, but she's not delusional. She's the smartest person I know. We should listen to her.
KES: I'm cold.
EMH: Her body temperature has dropped two point seven degrees.

[Mess hall]
ALL: For she's a jolly good fellow, for she's a jolly good fellow, for she's a jolly good fellow, which nobody can deny.
NEELIX: Happy ninth, Kes. Go ahead, make a wish. Well, what are you waiting for? Blow out the candles. It's good to see that old lung is still working, Kessie.
PARIS: Happy birthday, sweetheart.
NEELIX: Well, you know, I haven't made one of these since, well, since I became security officer.
TUVOK: Perhaps you would care to relinquish your commission and return to the scene of your former triumphs.
NEELIX: You keep working on that sense of humor, Commander Vulcan. You'll get it one of these days. Jibelian fudge, your favorite. Some of us ought to be watching our calories, but after all, it is a special occasion.
KES: Andrew.
ANDREW: I'm sorry I don't have a present for you, grandma. I've got an idea for something special I'm going to make, but I've been too busy with school work, I haven't had a chance to start it.
KES: I think it'll be worth the wait. Come and talk to grandma for a minute, will you?
ANDREW: Sure.
KES: I'm going to ask you a few questions and I want you to think very carefully before you answer them, all right?
ANDREW: I always think before I speak. You taught me that.
KES: Where were you before you came to this party?
ANDREW: At my physics lesson in Engineering.
KES: And then you came directly here?
ANDREW: No, I stopped at your quarters to get you. Don't you remember?
EMH: Andrew, stop monopolizing your grandmother's time. There are other people who'd like to wish her happy birthday, you know.
ANDREW: She's all yours, Doctor. Excuse me. That cake looks great.
EMH: It's amazing to think that you weren't even a year old when we first met. Not much older than Andrew.
KES: Doctor, there's something wrong with me.
EMH: What is it?
KES: Promise to hear me out and not assume I'm delusional.
EMH: Why do you think I'd ever make such an assumption?
KES: Promise!
EMH: Of course.
KES: I've lost all but a few of my memories, and the memories I do have don't coincide with anyone else's.
EMH: Can you be more specific?
KES: Well, I was in Sickbay, and you and a woman, my daughter, were arguing about prolonging my life. And then I suddenly appeared in my quarters and then I simply appeared here.
EMH: As far as I know, none of that happened. Is it possible you were dreaming?
KES: No. I was awake, I'm sure of it. But nobody else remembers the things I do.
EMH: I hate to say this, but it's possible these strange experiences you're having are related to the onset of the morilogium.
KES: You talked about that. You wanted to put me in a bio-temporal chamber to stop my aging process.
EMH: How could you possibly know about that?
KES: Because you told me.
EMH: I only came up with the idea for the bio-temporal chamber this morning. I was going to tell you about it today, here at the party, as a sort of birthday surprise.
KES: If that were true, then how could I already know about it.
EMH: I don't know, but we'd better get you to Sickbay and find out.

[Sickbay]
EMH: She appears to have lost more than ninety five percent of her memory engrams.
PARIS: Is that symptomatic of the morilogium?
EMH: I don't know. I have no basis for comparison. No other Ocampans on board.
PARIS: Don't worry, we'll get to the bottom of this.
KES: I do have memories, they just don't coincide with anyone else's. First Andrew gave me a belated birthday present, then he said he was working on the present, and now he just apologized for not starting it yet.
PARIS: It's almost as if you're experiencing events in reverse.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe there's some kind of time paradox at work.
EMH: There is another possibility. Given that Kes has knowledge of a treatment I have not yet devised, it's possible she's developed some sort of precognition.
KES: Are you saying I can see into the future?
PARIS: Well, you've demonstrated some pretty extraordinary mental powers over the years. Telepathy, telekinesis.
EMH: And precognition wouldn't be unprecedented. Some species, including the Yattho of the Beta quadrant, have been known to predict future events with uncanny accuracy.
CHAKOTAY: See if you can confirm this theory about precognition. In the meantime, Tom and I will begin scanning for temporal anomalies.
PARIS: We'll do everything we can to help you.
KES: I'd like to do something to help myself.
CHAKOTAY: What did you have in mind?
KES: Well I seem to have lived quite a full life on this ship. Maybe if I have a look in my medical files, or check other record of my activities, I might be able to fill in some of the blanks.
EMH: Well you may have lost your memories, but you certainly haven't lost your determination.

[Kes's quarters]
PARIS: Hi.
KES: Oh, hello.
PARIS: How's it coming?
KES: I've had a busy life. It's hard to know where to start. How about you?
PARIS: Well, we've tried every kind of temporal scan Harry could think of, but we still haven't been able to find anything to explain what's been happening to you. Your initial physical exam. I remember when you came on board. I had a crush on you right from the beginning. I tried to hide it, but Neelix sensed it and boy, was he ever jealous.
KES: Neelix?
PARIS: You don't remember? You and he were involved for quite a while. One of your prenatal exams. We listened to Linnis' heartbeat. That was quite a day.
KES: What about this. It says I got some kind of radiation poisoning on stardate 50973.
PARIS: That was the beginning of the Year of Hell.
KES: Year of Hell?
PARIS: That's what some of us call it now. We were under virtually constant attack by a race called the Krenim. The ship almost didn't make it. The Doctor was offline for months, and we lost a lot of good people. Captain Janeway, Joe Carey, B'Elanna.
KES: B'Elanna?
PARIS: I keep forgetting that you don't remember any of them. B'Elanna was someone who was very special to me. When she died, I felt like I wanted to die too, but you, you helped me through it.
PARIS: I'm sorry.
KES: No. No, it's my fault. You haven't done anything wrong. It's just
PARIS: You don't remember any of our life together? Well, that's all right. I've got enough feelings for both of us.
KES: Maybe the feelings I had for you will come back.
PARIS: You were asking about the radiation poisoning. A lot of us were exposed. During the first Krenim attack one of the chroniton torpedo fragments leaked radiation into the ship.
KES: Chroniton torpedoes?
PARIS: They were able to penetrate our shields because their torpedoes were in a constant state of temporal flux. Wait a minute. Think we may be onto something. We'd better go talk to the Doctor. Come on.

[Corridor]
KES: If I was infected with these chroniton particles, then there might be a connection to what's happening to me now.
PARIS: Exactly.
KES: Maybe we should try scanning for residual

[Kes's quarters - 2378]
KIM: Say cheese!
LINNIS: I think he's got your nose, Mother.
KIM: So how does it feel to be a grandfather?
PARIS: A lot better than it does to have you for a son-in-law.
KES: What's the date?
PARIS: The date?
KES: Yes, the stardate.
KIM: It's 56947. Why?
KES: Over six months.
LINNIS: Mother, what's going on?
KES: Tom, we have to talk to the Doctor. Come on.

[Doctor's office]
KES: As far as I can tell I've jumped backwards a total of five times so far.
EMH: Is there any discernable pattern to these jumps?
KES: No, they're apparently random. One time it seemed to span for a few weeks, and the last was half a year. Each time I arrive I seem to exist in temporal synch with the rest of you for a while, but before I can make anyone understand what's happening I find myself in am earlier time of my life. And just before it happens I seem to experience a sudden drop in body temperature.
EMH: Hmm. Now this could explain a thing or two.
KES: What is it?
EMH: I'm detecting high level chroniton radiation in your cells.
KES: So I was right. There is a connection.
PARIS: But Kes was inoculated along with the rest of the crew over three years ago.
EMH: Yes. However, everyone was left with trace amounts of the radiation in their bodies. For some reason, those residual chronitons have reactivated in Kes.
PARIS: Why?
KES: The bio-temporal chamber.
EMH: My thinking exactly.
PARIS: Would you two mind explaining?
EMH: It's really quite obvious, Lieutenant. Your wife is traveling backward through time.

[Briefing room]
KES: It's as though I came into existence at the moment of my own death, without any memories. I've been living my life backwards ever since, jumping progressively to earlier moments in my life. accumulating memories and experiences as I go. Your past has become my future.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, any theory about what's causing this?
EMH: In approximately six months, I will apparently expose Kes to some type of bio-temporal field in a highly experimental but nonetheless brilliant attempt to stop her aging process.
TUVOK: And it's this attempt which leads to Kes's current predicament?
EMH: What I will apparently fail to realize is that the bio-temporal field is going to reactivate the dormant chroniton particles in her cells, bringing Kes out of temporal sync with the rest of us.
CHAKOTAY: Is there any way to stop Kes from continuing these jumps?
EMH: Yes. Purge her completely of the chroniton poisoning.
KIM: To do that we'd need to know the precise temporal variance of the specific torpedo which contaminated the ship.
TUVOK: Tactical sensors were not functioning at the time. There is no data regarding the torpedo in question.
PARIS: Let me get one thing straight, Doc. Is it possible if this keeps happening to Kes that she might actually jump back into a time before she knew any of us?
EMH: Worse than that, Mister Paris. It's possible she may eventually jump back to a time before she even existed.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 55836.2. Kes has remained in temporal sync with us for two days now, but since we don't know when she may jump again, we can't afford to rest until we've found some way to help her.

[Medical laboratory]
LINNIS: I'm going to try running a hypothalamic scan. Maybe we can establish a pattern to the drops in your body temperature.
KES: You're very good at this, aren't you.
LINNIS: I had a very good teacher.
KES: Doctor Van Gogh?
LINNIS: You.
KES: I'm sorry. All this must be taking you away from your baby just now. You must be wanting to spend every second with him.
LINNIS: Actually I feel a little awkward around him sometimes. Harry's always singing to him and playing with him, but, well, I seem to be much more comfortable with a molecular scanner than I am with a diaper.
KES: Now, Linnis, I don't think it's
EMH: Kes, I may have found a way to prevent your next jump. I've erected a containment field that may keep you here. It's going to require your confinement in Sickbay.
LINNIS: I'll keep working here.
KES: Linnis, you must be a good mother. I happen to know that Andrew grows up to be a wonderful child.

[Sickbay]
KES: Hello, Tom.
PARIS: I thought maybe you could use some company.
KES: I feel like I'm in a cage. Doctor Van Gogh says
PARIS: Doctor Van Gogh? I thought you settled on Mozart.
EMH: Evidently my interest in the great figures of art and culture will be an ongoing process.
PARIS: Well, Vincent, how about letting me inside this thing?
EMH: I'm afraid that wouldn't be advisable.
PARIS: Okay then, how about another installment of Tom and Kes, the Early Years?
KES: I'd enjoy that.
PARIS: Well, there was our wedding reception. Harry was my best man. He got so nervous when he stood up to give the toast that he spilt champagne all over my dress uniform.
KES: What is it?
PARIS: At the time, I thought that was the happiest day of my life, but every day it just got better and better.
KES: Oh, it means so much to have you here now.
LINNIS: I think I may have found something.
EMH: What is it.
LINNIS: Well, I was studying the effects of the chronitons on other crew members and I
PARIS: What's that?
EMH: Kes' temperature has dropped one point nine degrees. Linnis, monitor the containment field. I'm going to try to elevate her temperature.
EMH: Her temperature's still dropping.
LINNIS: We're losing containment.
EMH: Increase the field amplitude.
PARIS: Kes?
LINNIS: It's not working.
EMH: We're losing her. Set field polarization to maximum.
PARIS: Do something!

[Shuttlecraft - 2374]
PARIS: The sac is opening.
KES: What's happening?
PARIS: What do you mean, what's happening? You're having a baby. Hold still.
KES: Where am I?
PARIS: Exactly where I told you not to be, on a shuttlecraft.
KES: I have to see the Doctor.
PARIS: Well, that'd be nice if he were still around. I told you you were in no condition to come on a supply mission, but did you listen to me? I can see the toes, it's coming. Yes! It's a girl! Ah, she's beautiful.
KES: Yes, she is.
PARIS: Yes, just like her mother.
KES: Tom, listen.
PARIS: I love you, Kes.
KES: We need to talk.
PARIS: Just a minute.
KES: What is it?
PARIS: Voyager's under attack.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Congratulations.
PARIS: Thanks, but it looks like the celebration'll have to wait.
NEELIX: I'll get Kes and the baby to the Mess hall. Captain Chakotay wants you to go to the weapons array and modulate the targeting scanners to a parametric frequency. He's going to try to knock out the chroniton torpedo launchers before they're fired.
KES: Chroniton torpedoes. The Year of Hell.
PARIS: What?
KES: You told me that the crew referred to this time as the Year of Hell.
PARIS: When did I tell you that?
KES: It's a long story.
PARIS: You'll have to tell me later. I've got to get to the weapons array. Neelix, get her to lie down, will you?
KES: Neelix, listen very carefully. There's something very important I have to tell you.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: Neelix told us what's been happening to you, Kes. How are you holding up?
KES: We're both fine.
CHAKOTAY: That's quite a story.
KES: Just before the last jump we were close to a solution. The Doctor was working on
PARIS: The Doctor?
CHAKOTAY: Well it's good to know we'll eventually get him back online.
PARIS: Eventually may be too late. We've got to help Kes now.
KES: We discovered that what's been happening to me is related to the chroniton poisoning I suffered during a Krenim attack. We have to determine the exact temporal variance of the torpedo, so that
CHAKOTAY: The main computer's been offline for weeks. Even if the sensor logs contain that information, we can't access them.
KES: You have to put me in the bio-temporal containment field. I know it didn't work last time, but with a few modifications
CHAKOTAY: We've only got life support on three out of fourteen decks, and we've had to divert all remaining power to knock out the Krenim's torpedo launchers. We don't even have a Sickbay anymore, much less the resources to create a bio-containment field. I'm sorry.
PARIS: We've got to do something to help her.
CHAKOTAY: I'm open to suggestions.
KES: I'm cold.
PARIS: I'll get you a blanket.
KES: No, you don't understand, I'm about, I'm about

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]
KES: Tom.
PARIS: Hey, Kes, some party, huh?
KES: I have to talk to you.
TORRES: Tom, I'm sorry I'm late.
KES: You must be B'Elanna.
TORRES: Well, the last time I checked.
PARIS: Something wrong?
KES: Actually, there is something wrong.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Red alert. All hands to battle stations.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Tuvok, fire phasers.
TUVOK: Acknowledged.
CHAKOTAY: Who the hell are they?
KES: They're called the Krenim.
JANEWAY: How do you know that?
KES: Captain Janeway?
JANEWAY: What is it, Kes? What do you know about them?
TUVOK: Shields down to thirty nine percent, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: I don't understand how these torpedoes are ripping right through our shields.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers, Mister Paris. B'Elanna, can we reroute power to the forward shields?
TORRES: Already trying.
KES: Captain, these torpedoes are chroniton based. They're passing through our shields because they're in a state of temporal flux.
KES: They're dead.
PARIS: B'Elanna!
KIM: Hull breach on deck seven. We're losing life support.
CHAKOTAY: Evacuate the deck. Tom, I need you at the conn.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
TUVOK: Commander, they're arming their torpedo launchers again. We cannot sustain another direct hit.
CHAKOTAY: Kes, you seem to know something about these weapons. Do you have any idea how we can stop them?
KES: I'm not sure, but I think it has something to do with remodulating the targeting scanners.
KIM: That could work. If we remodulate the scanners to a parametric frequency we might be able to destroy the torpedo launchers before they fire.
CHAKOTAY: Mister Tuvok, you heard the man. Tom, bring us about.
TUVOK: Ready, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Fire!

[Mess hall]
CHAKOTAY: Do you have a casualty report?
KIM: Including Captain Janeway and B'Elanna, we lost eleven people.
CHAKOTAY: What about the ship?
KIM: Starboard shield generators and warp drive are offline, and power is down on decks four through twelve.
CHAKOTAY: Make deck five your priority. We've got to get Sickbay up and running again.
KIM: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Kes, as far as what you say is happening to you
KES: I understand my condition can't be a priority now.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, I'm going to need you to stay here and treat these people. When this is over, we're all going to have a lot of grieving to do.
KES: How are you doing? Tom, I know it doesn't seem possible now, but you're going to be all right.
PARIS: I wish I could believe you.
KES: You can.
PARIS: Thanks.
NEELIX: Kes, we've got radiation leakage coming from one of the Krenim torpedo fragments. People are starting to complain of nausea.
KES: Chroniton radiation. This is it. I'm infected. Where's the radiation coming from?
NEELIX: It's lodged in a Jefferies tube on deck eleven, section two.
KES: I've got to get down there.
NEELIX: You can't. The entire deck is sealed off.
KES: I have to find the exact temporal variance of that torpedo.
NEELIX: You can't go near that thing. You'll be burnt to a crisp.
KES: I know what I'm doing. You stay here and help Tom, all right?
NEELIX: Yes, but

[Sickbay - 2373]
EMH: Kes, how are you coming with those analgesic compounds?
KES: Doctor, you've lost your hair.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
KES: It's a long story. The important thing is, the temporal variance of the chroniton torpedo was one point four seven microseconds.

[Briefing room]
KES: As far as I can determine, I've jumped a total of six years into my past.
TUVOK: Do you have any theory as to the cause of these jumps?
EMH: According to Kes, she and the rest of the crew will be infected by chroniton radiation in approximately eleven months from now. Everyone will be inoculated and the effects will appear to vanish. However, some five years later, when I attempt an experimental and, I might add, ingenious procedure to extend her lifespan, the bio-temporal field I expose her to will trigger dormant chroniton particles, taking Kes out of temporal sync and causing her to begin her backward journey through time.
JANEWAY: In all my years in Starfleet I've never come across a phenomenon quite like this.
EMH: Kes has been able to provide us with the precise temporal variance of the torpedo which infected her.
TORRES: Since Kes is moving backward in time, she's already been infected by the radiation poisoning. If we can set up a bio-temporal chamber and expose her to a precisely modulated field of anti-chroniton particles, we feel this may purge her system and bring her back into temporal sync with there rest of us.
JANEWAY: Well, we'd better get moving. For all we know, Kes's next jump will take her back to a time when we're not here to help her.
KES: Captain, there's something else I have to tell you. In about six months you're going to enter a region of space controlled by a race called the Krenim. You must avoid them at all costs.
JANEWAY: Tell me more.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: I'm ready to bring the chamber online.
JANEWAY: Synaptic relays are operational. How are her vital signs?
EMH: Pulse normal, body temperature fourteen degrees, chroniton level at seventy nine roentgens. Go ahead and activate the chamber, Lieutenant. Increase the bio-temporal field stress.
TORRES: Bringing field stress to twenty five kilodynes.
EMH: Alright, let's try the anti-chronitons.
TORRES: Whenever you're ready, Doc.
EMH: Initiating anti-chroniton burst, ten MEVs, five second pulse. Pulse steady, body temperature at fourteen point two degrees, and rising.
JANEWAY: What about her chroniton count?
EMH: Chroniton count is seventy one roentgens and dropping.
JANEWAY: It's working.
EMH: Lieutenant Torres, increase the field strength to thirty kilodynes.
TORRES: Right.
EMH: Initiating another burst. Fifteen MEVs, five second pulse. Body temperature fourteen point nine degrees, chroniton count sixty eight roentgens, sixty, fifty seven, fifty two.

[Ready room - 2371]
NEELIX: You need a cook. You haven't lived until you've tasted my angla'bosque. It will be my job to anticipate your needs before you know you have them.
KES: Oh, not again.
NEELIX: And I anticipate your first need will be me.
KES: I'm sorry. I know this is going to sound strange to you both, but I don't belong here.
NEELIX: But we discussed this.
KES: You don't understand, I'm traveling backwards in time, getting younger. We have to lower my chroniton levels. You've got to get me into the bio-temporal chamber right away.
NEELIX: I, I, I'm sorry Captain. I didn't quite anticipate this.
KES: Listen to me, please.
NEELIX: Sweeting, try to calm down. I assure you, Captain, she's never behaved this way before.
JANEWAY: Hold on a minute, Mister Neelix. Kes, why don't you start over, slowly.
KES: It begins about eight years in the future, when I'm about to die. No!

[Ocampa - 2370]
BENAREN: Time for dinner. What's wrong, Kes?
YOUNG KES: Who are you? What is this place?
BENAREN: We don't have time to play our guessing game right now, Kes. You know how your mother gets when we're late to the table.
YOUNG KES: You're my father.
BENAREN: That's right, and you're my favorite daughter, but don't tell anyone.
YOUNG KES: Listen to me, something terrible's been happening to me.
BENAREN: What's wrong?
YOUNG KES: There might not be much time so I've got to explain this quickly. Please try to believe me. I've been living aboard a starship called Voyager.
BENAREN: A starship. I see. So now it's not only the surface you're dreaming about exploring.
YOUNG KES: Listen to me. I did go to the surface, or rather, I will go there, and the people aboard the ship are going to rescue me from the Kazon and take me with them.
BENAREN: We can talk about your adventures after dinner.
YOUNG KES: No, there's no time. You've got to believe me. One moment I was this old woman and then, and then
BENAREN: Kes, we're late.
YOUNG KES: Father, please.

[Ocampa Medical Center]
BENAREN: I can see the toes! Keep going, Martis. It's a girl.
MARTIS: Oh, Kes.
BENAREN: It's a girl.
MARTIS: Oh, she's so, she's so beautiful. Kes. I think one day she'll see the sun.

[Sickbay - 2373]
EMH: Fifty one roentgens, forty six, thirty four. Another anti-chroniton burst, twenty MEVs.
TORRES: Right.
EMH: Levels are continuing to drop. Pulse normal, body temperature steady at sixteen point three degrees, chroniton levels are at zero roentgens. Welcome back, Kes.
KES: What's the date? How old am I?
EMH: The same age you were when we put you into the bio-temporal chamber. A healthy three years and two months. And due to an extraordinary display of medical heroics, you're back in temporal sync with the rest of us.

[Holodeck - Paxau resort]
NEELIX: So, I'm going to become a security officer. How about that?
TUVOK: Fortunately, Mister Neelix, what Kes has been describing is merely one possible future. On each occasion that she jumped to a previous time, her subsequent actions most likely altered the future from that moment on.
NEELIX: Good point, Tuvok. Maybe I'll turn out to be Chief Security Officer.
KIM: So, Kes, have you regained all your memories of the past?
KES: I remember last month's supply of replicator rations that you borrowed, that you owe me, if that's what you're asking.
KIM: Don't worry, I haven't forgotten.
EMH: I realize it's only hypothetical, but still I'd be curious to know what sorts of medical breakthroughs I'm going to make in this possible future.
KES: It's not as if I've seen everything that's going to happen over the next six years. I only remember short periods I experienced between jumps.
TORRES: Even so, I bet you found out some pretty interesting things.
PARIS: Yeah, Kes. Tell us what you know.
CHAKOTAY: Careful, Tom. You may find out that you leave Voyager only to join a monastery.
KIM: Hey, give him a little credit. I bet he gets married and has a family.
PARIS: Thank you.
KIM: Don't mention it.
TORRES: Are you telling?
KES: Well, as Tuvok said, I've only seen pieces of one possible future.
PARIS: You know what? Don't tell me. I don't want to know. I like a little mystery in my life.
JANEWAY: Tom's right. I think we should all leave the future to the future.
TUVOK: While I agree it would not be wise for Kes to make all of her experiences public, a report on anything she knows about these Krenim might be useful.
KES: I'll get started right away.
JANEWAY: Hang on a minute. I didn't mean now. Stay and enjoy your party.
KES: If there's one thing that this experience has taught me, Captain, it's that there's no time like the present.

[Holodeck - Doctor's Family Program Beta-Rho]
CHARLENE: Jeffrey, Belle, you're going to be late if you don't hurry. Come on now. Line up next to the door, children. Your father's ready to leave for work. All right, show me your fingernails. Very nicely done. Are your shoes polished? Perfect. I'm very pleased, children, and I'm sure your father will be too.
BELLE: I want to be first to say goodbye to daddy. Jeffrey always goes first.
JEFFREY: You were first yesterday.
CHARLENE: Now, children, little birds in their nest get along.
JEFFREY: You're right, mother. I'm sorry, Belle, you can go first.
BELLE: No, it's really your turn. I did go first yesterday.
JEFFREY: Here he comes.
CHARLENE: All right, now. Bright, happy faces.
EMH: The coffee was quite good this morning.
CHARLENE: I'm so glad you like it. I replicated a new blend from Paxau three.
EMH: I'll be home at the usual time.
CHARLENE: Now don't let them overwork you. You should save yourself for the important things. Others can do the busy work.
EMH: I couldn't agree more.
JEFFREY: I hope you have a good day, Father. I'll have my homework finished by the time you get back.
EMH: I'll look forward to reviewing it, Jeffrey. And is my little angel going to get an A on her history exam today?
BELLE: Of course I will, daddy, and can we do some algebra problems when you get home?
EMH: Gladly.
CHARLENE: And don't forget, you're going to ask some of your friends from work to have dinner with us. I'd like to meet them.
EMH: I haven't forgotten. Well, goodbye all.
ALL: Goodbye, daddy.

[Sickbay]
KES: How's the new holo-family, Doctor?
EMH: They're everything I could have hoped for.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50836.2. We've had long range communications with a seemingly friendly race known as the Vostigye. We'll be rendezvousing within the hour at one of their space stations.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Ensign Kim, perhaps you could direct your attention to the sensors, and tell us if we're nearing the Vostigye space station?
KIM: We should be getting close. That's funny, I'm not detecting it.
JANEWAY: You've checked the coordinates they sent us?
KIM: Yes, and. Hold on. Now I'm getting something. It's debris.
CHAKOTAY: Debris?
TUVOK: Confirmed. I am reading a debris field encompassing nearly eighty cubic kilometers.
JANEWAY: What's the composition of the debris?
KIM: Boronite, sarium, carbon 60 composites.
PARIS: Sounds like it could have been a space station.
JANEWAY: On screen. What happened to it?
CHAKOTAY: Something ripped it apart, and from the energy decay readings I'd say it was no more than an hour ago.
KIM: I'm not picking up any lifesigns, Captain. There don't appear to be any survivors.
JANEWAY: There were sixty Vostigye scientists on that station.
TUVOK: I don't read any recognizable weapons signatures.
PARIS: Maybe somebody in this part of space has weapons that don't leave a traditional signature.
JANEWAY: I'd like to know who they are, and why they'd annihilate a science station.
KIM: Maybe we can find out, Captain. There's a strange pattern that seems to be emanating from subspace. Looks like some kind of plasma particles.
CHAKOTAY: I've got it too. It's like a wake, leading away from the debris field.
JANEWAY: From a ship?
CHAKOTAY: I can't tell.
JANEWAY: Set a course to follow it, Tom.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: Optical processors, imaging array, they all check out. Doctor, you are in perfect health.
EMH: I'm sure I could have told you that.
TORRES: Yes, I'm sure you could have, but with all the tinkering you've been doing with your program lately, I feel better giving you these little tune-ups on a regular basis.
EMH: The tinkering you speak of has been for the sole purpose of improving my performance as a physician. I can hardly be faulted for that.
TORRES: I'm not faulting you for your intentions, Doctor. I think it's rather commendable that you want to improve yourself.
EMH: That's why I've created a family.
TORRES: A family?
EMH: I've listened to enough patients talk about their families to realize how meaningful they are to biological beings.
TORRES: Well, for better or worse, yes.
KES: The Doctor has created a holographic wife and two children so that he can experience family life for himself.
TORRES: Interesting. And how's it going so far?
EMH: Splendidly. From what I heard, I thought it would be difficult, but I'm enjoying the experience.
TORRES: You are? Funny, I never thought of you as a family man, Doc. I'd like to meet them.
EMH: As a matter of fact, the little woman has been asking me to bring some of my colleagues home for dinner. Perhaps you and Kes would care to join us tonight? Charlene is a wonderful cook.
KES: I'd like to meet them too.
TORRES: Well, Doc, tell your wife to haul out the good china. You're having company.

[Holodeck - Doctor's Family Program Beta-Rho]
CHARLENE: Please, have some more wild mushroom pilaf, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Thanks, I've had two helpings already. It's delicious.
CHARLENE: Well, I took a course in continental cuisine so I could replicate interesting meals for Kenneth.
KES: Kenneth?
CHARLENE: My husband. What do you call him?
KES: Oh, we call him Doctor.
CHARLENE: Oh, of course. Anyway, he works terribly hard and he's under such great stress, I want this home to be a sanctuary, the place he can come and have all the cares of the day disappear.
TORRES: How nice for him.
BELLE: My daddy's a very important man. He's the best doctor there ever was, and he saves people's lives all the time.
EMH: A slight exaggeration.
BELLE: It is not. You said
EMH: Belle, eat your dinner. They're well aware of my talents. Jeffrey, why don't you tell our guests about your new project at school.
JEFFREY: I've designed a microfilter implant which will make it possible to cleanse blood of harmful micro-organisms too small to stimulate an immune response.
EMH: Jeffrey is extremely bright. He's in the accelerated physical sciences program at school.
TORRES: A regular chip off the old block, right?
CHARLENE: And don't forget about our little Belle. She's already studying algebra and trigonometry, and she's quite the budding athlete.
KES: You must be very proud of your family, Doctor.
EMH: Oh.
CHARLENE: Well, we're proud of him too. In fact, we think we have just about the most wonderful husband and father in the quadrant, don't we
TORRES: Computer, freeze program.
CHILDREN: Yes, we do
EMH: Lieutenant, what are you doing?
TORRES: I am stopping this before my blood sugar levels overload. Doctor.
EMH: Yes?
TORRES: If you think that this is giving you an accurate impression of being in a family, you are sadly mistaken.
EMH: I don't understand.
KES: They're kind of perfect.
TORRES: They are ridiculously perfect. No one has a family like this. This is a fantasy. You're not going to learn anything being with these lollipops.
EMH: I provided the computer with my requirements for a mate and children. If I were to choose a real wife, my tastes would be the same. Intelligence, education, organizational skills.
TORRES: There is nothing wrong with your premise, Doctor, it just needs a little tweaking to bring it closer to real life. I can help, if you'd like.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Captain, the particle wave we've been following is beginning to thin out.
JANEWAY: Is there any indication what caused it?
TUVOK: I am detecting no ships, no structures, no weapons signatures.
KIM: Wait a minute. Something.
CHAKOTAY: I see it too. A subspace disruption.
JANEWAY: What's causing it?
KIM: Can't tell, but it's getting more intense.
JANEWAY: Shields up. Red Alert. Tom, back us off.
KIM: Something's coming out of subspace.
JANEWAY: Tom, move us away.
PARIS: I don't have engines.
KIM: Propulsion is offline, so is navigational control.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. We need power.
TORRES (voiceover): I'm on it, Captain.
TUVOK: The anomaly is bearing down on us, heading zero four seven mark one nine.
CHAKOTAY: Brace for impact!
KIM: It hit our starboard shields.
TUVOK: There's damage on deck three.
JANEWAY: Ready weapons. We're going to disperse it.
TUVOK: Phasers online.
PARIS: Wait a minute.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not afraid to say it. I've never seen anything like that before.
JANEWAY: Damage report.
TUVOK: Twenty percent loss of the starboard dorsal shields, and minor buckling of the hull on deck three.
KIM: No indication of casualties.
PARIS: We've got propulsion systems back online. I think I can put some distance between us and whatever that was.
JANEWAY: Maybe we don't want to. We've just witnessed a phenomenon none of us has ever heard of before, much less experienced. On a purely scientific level, I think we owe it to ourselves to investigate.
CHAKOTAY: I'm looking at the telemetry we've collected. It was an astral eddy that seems to have formed at the confluence of space and subspace.
KIM: It's highly charged with plasma. That explains the particle wake.
CHAKOTAY: If we could harness some of that energy, we could go off replicator rations for a while.
KIM: Captain, we don't have any idea what caused that phenomenon, or what made it dissipate. So how do we investigate it if it's gone?
JANEWAY: I suspect there are conditions in this part of space that lend themselves to the formation of those eddies. Set sensors for continuous scans of subspace. Maybe we can anticipate the next one.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: I thought for a long time about what Lieutenant Torres said, and I finally concluded she was right. If I'm going to have the experience of a family, it should be as authentic as possible.
KES: What changes have you asked her to make in the program?
EMH: Oh, she's already made them. She's simply added some randomized behavioral algorithms to the program I constructed.
KES: How will it affect your family?
EMH: Events will simply unfold as a matter of natural evolution of probabilities within the program, but there's no way to predict what those might be.
KES: That could mean a few surprises. Are you sure you've ready for this?
EMH: My database contains everything there is to know about pediatric care and childhood development. I can't imagine a parenting problem I couldn't handle.
KES: Your wife will have changed too.
EMH: Well, I have had some experience with romantic relationships. I don't anticipate any problems there.
KES: Sounds like you have it all worked out. When do you plan on meeting this new, improved family?
EMH: Right now. I'm due home for dinner. Computer, initiate Doctor's Family Program Beta-Rho and transfer the EMH to holodeck two.

[Holodeck - Doctor's Family Program Beta-Rho]
EMH: Hello, I'm
EMH: Home.
CHARLENE: There you are. I thought you'd never get here.
EMH: It was a busy day. I was quite challenged by the task of preparing a DNA probe to test Ensign Parson's glial cells. It seems he has a microbial infection. Rather unusual.
CHARLENE: Tell me about it when I get home. I'm late already.
EMH: Late?
CHARLENE: It's Wednesday, remember? I'm speaking at the Bolian embassy.
EMH: Ah. Right. Is dinner ready?
CHARLENE: It's your night to cook.
BELLE (voiceover): Mom! l can't find my ion mallet.
CHARLENE: If you cleaned your room you'd have better luck.
EMH: What is that noise?
CHARLENE: I've had to listen to it all day. Maybe you can do something about it.
BELLE: Oh Daddy, you've got to help me. I'll be late for practice. Coach Morgan'll be furious if I'm late again.
EMH: If you put your mallet in your closet when you were done with it, you'd know where it was.
BELLE: I know that, Daddy. Oh, tell Jeffrey to turn that off. It makes my eyes hurt!
EMH: Mine too. Jeffrey? Jeffrey?
JEFFREY: What?
EMH: What is that music?
JEFFREY: Klingon.
EMH: Well, turn it down. You can't do your homework with that noise.
BELLE: Daddy, I can't find your mallet!
EMH: I know that, Belle.
BELLE: They're going to send me down to the second team!
EMH: Well, perhaps that will teach you a lesson.
BELLE: You don't understand anything!
EMH: Belle, you have to realize
LARG: Where's Jeffery?
EMH: Who are you?
LARG: Friends.
EMH: Do you have names?
LARG: Larg.
K'KATH: K'kath.
EMH: Well, Larg and K'kath, you'll have to come back later. Jeffrey's doing his homework.
LARG: He invited us.
BELLE: Daddy! I need my iron mallet!
EMH: I! Just a minute. I'm sorry, but Jeffrey can't see friends until he has finished his homework.
JEFFREY: Dad, I asked them to come.
BELLE: Daddy!
EMH: Jeffery, this is unacceptable.
JEFFREY: It'll only take a minute. We have some business we have to do.
EMH: Business?
JEFFREY: HIquoS, pos'tach.
LARG: NuqneH.
BELLE: Where's my mallet? I need it now!
EMH: Young man!
BELLE: You're mean! I want my mommy here! She'd help me find my mallet! I want mommy! I want mommy! I want mommy! I want mommy!

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Nothing striking your fancy, Lieutenant?
PARIS: Isn't this the fourth day in a row we've had the same casserole?
NEELIX: Pleeka rinds and grub meal. Very tasty, if I do say so myself.
PARIS: Well, you did a great job with it, no question. It's just be nice to have a little variety.
NEELIX: Well you're perfectly free to use the replicators.
PARIS: Ah. I'm out of rations.
NEELIX: Then, enjoy the casserole.
PARIS: A beautiful woman should never have to eat alone. What are you reading?
TORRES: It's nothing important.
PARIS: Women Warriors at the River of Blood?
TORRES: It's just escapist reading.
PARIS: Rork turned his fierce eye upon her, and B'Neah felt her heart begin to quicken, even as her hand went to her dagger. She had intended to plunge it into his throat, but something about him made her hesitate. B'Elanna, is this a Klingon Romance novel?
TORRES: Klingons do have what you might call a romantic side. It's a bit more vigorous than most.
PARIS: I think I'll read it. Maybe it'll give me some ideas how to make your heart quicken.
TORRES: It's not a technical manual, Tom.
PARIS: Well, that depends what you mean by technical.
TORRES: To an engineer, that means specializing in particular systems.
PARIS: I think that definition works.
TORRES: But I can't promise I won't put a dagger in your throat. Have you heard about the Doctor's new family?
PARIS: How's it going?
TORRES: I think he was a little overwhelmed at first, but I have to give him credit. He's sticking with it.
PARIS: It's hard to imagine the Doctor with children.
TORRES: What?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Senior staff to the bridge immediately.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Tom. I want to send a probe into that anomaly. Can you hold position close enough for us to get accurate telemetry?
PARIS: I can try.
CHAKOTAY: Be ready to move away quickly if it starts moving towards us.
PARIS: Sorry about that. Just trying to find a way to ride the graviton waves it's throwing off. There, that's a little better. We're in as good a position as we're going to be.
JANEWAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: The probe has been launched.
PARIS: Actually, this is kind of fun.
TORRES: Speak for yourself.
KIM: We're starting to receive telemetry. Captain, this is one weird disturbance. I'm reading a temperature gradient of nine million Kelvin's, massive discharges of plasmatic energy, and there's a perfectly calm eye at the center.
TUVOK: Apparently some of the matter inside it is being exchanged between space and subspace.
CHAKOTAY: What about the plasma? Is there anyway we can transfer some of it to Voyager?
TORRES: I don't see how. We can't transport with this kind of turbulence.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can try a
PARIS: We lost it.
CHAKOTAY: Where's the probe?
KIM: It's disappeared. It's still transmitting, but there's a lot of interference.
TORRES: I'm detecting some kind of unstable interfold layer, not in space or subspace. It could be where the eddies originate, and where the probe is now.
CHAKOTAY: We've got another particle wake. Since we can't get plasma directly from the eddies, maybe we can collect some from their wakes.
TUVOK: The Bussard collectors could be modified to gather plasma particles.
TORRES: We could do that, but Voyager's energy emissions are so high they'd corrupt the particles. I'm not sure the plasma would be much use to us.
PARIS: What if I took a shuttle out? The energy emissions would be a lot lower.
JANEWAY: That sounds like it's worth a try.
TORRES: You'd be exposing yourself to radiation poisoning.
JANEWAY: Check with the Doctor. Maybe he can give you some kind of protection.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. I'll head to the shuttlebay as soon as I'm done.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've given you a combination of hyronalin and lectrazine. That should give you temporary protection, but I can't guarantee it's duration.
PARIS: That's all right, Doc. I don't think I'll be out there too long.
EMH: If I know you, you'll push it to the limit. You enjoy flirting with danger.
PARIS: You know me too well.
EMH: You were undoubtedly one of those children who had to climb the highest tree, scale the tallest cliff.
PARIS: That was me.
EMH: I can only imagine what you must have put your parents through.
PARIS: How's the family, Doc? I hear they're a real handful.
EMH: Indeed. However, I have analyzed the situation and come up with a solution. There should be no more problems.
PARIS: You make it sound like you're treating a sick patient. I'm not sure you can diagnose and cure a family.
EMH: We'll see. You're in fine physical shape, Lieutenant. You may go ahead and engage in this reckless activity.
PARIS: Thanks, Doc.

[Holodeck - Doctor's Family Program Beta-Rho]
EMH: Where's Jeffrey?
CHARLENE: He's coming.
EMH: I asked everyone to be here at sixteen hundred hours precisely.
BELLE: Jeffrey was asleep.
EMH: Asleep? In the middle of the afternoon?
EMH: Is this true? Were you asleep?
CHARLENE: Are you sick?
JEFFREY: I had a late night.
EMH: That's one of the matters I want to discuss. Thank you all for coming. I thought it would be a good idea if we had a family meeting. In fact, I'd like to do this on a regular basis.
JEFFREY: That's something to look forward to.
EMH: If you have something to say, Jeffrey, say it so everyone can hear.
JEFFREY: Nothing.
EMH: I've been feeling that this family is beginning to spin out of control. As husband and father I believe it is my duty to set some parameters. It's part of good parenting.
BELLE: What are parameters?
EMH: Limits, boundaries. To that end, I have drawn up a revised family schedule and a list of rules and regulations. I'd like you all to study them carefully.
CHARLENE: You've rearranged my lecture nights.
EMH: I had to do that in order to make everything work. Everybody has had to make some sacrifices.
BELLE: Daddy! You changed Pareses Squares from Monday, Wednesday, Friday to Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday. That puts me on the second team. I'm good enough to be on the first team.
EMH: You shouldn't be on the first team. You're not old enough. As I said, Belle, we must all make sacrifices.
JEFFREY: What sacrifices did you make?
EMH: I will make dinner on the nights your mother lectures.
BELLE: You do that anyway. That's not a sacrifice.
JEFFREY: What's this about no Klingon friends?
EMH: Exactly that. They're a bad influence on you. They're prone to violence, they keep you out till all hours. Why don't you find some nice Vulcan friends?
JEFFREY: You can't just decide who my friends will be.
CHARLENE: Hold on. Kenneth, that may be a bit unreasonable.
EMH: Charlene? You know very well how important it is to keep a united front. I expect you to support me in these decisions.
CHARLENE: Well, if that's what you expect then maybe you should have asked my opinion before you started unilaterally deciding things. I'm not one of the children, after all. I believe I should have some say in just what rules and regulations are established. And I think it's unfair for you to tell Jeffrey what friends he can and cannot have.
JEFFREY: Right. This whole meeting is a Vulky idea, and you can have it without me.
EMH: Jeffrey, you are not excused!
CHARLENE: You've upset him. Let him go. I don't want to argue this in front of the children. We'll discuss it later.
BELLE: You really made a mess of things, didn't you, Daddy?
EMH: Apparently so. Although I fail to understand their reaction. I'm just trying to help the family function better.
BELLE: How does it make the family function better if I go to Pareses Squares Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturday?
EMH: Belle, you've been playing with children two and three years older than you. That's much too dangerous.
BELLE: But that's what's fun about it.
EMH: You're not old enough to realize how hazardous that game can be. It's up to me to keep you safe. I'm just trying to be a good father.
BELLE: If it'll help, Daddy, I'll be on the second team.
EMH: Thank you, Belle. That's very grown up of you.
BELLE: And I think you're a very good father.
EMH: Why, thank you.
BELLE: I love you, Daddy, even if you did make a mess of things.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Voyager to Shuttlecraft Cochrane. Do you read?
PARIS: Loud and clear, Captain. I'm about three thousand kilometers from the eddy. As soon as it dissipates

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): I'll head for the particle wake.
JANEWAY: If this one follows the pattern of the others, it should begin to collapse within a few seconds.
PARIS (voiceover): That's good.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: I'm beginning to wish I hadn't had that second helping of French toast

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): This morning.
KIM: Captain, the eddy is starting to dissipate.
JANEWAY: Stand by, Tom.
PARIS (voiceover): I'm ready.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: I'm in position, Captain. Activating the Bussard collectors. It's working.

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): This may save us from Neelix's pleeka rind casserole after all.
JANEWAY: We'll all thank you for that.
KIM: Captain, subspace disruption.
JANEWAY: Is another eddy forming?
KIM: It looks that way.
JANEWAY: Tom, get out of there.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Now.
PARIS: I'm going.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Harry, can you beam him out?
KIM: Transporters are offline.
TORRES: I'm working on them.
JANEWAY: Tom, are you there? Say again.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: It's pulling me in! I don't have enough power!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Where are the transporters?
TORRES: I can't access them.
KIM: The shuttle's being drawn inside the eddy.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Paris, do you read me?
TUVOK: Captain, the astral eddy is beginning to dissipate.
JANEWAY: Harry, when the probe disappeared it kept transmitting. What about Tom's shuttle?
KIM: Getting a lot of interference. Can't tell if it's a transmission or not.
JANEWAY: See if you can clean it up.
KIM: I've adjusted the encoding filter. Try it now.
JANEWAY: Voyager to Tom Paris. Can you hear us? Respond. Calibrate to a theta band frequency. Maybe that'll help.
PARIS (voiceover): I can't hear you, Captain. There's a lot of plasma interference. I can't clean it up.
JANEWAY: Say again, Tom. You're breaking up. Adjust your transceiver lock and try again.
PARIS (voiceover): I can hear you. Is that better?
JANEWAY: Yes, a little. Where are you?

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: Captain, I wish I could tell you.

[Doctor's office]
KES: Doctor? Can I help you with something?
EMH: Oh, no, no. Perhaps. I've been trying to do an immunogenicity analysis on Ensign Parson's cell culture, and I can't seem to get the measurements right.
KES: I'd be happy to give it a try.
EMH: Thank you, I'd be grateful.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Actually I've been having a few problems at home. I can't seem to stop thinking about them.
KES: Well, there's nothing important going on here. Why don't you take the afternoon off and spend some time with your family.
EMH: I'm not sure they'd appreciate it.
KES: Doctor, you can't just ignore them.
EMH: Computer, initiate Doctor's Family Program Beta-Rho and transfer the EMH to Holodeck two.

[Holodeck - Doctor's Family Program Beta-Rho]
LARG: Then everything is done exactly
JEFFREY: Dad. What are you doing here?
EMH: I live here, Jeffrey, in case you've forgotten.
JEFFREY: I mean, you're home early.
EMH: Am I interrupting something?
JEFFREY: No, no, just talking with my friends.
EMH: I'd like to get to know your friends. Larg, K'kath, please sit down. What is that?
LARG: What?
EMH: You're holding something.
LARG: This?
EMH: Yes. What is it?
JEFFREY: It's a knife. What does it look like?
EMH: Why do you boys have a knife?
LARG: A d'k tahg knife is an important part of our culture. Every Klingon is given one at preparation for his Rite of Ascension.
EMH: Hmm.
EMH: I happen to know something about Klingon rituals, and I believe this is actually a dagger of kut'luch. Isn't it? Well?
LARG: Yes.
EMH: This dagger is used in a ritual of violence. A first blood-letting in preparation for becoming a warrior. Who's supposed to use this? Well? Is one of you preparing for the kut'luch ceremony? I'm waiting for an answer.
JEFFREY: Dad, you're making something out of nothing.
EMH: I don't think so. I'm going to have to ask you boys to leave.
JEFFREY: Dad.
EMH: And don't bring a weapon into this house again.
LARG: I told you. Humans are weak, cowardly.
JEFFREY: Call me later.
JEFFERY: Now look what you've done. You've ruined it!
EMH: What exactly have I ruined?
JEFFREY: Nothing. Never mind.
EMH: You were going to use that knife, weren't you? Did they talk you into some kind of ritual violence?
JEFFREY: They didn't talk me into anything. I asked them. It's an honor to get to perform the kut'luch. They don't just let anybody do it. They trusted me, and now you've made me look like a, like a human.
EMH: You were going to attack someone, draw blood, just so you could appear daring in the eyes of your friends?
JEFFREY: I was doing it to become honorable. Something that you wouldn't understand.
EMH: Jeffrey, how can I make you understand that what you are going to do is wrong.
JEFFREY: It isn't wrong, it's just the custom of another culture! Who are you to say there's something wrong about it.
EMH: I am your father and I expect you to be guided by my ethical standards.
JEFFREY: Well I'm not going to be. Your standards are human standards. They're weak and inferior. Klingon ideals are much nobler, and they are the one's I'm going to follow.
EMH: If you expect to live in this household you will abide by the rules.
JEFFREY: If that's the way you want it, then I won't live here.
EMH: Jeffrey, think about this.
JEFFREY: Oh, I've thought about it. I'm going to become a warrior, and I can't do that if I'm being led around on leash by some bloodless petaQ.
CHARLENE (screen): Kenneth?
EMH: What is it? What's happened?
CHARLENE (screen): It's Belle, there's been an accident.

[Holodeck - hospital room]
CHARLENE: How is she?
EMH: Doctor Findlay and I operated on her for three hours. We've tried everything. We shut down one hemorrhage and another starts.
CHARLENE: I don't understand. She just hit her head on the corner of the court. How could that have injured her so badly?
EMH: She suffered severe cranial trauma. It's compromised her brain stem and motor cortex. No matter how we try to control the vascular injuries, blood clots keep forming. The hemorrhaging is intractable.
CHARLENE: Then what do you do? What's the treatment?
EMH: Unfortunately, the brain is still a somewhat mysterious organ.
CHARLENE: What does that mean? What's going to happen to her?
EMH: There's nothing more to be done. Nothing medical, anyway.
CHARLENE: But there has to be. Kenneth, you can do something. You have to. You can't just let her. No. No, I won't accept it. I'm going to talk to Doctor Findlay.
EMH: Belle.
BELLE: Daddy?
EMH: Yes, I'm here.
BELLE: Everything's all blurry. What's the matter?
EMH: You took a tumble, hit your head.
BELLE: It doesn't hurt.
EMH: No, because we gave you some medicine.
BELLE: Is that why I can't feel my legs?
EMH: Yes.
BELLE: What's going to happen? When will I be able to see again?
EMH: Computer, end program!

[Sickbay]
KES: Oh, you're back.
EMH: Yes.
KES: Did you find the culture I did on Ensign Parson's glial cells?
EMH: I did, thank you. Good job.

[Doctor's office]
KES: How's the family?
EMH: I suppose they're fine. I've actually finished the program.
KES: Finished? Already?
EMH: Well, I got what I needed from the experience. It was thoroughly pleasurable, of course, but to continue would be a waste of time.
KES: I was hoping to visit them again. I really enjoyed our dinner together.
EMH: Well, if I ever create a new family, I'll be sure to invite you.

[Bridge]
TORRES: The communications bandwidth is as wide as I can get it.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Paris. How's the transmission now?
PARIS (voiceover): Loud and clear, Captain.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: I've been analyzing the shuttle's sensor readings, and as nearly as I can figure, I'm in the interfold layer that we talked about

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): Somewhere between space and subspace.
JANEWAY: That's why we can't find you on any of our scans.
PARIS (voiceover): Harry was right.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: This looks like the spawning ground for the astral eddies.

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): There are thousands of baby ones in here.
JANEWAY: That's very interesting, Tom, but it doesn't address the problem of how to get you out of there.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: Well, I've been giving that some careful thought, Captain, and it seems to me the only way to get out is the same way that I got in.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Inside one of the eddies?
PARIS (voiceover): Exactly.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: I've been watching one that seems about ready to erupt into normal space.

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): If I can position the shuttle on it's leading edge I should be able to ride it back.
JANEWAY: If I had another idea I'd suggest it, but I don't. It's your call, Tom.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: I don't see that there's much choice. So far so good, Captain. I'm almost inside the eye. I think this one is just about big enough to enter normal space.

[Bridge]
KIM: Here he comes.
PARIS (voiceover): Captain?
JANEWAY: Yes, Tom.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: I think you should get Voyager away from here.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What's wrong?
PARIS (voiceover): This one's turning out

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: To be a whopper. The biggest one we've seen by far. I don't think you should put the ship in danger.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I'm not leaving, Tom. We've got to stay in close if we're going to beam you out.
TUVOK: The eddy is moving towards us at a velocity of three hundred kilometers per second.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, take the conn. Keep us ahead of it, but stay within transporter range.
CHAKOTAY: Right.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: I'm going to try to get out of this.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Harry, can you get a lock on him?
KIM: Not yet. Everything's too unstable.
JANEWAY: Tom, how much longer before you clear the eddy?

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
PARIS: It'd better be soon. The hull is beginning to buckle.

[Bridge]
TORRES: I've got the shuttle on sensors. The hull is breaching.
JANEWAY: Harry, can you get a lock on him yet?
KIM: I'm trying. Hang on. Got it! The shuttle's aboard, Captain. One life sign.
TORRES: He's injured.
JANEWAY: Beam him to Sickbay. Chakotay, move us away.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, ma'am.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Your hard head has protected you again, Lieutenant. It was only a mild concussion.
PARIS: It was worth it, though. That was one wild ride.
EMH: I'm sure it was. And it's a wonder you're not dead. People like you who court danger should be thrown into the brig.
PARIS: Doc.
EMH: You never think of the consequences of your actions, the effect they might have on others. Oh, no, live for the moment, take risks you shouldn't. I'm sorry.
PARIS: Are you all right?
EMH: I. It's my family. My daughter Belle had an accident. She's a child who tends to take risks. She's going to die.
PARIS: I'm so sorry.
EMH: I'll be all right. I shut down the program. I'm not going back.
PARIS: Maybe you should think about that, Doc.
EMH: I couldn't begin to face it. It was too difficult.
PARIS: I guess all of us would avoid that kind of pain if we could, but most people don't have that choice.
EMH: Well, fortunately, I do.
PARIS: Is it so fortunate? You created that program so you could experience what it's like to have a family. The good times and the bad. You can't have one without the other.
EMH: I fail to see why not.
PARIS: Well, think about what's happened to us here on Voyager. Everyone left people behind, and everyone suffered a loss, but look how it's brought us all closer together. We found support here, and friendship, and we've become a family in part because of the pain we shared. If you turn your back on this program, you'll always be stuck at this point. You'll never have the chance to say goodbye to your daughter, or to be there for your wife and son when they need you. And you'll be cheating yourself of the chance to have their love and support. In the long run, you'll miss the whole point of what it means to have a family.

[Holodeck]
EMH: Computer, continue Doctor's Family Program Beta-Rho, from the last point of deactivation.

[Holodeck - hospital room]
BELLE: Daddy, what's going to happen to me? When will I be able to see again?
EMH: I'm not sure. You're a very sick girl.
BELLE: Am I going to die?
EMH: You, you're too sick to get better.
BELLE: So I'm going to die?
EMH: Yes.
BELLE: If you'll stay with me, I won't be afraid.
EMH: I'll stay right here, I promise.
JEFFREY: Dad.
JEFFERY: Here you go, shorty. It's your blanket.
CHARLENE: We're here, Belle. We're all here.
BELLE: It's getting darker. I'm sleepy.
EMH: It's all right. Go to sleep. We're all right here.

[Cave - Hanon IV]
VEER: Is there a genetic match?
GEGEN: Yes. Let's gather the find and bring it back to the ship.
VEER: Could this be it? The proof?
GEGEN: If it is, we've just made the most important discover in Voth history.

[Gegen's Research Vessel]
VEER: Opposable thumb. Multiple articulation of the digits, as expected from a technologically advanced species.
GEGEN: His cranial capacity is twenty two percent smaller than ours, and he appears to be lacking a dilitus lobe.
VEER: He had no sense of smell?
GEGEN: If he did, it was rudimentary. I doubt this fellow would have enjoyed the sulfur lagoons of Hokath. His cartilaginous microstructure is extremely porous. Most likely warm-blooded. I believe this was a non-saurian.
VEER: Non-saurian? Doesn't that weaken our case?
GEGEN: No. No, the genetic markers we share with this being are undeniable. We are related, however distantly. The question we must answer is, what was our endotherm doing in this part of space?
VEER: Was he on an expedition? Did he have a ship? Crewmates?
GEGEN: This material. It's composed of synthetic polymers, and the molecular structure suggests replication technology. And consider the garment itself. Is this marking purely decorative, or does it have a symbolic function. Could it indicate status?
VEER: Possibly a military uniform.
GEGEN: At the very least, we can assume he was part of a social infrastructure. That would imply a ship. Did your eyes see the planet of our origin, the true home of our race? Was it beautiful? Was it covered by oceans, by sand? Were there nine moons above your head? Were there none? He appears to be at a loss for words. His ship and the people on it hold the key to where we came from. We've got to find it.
VEER: I'll contact our supporters at the Circle of Archeology. They might be able to spare a research vessel, perhaps a few assistants.
GEGEN: This isn't a field trip, Veer! We need to mount a sector wide expedition, and that means a fleet of ships. We have to go directly to the Ministry of Elders.
VEER: Professor, don't you think that's a little precipitous?
GEGEN: Bone decalcification indicates he died more than a year old. His ship could be thousands of light years away by now! Time is running out. You must remember, Veer, from the moment you were initiated into my Circle, you made a commitment to the pursuit of scientific truth. Before this, all we had was a theory. Now we have proof. We simply have to get them to open their eyes and see it. We're going to set a course for the City Ship, present our friend here, and let him do the talking.

[Voth City Ship]
GEGEN: For millions of years our people have believed that we were the first intelligent beings to evolve in this region of space. The first race. This assumption underlies everything that we hold dear. But that belief has been questioned in recent years, not only by the Circles of Science and Philosophy, but by common people as well. Lying before you is proof of the Distant Origin theory. These remains demonstrate beyond doubt that we arose elsewhere in this galaxy, that we evolved on a far away planet, and traveled to this space millions of years ago, our true history lost.
ODALA: A pile of bones. Impressive.
GEGEN: This pile of bones belonged to a being who died approximately one a year ago, from a species found nowhere in known space, and yet we share forty seven genetic markers with this being. We are undoubtedly related to him, and I intend to prove to you that we evolved on the very same planet he did.
ODALA: And that planet is the long lost world of the Distant Origin theory?
GEGEN: Yes, that's exactly right. And to find that planet, our planet, we must find a living member of his kind. I've created a computer extrapolation. We're looking for a race of bipedal endotherms, spacefaring but technologically limited. Based on their cranial capacity I'd say they're no more advanced than most endotherms.
HALUK: Endotherms. You're proposing we're related to a mammalian species?
GEGEN: Yes. Which is why I ask your permission to launch an expedition.
ODALA: Let's talk about your discovery. I enjoyed the colorful tale of how you found these remains. It says here that you paid a substantial sum for their location.
GEGEN: I was dealing with traders. They knew the location of the cave. I had no choice.
ODALA: Have you considered you were the victim of a hoax?
GEGEN: I have analyzed every micron of the skeleton. I assure you it's authentic.
ODALA: Professor Gegen, have you considered the wider implication of your theory?
GEGEN: What do you mean?
ODALA: By challenging Doctrine, you're suggesting that everything we believe about ourselves, our history, our ancient and rightful claim over this region of space, the authority of this Ministry itself, is a lie.
GEGEN: That's not what I'm saying at all. However, in the light of my discovery, some of our beliefs may have to be re-evaluated.
ODALA: Re-evaluated. We will consider your request for an expedition.
VEER: Well done, Professor.
GEGEN: Hardly. I failed to anticipate the level of ignorance I would be facing.
VEER: What do we do now?
GEGEN: I want you to arrange a meeting with the Circle of Exobiology. We have supporters there.
FROLA: Father, I'm concerned.
GEGEN: Unnecessarily.
FROLA: I don't think they were very receptive.
GEGEN: They don't need to be. The evidence will speak for itself. And word of my discovery is already traveling. If enough people confront the Ministry
FROLA: Mathematics was never your strong point, Father. You might be overestimating your support.
GEGEN: You don't believe me either, do you.
FROLA: I, I want to. Our ancestors came from somewhere else. We don't even belong here? It all just seems so incredible.
GEGEN: I'm disappointed in you.
FROLA: Father, please, let this go. You're chasing a fantasy and you're wasting your genius. I'm worried about what's going to happen to you if you don't stop.
GEGEN: What's going to happen to you if I do stop? To your children, to all of Voth. You'll continue to live in ignorance, progress held back by ancient myth. The truth must be known.

[Gegen's Research Vessel]
VEER: We've got to leave. Now.
GEGEN: What's happened?
VEER: I met with the Circle of Exobiology. They're concerned. There have been rumors.
GEGEN: About what?
VEER: The Ministry has seized your research and they're planning to detain you.
GEGEN: On what charge?
VEER: Heresy against Doctrine.
GEGEN: I'll fight it!
VEER: It's too late. Your supporters are frightened. No one will back you.
GEGEN: I'll have to do this on my own, then. Go back to your family. As long as you're with me, you're at risk.
VEER: I'm not leaving you, Professor.
GEGEN: I've run an analysis on the uniform marking. I found what appears to be a microscopic identification code. The translation matrix indicates it's most likely a proper name.
VEER: A name?
GEGEN: Yes. I believe it's the name of the endotherm's vessel. We're looking for something called Voyager.
GEGEN (voiceover): Across the vastness of space to find one ship among sea of stars is no simple matter, and for many weeks we found nothing. And then fortune glanced in our direction. A trader from a space station bordering the Nekrit Expanse informed us of a curious group of explorers, claiming to be from the other side of the galaxy. The merchants there spoke of a vessel called Voyager. They were able to help us clarify certain details. With this new information, we began to acquire other items and new evidence. Our most significant find, a canister of warp plasma from Voyager's engines. So now we are scanning space for a matching signature. Little is known about these explorers, but they call themselves human.

[Gegen's Research Vessel]
GEGEN: and they claim to be traveling home to a distant planet. My thoughts are with you, Frola, as are those of my colleague, Veer. Ah, I've just sent a transmission to my daughter.
VEER: Was that wise?
GEGEN: I encrypted the carrier signal. There's no way to trace it.
VEER: I hope you gave her my regards.
GEGEN: Of course I did. I've seen the tint on your scales when she's around. I've let you into my academic circle, but now you wish to enter my family as well.
VEER: No, Professor, I would never presume.
GEGEN: You should know your place. Traditionally, my family mate with the family of Towt.
GEGEN: But traditions are meant to be broken.
VEER: It's the plasma signature. Scanners have found a match. A ship ninety light years away. There are one hundred forty eight lifeforms aboard, traveling at warp six point two.
GEGEN: I'm engaging spatial displacement It's unlikely their primitive sensors will be able to detect us once we're out of phase. Take us out of transwarp, we don't want to pass them.
VEER: Done. I have an image. What do we say to them?
GEGEN: Nothing. Not at the moment. We stand to learn more by observing. Once we've collected the information we need, and if they appear non-violent, we'll make contact.
VEER: Entering portation range.
GEGEN: We'll be looking for their data storage devices, analyzing their behavior, anything that can tell us who and what these people are. Eyes open, Veer.

[Corridor]
GEGEN: Interphase is stable.
VEER: Curious. I didn't expect the smell.
GEGEN: Well, they are mammals, after all. Ah, over here. This appears to be a computer access terminal. Simple binary system. I've downloaded their database.
PARIS: I'll bet you it's an anodyne relay.
TORRES: No way. A plasma conduit.
PARIS: Relay. I'm telling you. I checked the conduit network.
TORRES: My point exactly. You're not an engineer.
PARIS: I'll bet you.
TORRES: Name it.
GEGEN: Male and female interacting. Let's observe.

[Engineering]
PARIS: Well?
TORRES: Well, go ahead and gloat.
PARIS: The anodyne relays. Who would have guessed?
TORRES: Just a shot in the dark.
PARIS: And it hit the bulls-eye. Tonight, you pay up. Holodeck two, Klingon martial arts program, no getting out of it this time.
VEER: Courting behavior?
GEGEN: Exactly. Note how the female through the feigned antagonism encourages the male in his attempt to mate.
VEER: There's no sign of vasodilatation in their skin.
GEGEN: Obviously they never evolved that ability, which would explain their reliance on crude verbal interplay.
PARIS: I'll see you tonight. BYOB.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: Bring your own bat'leth.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: We've completed long range scans. If we maintain our present course we'll enter a region of heavy tetryon radiation within two days.
JANEWAY: What's the alternative?
CHAKOTAY: A three month detour.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, enhance the shields. Lieutenant, hold our course. Harry, continue your long range scans.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Let's access everything known about tetryon radiation. I want to take every precaution.
GEGEN: Well, Veer, what can you observe about their social structure?
VEER: It's obviously hierarchical, with clear differences in status and rank. The males appear to be subordinate to that female. Perhaps a matriarchy.
GEGEN: My conclusion exactly.
KIM: This is strange. I'm picking up spatial fluctuations. They're coming from the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM: Not sure, but they're highly localized, with modulating phase variance. Looks like some kind of cloaking technology.
JANEWAY: All stop. Intruder alert.
GEGEN: We've exceeded our welcome. Let's get back to the ship.
VEER: What's wrong?
GEGEN: Some sort of forcefield.
TUVOK: I've erected a level ten containment field around the bridge, Captain.
KIM: Scanning on all subspace frequencies. I'm picking up two lifeforms.
CHAKOTAY: Localize them.
KIM: Mission Ops one.
VEER: Professor?
GEGEN: The forcefield is disrupting our interphase. I'm compensating. I can at least get us off this deck.
JANEWAY: Show yourselves.
KIM: Captain, the lifeforms left the bridge. They're now on deck two, section thirteen. Mess hall.
CHAKOTAY: Seal off the deck.
TUVOK: Deck two sealed. Security team to the mess hall.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Intruders? I don't see any intruders?
GEGEN: It would appear we've underestimated our endotherms.
VEER: We should make contact. Explain ourselves.
GEGEN: It may come to that.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, I've analyzed the spatial phase variance.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Chakotay.

[Turbolift]
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Adjust hand phasers to a dispersion frequency of one point eight five gigahertz. That should disrupt their cloaking technology.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.

[Mess hall]
GEGEN: I've matched the frequency of their shields. I think we can get off this
TUVOK: Spatial fluctuations. There.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix, get down!

[Sickbay]
EMH: Minor phaser burns to the upper thoracic region. Nothing serious. But I want to check for cellular damage.
KES: I'll run a microcellular scan.
EMH: Begin a DNA analysis as well, I'd like to know more about his molecular physiology.
JANEWAY: A belated welcome aboard. I'm Captain Janeway. Now, who are you and what have you done with my First Officer? You must have a ship. Is it cloaked? I'm not going to hurt you, we just want to know why you
EMH: His heart rate and body temperature have dropped. His metabolism is almost completely shut down.
TUVOK: Is he dying?
EMH: I don't think so. His autonomic nervous system is still fully functional. He's gone into some sort of protective hibernation.
JANEWAY: Treat his injuries, then see if you can revive him. Examine his technology. I want to know what we're up against.

[Gegen's Research Vessel]
GEGEN: Don't be alarmed. You're on my research vessel.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager.
GEGEN: Your instinct is to flee, but I must warn you, there's a confinement field around the table. Just stay calm and you won't hurt yourself.
CHAKOTAY: What do you want from me? Why did you invade our ship?
GEGEN: It wasn't an invasion. We were on a field expedition to learn more about your species. We meant no harm. I'm a molecular paleontologist.
CHAKOTAY: Do you always harpoon the local wildlife?
GEGEN: An unfortunate mistake. Veer is inexperienced and he panicked. Your people were firing at us. I couldn't get to him.
CHAKOTAY: So you took me instead.
GEGEN: Yes. A living specimen of human. I've been studying your computer database and I have many questions. The planet of your origin, correct?
CHAKOTAY: That's right. Earth.
GEGEN: Are there any of my kind there? Any of my species?
CHAKOTAY: Who are you?
GEGEN: Please, answer the question.
CHAKOTAY: Look, drop the forcefield and tell me what's going on. Then maybe we can make first contact in a civilized way. For what it's worth I'm a scientist, too. Maybe I can help you find whatever it is you're looking for. I won't bite. Thanks. My name's Chakotay.
GEGEN: Gegen.
CHAKOTAY: All right, Gegen, let's talk about Earth.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Your call sounded urgent.
EMH: With good reason. I've analyzed the alien's DNA. There are forty seven genetic markers identical to those found in human DNA.
JANEWAY: That's more than coincidence.
EMH: I thought so too. I ran a search for those markers in Earth's paleo-ontological database. Take a look at this.
JANEWAY: Incredible!
EMH: That's one way of putting it.
JANEWAY: It says here that those markers appeared in hundred earth species, dating back tens of millions of. Their species evolved on Earth?
EMH: Apparently so. And from the look of it, you and he are distant cousins.
JANEWAY: I wonder how distant? Transfer yourself to Holodeck two. I think it's time we took a stroll through primeval history.

[Holodeck]
EMH: I've entered the genetic markers into the holo-database.
JANEWAY: Let's see if we can find our closet relative. Computer, analyze the genetic markers and search Earth's fossil record. Identify any ancestors common to both humans and the alien in sickbay.
COMPUTER: Life form found. (A small quadruped._
JANEWAY: Display.
COMPUTER: Genus Eryops. Devonian Era.
EMH: Eryops. This creature lived over four hundred million years ago and is thought to be the last common ancestor of cold blooded and warm blooded organisms.
JANEWAY: Yes, yes. Let's take the next step in out little stroll. Computer, what's the most highly evolved cold-blooded organism to develop from the Eryops?
COMPUTER: Genus Hadrosaur. Cretaceous Era.
JANEWAY: Display the life form.
JANEWAY: As I recall, the Hadrosaur vanished when a mass extinction occurred at the end of the Cretaceous period. What if the Hadrosaur didn't die off? What if some of them survived that extinction and continued to evolve?
EMH: I could well imagine this creature giving rise to a more complex life form. Certainly the building blocks are there. Bipedal, grasping hands.
JANEWAY: Computer, run a genome projection algorithm. If the Hadrosaur had continued to evolve over the last sixty five million years, extrapolate the most probable appearance.
COMPUTER: Extrapolation complete.
JANEWAY: Display life form.
EMH: That creature napping in Sickbay is a dinosaur.
JANEWAY: The question is, why have we never seen him in the Natural History museums?

[Gegen's Research Vessel]
CHAKOTAY: If a saurian species had developed a language and technology, you'd think they would have left something behind. But, what if it evolved on am isolated continent?
GEGEN: A land mass that was destroyed.
CHAKOTAY: Earth has been devastated by countless natural disasters over the course of it's history. Asteroids, volcanoes, earthquakes. All evidence of your race could be at the bottom of the ocean or under kilometers of rock.
GEGEN: Obviously not all of my people became extinct. Some of them must have developed spacefaring technology and left the planet.
CHAKOTAY: And ended up here, in the Delta Quadrant.
GEGEN: Our true origin on Earth lost over the eons, replaced by Doctrine, the myth that we were the First Race. Now you understand why I had to find your ship.
CHAKOTAY: Next time you might try a simple hello first.
GEGEN: Eyes open. I'm afraid I let my own prejudice get in the way. I was wary of you. We have very poor relations with non-saurian races. Mammals in particular are considered to be a lower life form, but I must admit I've never gotten to know one before.
CHAKOTAY: I hope I've made a good impression.
GEGEN: In fact, you have.
CHAKOTAY: Well I suggest we get back to Voyager. Your friend Veer is probably sick of the mammalian food by now.
GEGEN: I can't do that.
CHAKOTAY: Why not?
GEGEN: I've already made arrangements to meet my supporters on the Fourth Colony. They're waiting for us.
CHAKOTAY: Tell them we'll be late.
GEGEN: You don't understand what I'm up against. I'm being charged with heresy against Doctrine. You're my only evidence. If enough people see living proof of my theory, even the Ministry will be forced to acknowledge the truth. I can't let you go now. Not until it's over. I'm sorry.

[Science Lab]
PARIS: This should do the trick.
TUVOK: An apple.
PARIS: You said you wanted an organic test subject.
TUVOK: I was referring to a bio-cylinder. But the fruit will suffice.
PARIS: Let's give it a try.
TUVOK: Fascinating. This alien device is apparently pushing the apple slightly out of phase with our space-time continuum.
PARIS: A personal cloaking device.
TUVOK: More advanced than any cloak I have ever seen.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Kim.
KIM: I'm reading a massive spatial displacement dead ahead.
JANEWAY: Red alert.
KIM: We're being probed.
JANEWAY: Shields at maximum. Hail them.
KIM: No response. They're locking onto the ship with an energy beam. It's cutting right through our shields. It's some sort of transporter.
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: We've been beamed inside the alien vessel.
JANEWAY: We're losing power. Switch to auxiliary.
KIM: I'm locked out of command control. All systems are shutting down.
JANEWAY: Arm yourselves.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: Tuvok to Bridge. Captain Janeway, respond.
PARIS: Turbolifts are offline. Let's get to a Jefferies tube.
PARIS: Tuvok, I hope that's your stomach.
TUVOK: My tricorder's not working. There appears to be a dampening field
PARIS: Tuvok?
TUVOK: Go!
PARIS: I'm not going to leave you.
TUVOK: That's an order, Lieutenant.

[Bridge]
KIM: I can't get a single relay back online. Somehow they've locked us out of all primary systems.
JANEWAY: Let's get down to main Engineering. We can access the manual override from there, and
HALUK: Your vessel is under our control.

[Gegen's Research Vessel]
GEGEN: It's an automated message from the Ministry of Elders. It says that they've captured the Voyager. That if I don't return to the City Ship and face my accusers they'll destroy my evidence, kill everyone on board.
CHAKOTAY: What are you going to do?
GEGEN: I won't be responsible for those deaths. But if I go back now without my support, they'll discredit my theory, suppress the truth.
CHAKOTAY: That might be difficult with the evidence standing right beside you. They've taken my ship. It sounds to me like we're all on trial here.
GEGEN: I've just laid in a course for the City Ship.

[Ready room]
HALUK: We are looking for two of our own kind. One was found in your medical bay. Where is the other?
JANEWAY: I don't know. He took my First Officer and disappeared.
HALUK: Our scans indicate that your ship is alone. Where do you come from?
JANEWAY: If you want my co-operation, I suggest you release my vessel.
HALUK: You are non-indigenous beings. You have no rights under Doctrine. Where do you come from?
JANEWAY: Apparently, we're from the same place you are. Earth.
HALUK: I see that Gegen has begun spreading his lies.

[Engineering]
PARIS: Paris to Janeway.

[Ready room]
PARIS (voiceover): Captain, if you can hear me, I've got weapons control, and I've armed a full spread of torpedoes.
HALUK: Who's that?
JANEWAY: My helmsman. Sounds like he's about to blast a hole in the side of your ship. Lieutenant Paris, fire. You might want to hold onto something.

[Engineering]
COMPUTER: Launch protocols have been disrupted.
PARIS: Switch to auxiliary protocols.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Weapons systems are offline.
PARIS: How?
COMPUTER: Method unknown.
PARIS: Paris to Janeway.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
PARIS (voiceover): Captain, someone on the alien vessel detected my launch sequence. I don't know how they did it, but I'm completely locked out.
JANEWAY: Nice try, Tom.
HALUK: Haluk to Command. Voyager's Captain is proving uncooperative. I request an interrogation surgeon to assist with
VOTH (voiceover): That won't be necessary. Gegen is in custody. Remain in the Voyager and wait for further instructions.

[Voth City Ship]
ODALA: Professor Forra Gegen, you are accused of heresy against Doctrine. Do you wish to retract your claims regarding the Distant Origin theory?
GEGEN: I do not.
ODALA: Then we will proceed. Three months ago you circulated a study criticizing what you call resistance to truth, once again disputing Doctrine.
GEGEN: I apologize if I wrote anything that offended the Elders, but I never even mentioned the word Doctrine.
ODALA: You didn't have to. Your meaning was clear. For nearly a decade, you've used the Distant Origin theory to attack and undermine the guiding principles of our society.
GEGEN: Not so. I've been pursuing a scientific investigation. I'm not concerned at all with Doctrine.
ODALA: My point exactly. Your disregard for the effects of your casual theorizing is why you stand accused. You are reckless and irresponsible, and you are a destructive influence to our society. But it is not too late for you to redress the damage you have done. Disavow your claims, acknowledge your mistakes and this Ministry will show you leniency.
GEGEN: I'm sorry. I can't deny the evidence. The proof is standing right beside me.
ODALA: Proof. Really. Our scientists have analyzed your data. Their conclusion? These creatures are not related to us at all. The genetic similarities are a result of random convergence, nothing more.
CHAKOTAY: If I may speak? Voyager's database contains a complete fossil record of my planet. Your genetic markers appear not only in humans but in hundreds of species throughout our history. That's a lot of random convergence. If you'd take a look at the data
ODALA: We have. The data is not in question. Your interpretation is. Professor Gegen, I don't want to be here any more than you do, and frankly I would prefer not to be responsible for disgracing one of our most venerable scientists. All I ask is that you admit the possibility that your interpretation is wrong. Will you at least do that?
GEGEN: I will admit that there are still questions. The picture is incomplete. But I am certain of this. We are from the planet that these humans call Earth.
ODALA: There are those who disagree.
ODALA: Tova Veer, you are an accomplished young scientist. You were initiated into the Circle of Archeology with the highest of honors.
VEER: Yes, Minister.
ODALA: And you have been Professor Gegen's assistant for six years.
VEER: I have had that privilege.
ODALA: You are familiar, intimately involved with all of your mentor's research regarding the so-called Distant Origin theory?
VEER: That is correct.
ODALA: In your expert evaluation, what is the validity of the Professor's analysis.
VEER: It is flawed, Minister.
GEGEN: Veer!
ODALA: You're saying you and Gegen were mistaken?
VEER: Yes. I've reviewed all of his research, including data from the Voyager's computer. I've checked and rechecked the procedures. I now believe that we were overzealous. We saw an evolutionary connection when in fact there was none.
ODALA: Enthusiasm and passion are never wrong, Veer. Your only mistake was allowing them to distort your judgment. You may go. Professor Gegen, I will ask you again. Could you be mistaken?
GEGEN: What did you say to him. That you'd take away his honors if he didn't cooperate? That you'd send him to a detention colony?
ODALA: Could you be mistaken!
GEGEN: Did you threaten his family?
ODALA: Respond to the question!
GEGEN: No! Why should I? You've already made up your mind! This inquiry isn't about evidence and proof, it's about keeping you in that chair!
CHAKOTAY: Gegen!
GEGEN: It's about maintaining a myth that keeps the Ministry in power. You'd do anything to silence me. Well, it won't work. I'll never retract my claims. I'd rather go to prison than help you perpetuate ignorance.
ODALA: Your true scales are finally showing.
GEGEN: You're right, Minister. I was mistaken. I thought you might actually care about the truth, even if it called into question some of our deepest beliefs.
ODALA: We are not immigrants! I will not deny twenty million years of history and Doctrine just because one insignificant Saurian has a theory. One last time. Could you be mistaken?
CHAKOTAY: It's you who are mistaken, Minister.
ODALA: What?
CHAKOTAY: You accuse Gegen of having his objectivity clouded by wishful thinking, but aren't you guilty of the same charge?
ODALA: I am not on trial here.
CHAKOTAY: I understand, but in a way your beliefs are. How you think about yourselves, your place in the universe, that is on trial. And this isn't the first time.
ODALA: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: I've had the opportunity over the last few days to learn something about your culture, your great accomplishments. Consider the breakthrough into Transwarp, an incredible achievement, and yet, your ancient Doctrine predicted terrible disasters if it were even attempted. That held your race back for millennia, until someone took a chance and challenged that prediction. They succeeded, and your society entered a new chapter of exploration, and your Doctrine was changed accordingly. I know from the history of my own planet that change is difficult. New ideas are often greeted with skepticism, even fear. But sometimes those ideas are accepted, and when they are progress is made. Eyes are opened.
ODALA: When I open my eyes to this theory, what I see appalls me. I see my race fleeing your wretched planet, a group of pathetic refugees crawling and scratching their way across the galaxy, stumbling into this domain. I see a race with no birthright, no legacy. That is unacceptable.
CHAKOTAY: I see something very different, Minister. An ancient race of Saurians, probably the first intelligent life on Earth, surrounded by some of the most terrifying creatures that ever lived. And yet they thrived, developed language and culture and technology. And when the planet was threatened with disaster, they boldly launched themselves into space, crossed what must have seemed like unimaginable distances, facing the unknown every day. But somehow they stayed together, kept going, with the same courage that had served them before, until they reached this quadrant, where they laid the foundation of what has become the great Voth culture. Deny that past, and you deny the struggle and achievements of your ancestors. Deny your origins on Earth, and you deny your true heritage.
ODALA: Do you retract your claims?
GEGEN: No. I stand by them.
ODALA: Very well. It is my judgment that you will suffer the consequences of your obstinacy. Gegen, you are guilty of heresy against Doctrine, and will be placed on a detention colony. For as long as you breathe you will neither teach or engage in research. Your life as a scientist has ended.
GEGEN: As you wish.
ODALA: Chakotay of the Voyager starship. You, your captain and her crew will join Professor Gegen.
GEGEN: Why? You have nothing to gain by imprisoning them. Let them go.
ODALA: You will spend the remainder of your lives on a detention colony. Your ship will be destroyed.
GEGEN: Minister.
ODALA: You will surrender your vessel immediately and inform your crew that this judgment will be
GEGEN: Stop this, please!
ODALA: Are you offering me an alternative?
GEGEN: I have reconsidered, and I retract my claims regarding the Distant Origin theory. My analysis of the data was obviously flawed. I was mistaken.
ODALA: You are prepared to refute your work publicly before the Circles of Science?
GEGEN: Yes.
ODALA: You will then be assigned to another area of research. Surely paleontology has become tiresome to you after so many years. Perhaps metallurgical analysis would be a more rewarding vocation for you.
GEGEN: Perhaps.
ODALA: I am not unreasonable. You were drawn into this situation through no fault of your own. You are to be returned to your ship, where you will set course away from our territory. It would be in your best interest if I never saw you again.

[Gegen's Research Vessel]
GEGEN: I am not so good at chemistry. My career as a metallurgical scientist is likely to be undistinguished.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry.
GEGEN: I was foolish, arrogant, and I lost everything.
CHAKOTAY: You were courageous, just as the Voth have always been from the first time they left Earth.
GEGEN: And you, Chakotay, have been a colleague, a friend. I will not forget you.
CHAKOTAY: There's something else I hope you never forget.
GEGEN: Some day every Voth will see this as home.
CHAKOTAY: Some day. Eyes open.
GEGEN: Eyes open.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. Energize.

[Corridor - Deck six]
PARIS: Where are you going? You were doing great. You were in perfect position to deliver the death blow. All you had to do was follow through. Come on, let's try it again.
TORRES: Don't push me, Tom.
PARIS: I am not pushing you, I'm encouraging you.
TORRES: To do what?
PARIS: Try something new. This martial arts program is the best work out I've ever had. No, it's more than that. Working with a bat'leth is an art. You have to use your mind and body, your movements
TORRES: Look, you may find all of this Klingon stuff really fascinating, but I don't. I'm not going to waste my time trying to disembowel a bunch of holographic monsters. I only came down here because you tricked me into that stupid bet!
PARIS: Would you watch it? You could take somebody's head off with that thing.
TORRES: I have tried this, and now I am finished. Got it?
PARIS: Look, if you don't like the program, that's fine. But why do you always have to get so hostile?
TORRES: I am not hostile!
DAMMAR: Where am I?
PARIS: Paris to Bridge. We have an alien visitor on deck six.
DAMMAR: What do you want with me? Why have I been abducted?
TORRES: We didn't abduct you. You just appeared here. We had nothing to do with it.
DAMMAR: What is this place?
PARIS: You're on a starship called Voyager. Where were you before?
DAMMAR: My colony on Nyria Three. I was walking home, and then I was here.
PARIS: What's wrong?
DAMMAR: It's cold here, and too bright.
TORRES: Let us take you to Sickbay. Our Doctor can run some scans. Maybe we can get some answers.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've increased the temperature to forty five degrees Celsius, and the light level should be more comfortable for you now.
DAMMAR: Yes, thank you. You're very considerate. I hope you'll excuse my initial suspicion. This experience has been very unnerving.
JANEWAY: I'd feel the same way in your place.
TUVOK: Do your people possess technology which could have transported you here?
DAMMAR: Not that I know of. I've heard of other races that have it. Maybe of them brought be here, but I can't imagine why.
EMH: Please describe the physical sensation of your experience.
DAMMAR: First I felt light-headed, and then everything around me seemed to bend or ripple. There was a moment of blackness and I felt a curious sensation of insects crawling on my skin. And then I found myself on your ship.
EMH: Interesting. I'll run a microcellular scan for residual energy traces.
TUVOK: Can you tell us where your colony is located?
DAMMAR: We're on the third planet of the Nyrian system, a red giant star with a large cloud of interstellar dust just beyond the fifth planet.
JANEWAY: Doesn't sound like any system we've encountered. Unfortunately our knowledge of this area of space is limited. I'd like you to look at a star chart to see if you recognize any astronomical markers.
DAMMAR: Of course.
JANEWAY: In the meantime my crew has begun scanning the area for any clues about what happened to you.
EMH: Lieutenant, if you don't mind.
TUVOK: Where is Kes today?
EMH: I don't know. She's late for her duty shift. Computer, locate Kes.
COMPUTER: Kes is not on board Voyager.
JANEWAY: When did she leave?
COMPUTER: Eleven hundred thirty two hours.
JANEWAY: What time did our alien visitor come on board?
COMPUTER: Eleven hundred thirty two hours.

[Engineering]
KIM: There's nothing to indicate that any other ships have been in this area for weeks, and the nearest inhabited world is over ten light years away.
TORRES: Whoever or whatever did this had to leave some energy trace.
KIM: Internal sensors aren't showing anything unusual in the corridor where the Nyrian appeared, or Kes's last known location.
TORRES: Then let's concentrate on the time. Run a level one analysis on all sensor readings, internal and external, at the exact moment it happened.
KIM: I'll get it started. It may take a while.
TORRES: You don't think I'm hostile, do you?
KIM: I er, wouldn't describe you that way, no.
TORRES: I know I have a temper, but that doesn't mean I'm always hostile, does it?
KIM: No, of course not.
TORRES: I'm forthright, I speak my mind, but that's very different from being hostile.
KIM: Very different.
TORRES: And if someone described me that way, they'd be way off of the mark, wouldn't they.
KIM: Way off.
TORRES: Then why do you look like you're afraid for your life?
TORRES: What is this?
KIM: Looks like a surge of polaron particles.
TORRES: Localize the source, I'll try to increase the sensor resolution. Do you have anything yet? Harry? Torres to bridge. Ensign Kim just disappeared.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: And we just got another visitor.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, have you made any progress?
TUVOK: Increasing the shield strength has had no apparent effect. However, it

[Sickbay]
EMH: Welcome to Sickbay. Take a number.

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: In the last three hours we've lost twenty two of our people. According to the Nyrians, they've all showed up on their colony as though we're switching places.
PARIS: I went over our navigational charts with Dammar, but he's completely unfamiliar with this part of space. For all we know, that colony could be thousands of light years away.
CHAKOTAY: Any idea what might be causing these transfers?
TORRES: I'm not sure. Harry and I detected a surge of polaron particles right before he disappeared. They created a spatial distortion field around him but it collapsed as soon as he vanished.
PARIS: Could it have been some kind of spatial anomaly?
TORRES: It could have been anything. A naturally occurring phenomenon, like a wormhole of a subspace flow field, or a kind of technology like our transporters.
JANEWAY: All right, get back to your stations and keep looking. Confine the Nyrians to the cargo bays and post security details at every access point.
CHAKOTAY: In all fairness, Captain, they haven't been threatening in any way. They seem as puzzled by all this as we are.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, I don't care how they seem. All I care about is that I've had a knot in my stomach since the first Nyrian arrived. Something about this is wrong, I can smell it. Look at us, running around the ship, checking sensors and spinning theories, while the Nyrians slowly replace our crew. Consider this. There has been a consistent interval of nine minutes and twenty seconds between these exchanges. At that rate, our entire crew will be gone in eighteen hours. Tell me that doesn't put a knot in your stomach. You have your orders.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50912.4. It's been twelve hours since these mysterious exchanges began, and we still haven't discovered their cause. I've already lost over half my crew.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Cargo Bay two is almost full. We'll have to start converting the shuttle bays.
JANEWAY: Then do it. I want them where we can keep an eye on them.
CHAKOTAY: I'll have to reassign more crewmembers to security. Our ranks are getting a little thin.
JANEWAY: Shut down everything but the ship's essential functions. We'll be operating on a skeleton crew before long.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, you've developed a theory about what's happening?
TORRES: A Nyrian astrophysicist who arrived about an hour ago told me about some strange graviton fluctuations they detected at their colony. I ran some scans on this end and found the same thing.
JANEWAY: A wormhole?
TORRES: Possibly a baby one. And if I'm right, one end is opening intermittently inside Voyager. We could have past through it while it was forming and snagged on it somehow.
CHAKOTAY: Then how do we get it unsnagged?
TORRES: Now that I have this new information I'd like to have another talk with Rislan, the Nyrian scientist.
JANEWAY: Is Neelix still helping out with the new arrivals?
CHAKOTAY: I think he's in Cargo Bay two now.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Neelix.
NEELIX (voiceover): Neelix here, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'd like you to find one of the Nyrians who
NEELIX (voiceover): Neelix to Captain Janeway. I lost contact. What did you say?
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Neelix. The Captain's gone. We need you to find a Nyrian scientist called Rislan and get him to Engineering as soon as you can.
NEELIX (voiceover): Right away, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Do what you have to do to get some answers, B'Elanna.

[Cargo Bay two]
NEELIX: Excuse me, are you Doctor Rislan?
RISLAN: It's still too cold in here.
NEELIX: I'll adjust the environmental controls. Again. But I must ask you
RISLAN: And the air is too humid.
NEELIX: I'll take care of it right away, but I must ask you to go to our Engineering room. I believe you're urgently needed.
RISLAN: I trust it'll be suitably warm and dark there.
NEELIX: We'll make sure you're comfortable. A security guard will escort you.
SECURITY: Right away, sir.

[Bridge]
LANG: Commander, there's a problem with the internal sensors on deck four. It looks like a circuit relay malfunction.
CHAKOTAY: I can't spare anyone for repairs. You'll have to make do. How do you like your first day as Chief of Security, Ensign?
LANG: It's everything I dreamed it of, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Who says there's no room for advancement on this ship.
LANG: Another disappearance. It's Neelix.
CHAKOTAY: How many people does that leave us?
LANG: Forty.
CHAKOTAY: More than one hundred Nyrians. I want access to all systems restricted to authorized voice prints only. Seal off any part of the ship that we're not using and place security forcefields around sensitive areas. Warp core, armory, torpedo bays. And let's hope I'm just being paranoid.

[Engineering]
RISLAN: If you as me, a tetryon scan is a waste of time. A multispectral sweep would be much more useful.
TORRES: Actually, I didn't ask, and I've already initiated the tetryon scan.
RISLAN: You're the expert.
TORRES: Neutrinos, ionized hydrogen, theta band radiation.
RISLAN: Just what you'd expect to find in a wormhole.
TORRES: It's what we're not finding that I'm interested in. The scan shows no quantum level fluctuations whatsoever.
RISLAN: That's not so unusual.
TORRES: It's more than unusual, it's impossible. I don't think this is a wormhole at all.
RISLAN: Perhaps it's a subspace flow field then.
TORRES: I'm going to run a pattern analysis with the original data. No, definitely not a flow field. The spatial harmonics are incompatible. I don't think this is a natural phenomenon.
RISLAN: Don't move. I won't hurt you unless you force me to.
TORRES: Your people have been behind this all along. What are you doing?
RISLAN: Moving you to the head of the line.

[Habitat]
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, are you all right?
TORRES: Captain, the Nyrians are responsible for the exchanges. I think they have some kind of technology.
TORRES: What do they want with us?
JANEWAY: I don't know. They refuse to answer any questions.
KES: They've given us food, water and medical supplies. Everything but information.
TORRES: Where's the rest of the crew.
JANEWAY: In other compounds just like this one, scattered throughout the woods.
TORRES: This doesn't seem like a Nyrian colony. It's not warm enough or dark enough for them.
PARIS: Exactly. It's more like an idyllic version of Earth. As though it were created specifically for us.
TORRES: Do we have any idea what planet we're on?
JANEWAY: Not yet. I sent Tuvok to investigate the other compounds and see what he could find out. Until be gets back, all we have are unanswered questions.

[Bridge]
LANG: Decks eleven through fifteen are completely shut down. Most of the remaining crew are on security detail near the cargo and shuttle bays.
CHAKOTAY: What, all thirteen of them?
LANG: Twelve, sir.
GENNARO (voiceover): Crewman Gennaro to bridge. I'm in Engineering and I just found Ensign Molina. He's unconscious but okay.
CHAKOTAY: What about the Nyrian scientist he was watching?
GENNARO (voiceover): There's no sign of him, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Find him. That's a priority.
LANG: Where are you going?
CHAKOTAY: To have a talk with the Nyrians.

[Cargo Bay two]
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to all hands. Security alert. The Nyrians may be trying to take control of the ship. Everyone, get to the bridge or main Engineering and secure them against possible intruders.

[Jefferies tube]
DAMMAR: Second team, take control of weapons.

[Bridge]
LANG: Start by reinforcing the containment fields. Reroute emergency power. We've got to seal those doors.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: They're everywhere. They're even decrypting our access codes. The Nyrians obviously prepared for this before they got here. They must have tapped into our computer somehow, gotten enough information to plan this mission down to the letter.
CHAKOTAY: Larsen? Chakotay to anybody who's left. Please respond.
GENNARO (voiceover): Gennaro here sir.
CHAKOTAY: Anybody else? The two of us aren't going to win this, so we might as well make life as difficult for the Nyrians as we can. Sabotage everything you can get your hands on.
GENNARO (voiceover): Understood.
CHAKOTAY: Good luck.

[Bridge]
DAMMAR: What's our status?
RISLAN: We have shut off their security measures on all decks. We should have full computer access soon, but their navigational controls are not working.
DAMMAR: Not working?
RISLAN: There are two humans still moving through the ship. They seem intent on causing damage.
DAMMAR: Find them.
RISLAN: They're sabotaging the power systems. The anti-matter reactor's shutting down.
NYRIAN 1: What happened?
NYRAIN 2: This way.

[Cargo Bay two]
COMPUTER: Warning. Disabling lateral EPS relays may disrupt computer functions throughout the ship.
CHAKOTAY: Let's hope so. Chakotay to Gennaro. They're trying to delete the Doctor's program. Are you anywhere near Sickbay? Gennaro? Computer, how long ago did Crewman Gennaro leave the ship?
COMPUTER: Seven minutes and twenty seconds.

[Bridge]
RISLAN: I've located the last human. He's on the fifth deck.
DAMMAR: Send a patrol to stop him.
RISLAN: I already have.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: Activate Emergency Medical Holographic program.
EMH: Please state the nature. Hello?
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, over here.
EMH: Commander, what's happening?
CHAKOTAY: You're program's going to be deleted unless I can download you into the mobile emitter before I disappear, which should be any second now.
CHAKOTAY: Got it!
CHAKOTAY: All right. I know when to quit.

[Habitat]
EMH: I've never been completely cut off from the ship before. What if the emitter's power supply runs out?
TORRES: Let's hope we're not stuck here long enough to find out.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, what did you learn?
TUVOK: There are ten compounds like this one, spread over approximately four square kilometers. They are surrounded on all sides by wilderness.
TALEEN: Could I have your attention? Now that you've all arrived here safely I'd like to welcome you to your new home.
JANEWAY: I'm not particularly interested in being welcomed. Why have you brought us here?
TALEEN: Your vessel will be used to defend Nyrian acquisitions.
CHAKOTAY: Is this the way you operate, gradually changing places with the crew of a ship?
TALEEN: Ships, colonies, spacestations. We've found it's much more effective than warfare. We aren't a cruel people. We've tried to make this experience as painless as possible. And as you can see, we've gone to great lengths to create an environment in which you will be comfortable.
JANEWAY: Nonetheless, we are being held here against our will.
TALEEN: Well, I'm afraid that's unavoidable. But I think you'll be happy here. The food dispensers have been programmed with selections from your own computer files. We have even downloaded literature and entertainment from your cultural database.
CHAKOTAY: What happens if we try to leave this little paradise?
TALEEN: I think you'll find there's nowhere to go.
JANEWAY: We don't accept that. We will find a way out of here.
TALEEN: Captain, your lack of gratitude is unbecoming. You and your crew could have found yourselves somewhere far less hospitable.
CHAKOTAY: It's still a prison.
TALEEN: If you want to be miserable here, that is your choice. But since there's nothing you can do about your situation, I suggest you accept it. Gracefully. We're ready now.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, tell me about this wilderness you've found. How rugged is it? Can we walk out?
TUVOK: I don't believe so. In every direction I went, I encountered a natural barrier. A sheer cliff, an impassable river. These obstacles completely surround the colony.
CHAKOTAY: A perfectly isolated area. Doesn't that seem a bit convenient?
JANEWAY: This place does have an artificial quality. l wouldn't be surprised if the whole thing is holographic, and the wilderness was created to keep us from exploring too far.
KIM: Captain.
JARLATH: Sorry for the intrusion, but l wanted to welcome you. I'm Jarlath, your neighbor.
JANEWAY: Where did you come from?
JARLATH: My people live in the other environment, through that portal. It's quite different, more desert-like. This place is so green, but I'm sure it's suitable for you. The Nyrians undoubtedly had a good look through your databanks.
TUVOK: Were your people brought here by the Nyrians?
JARLATH: They took us one by one. Ah, is this what you eat?
JANEWAY: They took you from your colony?
JARLATH: They claimed not to know what was happening, and by the time we got suspicious, there were too many of them. We've been here ever since.
JANEWAY: Do you have any idea where here is?
JARLATH: No. Mmm, not bad. Would you be interested in trading for some of these? The last inhabitants of this environment had no concept of a barter system, but you strike me as a much more sophisticated group.
JANEWAY: If there were people here before us, maybe we could get out the same way.
JARLATH: Oh, l don't think you'd like their method of escape. They all died from a plague.
KIM: Captain, there must be some kind of forcefield here, but I can't find it.
JARLATH: Pretty well camouflaged, isn't it? It took are almost nine years to find the portal.
TORRES: How did you get it open?
JARLATH: Well, I, I have my ways.
JANEWAY: I consider that information a valuable commodity.
JARLATH: Well, I'd be happy to make a trade, but the portal only leads into our environment. You're welcome to visit, of course.
JANEWAY: There may be other portals, if you can show us how to find them.
JARLATH: I look forward to our collaboration.
TORRES: What do you see now?
EMH: Fascinating. Everything is glowing with it's own energy. Even the plants are emitting a faint thermal signature. It's really quite lovely.
TORRES: Aside from the esthetic consideration, how's your optical resolution?
PARIS: The Captain sent me down to get an update.
TORRES: Well, we're just about ready. I've reconfigured the Doctor's optical sensors and as soon as they're aligned he should be able to detect the microwave signature of the portals.
EMH: Then I can begin my new career as a tricorder.
TORRES: About the other day. I might have been a bit oversensitive about the Klingon program.
PARIS: Don't worry about it.
TORRES: That should just about do it. I think we can start scanning now.
PARIS: Good. I'll tell the Captain. Er, about the program. I didn't mean to push you.
TORRES: I know. You didn't, and I didn't mean to lash out at you like that.
EMH: A typical defensive reaction. Using an aggressive outburst as a shield against a perceived emotional threat.
PARIS: That says it, all right.
TORRES: Oh, that's very funny coming from you.
PARIS: And what is that supposed to mean?
TORRES: Well, you're hardly one to talk about being defensive.
PARIS: And why is that exactly?
TORRES: Well, you just pretend that nothing bothers you and then you turn everything into a joke.
EMH: That's a valid observation. Defense mechanisms come in many forms.
PARIS: That's ridiculous. I am an easy-going person, who is just trying to be friendly to someone who is obviously terrified of having a friend.
EMH: Fear of intimacy is a common indication of low self-esteem. Perhaps if you stopped to analyze the root cause, you might
TORRES: If you find it so difficult to be my friend, then why keep trying?
PARIS: That's a good question. I think I'll stop wasting my time.
NEELIX: I pulled a power cell and some relay circuits out of a food dispenser. And this little thing looks like some sort of capacitor.
TUVOK: It should do. If you can find another like this one, we'll be able to construct a second weapon.
CHAKOTAY: You're assuming the first one will work.
TUVOK: Yes.
NEELIX: I'll get on it right away. Maybe if I take apart the sonic shower assembly.
CHAKOTAY: I've got to give you credit, Tuvok, working on the fly with nothing but random parts, with no guide to follow. I never thought Vulcans had much of a knack for improvising.
TUVOK: Our circumstances seem to require a certain flexibility.
CHAKOTAY: You could say that. This reminds me of those survival classes they put us through at the Academy. Surprise tactical simulations, getting dropped off in the woods with no chance to prepare. They certainly taught you to live by your wits.
TUVOK: That was a lesson I had already learned. During the Rite of Tal'oth, I survived in the Vulcan desert for four months with a ritual blade as my only possession. After that, Starfleet training exercises seemed less of a challenge.
CHAKOTAY: I guess so.
TUVOK: This weapon is complete. When Mister Neelix returns with a second capacitor, I'll improvise another.
EMH: Lieutenant, I haven't seen any sign of a portal. Frankly, I'm getting tired of this.
TORRES: Holograms don't get tired. Keep looking.
JARLETH: We've been trying to get out of here for years. The closest I ever came was finding the portal between our two environments. I don't mean to be pessimistic, but I don't think there is a way out.
JANEWAY: There must be. We just have to keep looking.
JARLETH: Well, I know it's too early for you to accept this, but life here isn't so bad. Once we stopped trying to escape, we actually began enjoying ourselves.
TORRES: Captain, we've found something.
EMH: It's directly in front of me.
JANEWAY: Here?
EMH: Yes. Right there.
EMH: Well, if my scanning services are no longer required, I'll return to my medical duties.

[Access tunnel]
JANEWAY: We can cover more ground if we split up. Tuvok and I will take this direction. You three go that way. We'll meet back here in twenty minutes.
JARLETH: I don't think we're supposed to be in here.
PARIS: B'Elanna, over here.
TORRES: There's another one.
TORRES: Self-contained biospheres, every one of them different.

[Control room]
JANEWAY: It's definitely some kind of control station. I can bring up information, but I can't understand what it says.
TUVOK: If the Nyrians downloaded Voyager's cultural database, you may be able to tap into the translation algorithm.
JANEWAY: Oh, much better. The Federation habitat, population one hundred and forty eight. At least they haven't detected that anyone's missing.
JANEWAY: Here's another environment, and another.
JANEWAY: How many are there?
TUVOK: Captain, there's data here for ninety four different environments.
JANEWAY: They're holding thousands of prisoners. There's got to be something that'll tell us what the layout of this place is. Authorized access only.
TUVOK: I'll try to bypass their security codes.
JANEWAY: Good, I'm getting something. Incredible. Tuvok, we're on a ship.
TUVOK: We should attempt to locate the bridge.
JANEWAY: Well if there is one, I can't find it. There seems to be a more extensive control center four decks above us. Maybe I can access it from here. More security lock-outs.
TUVOK: We may need to disable the entire security sub-routine.

[Bridge]
TALEEN (screen): There's been an unauthorized access at one of the terminals. Some of the lifeforms have escaped their habitat.
DAMMAR: Find them and put them back.
TALEEN (screen): We are attempting to do that now. However, if they resist, stronger measures may become necessary.
DAMMAR: If they leave you no other alternative, you have the authorisation to use force.
DAMMAR: How soon can we go to warp? I want to get back there.
RISLAN: Just a few minutes.

[Access tunnel]
JARLETH: Let's go back.
PARIS: No, we've got to find the Captain and Tuvok. They might need our help.
JARLETH: We have to help ourselves. This is our chance to get back into our own environments.
TORRES: If you want to go, then go. We're not leaving them behind.
NYRIAN GUARD: Don't move.
JARLETH: I surrender. I'm sorry. It wasn't my idea. They made me come along. They, er, went around that corner.
NYRIAN GUARD: Follow them.

[Control room]
TUVOK: He just activated a translocator control. One lifeform was sent from an access tunnel to the biosphere adjacent to ours.
JANEWAY: That must have been Jarleth. This translocator is what the Nyrians used to get on our ship.
TUVOK: Then we should be able to use the same method to return to Voyager.
JANEWAY: Assuming we can figure out how to use it.

[Bridge]
RISLAN: We're getting an incoming message from the biosphere vessel. Audio only.
TALEEN (voiceover): Taleen to Dammar. Some of the lifeforms have accessed the control system. They have weapons. We need reinforcements.
DAMMAR: We're on our way to you now. Increase speed to maximum velocity. Take us close enough to translocate our entire security force at once.
RISLAN: Yes, sir.

[Access tunnel]
PARIS: Something's wrong with the phaser.
TORRES: Power cells probably running out. These aren't exactly Starfleet issue.
PARIS: We've got to get out of these tunnels. There must be somewhere to hide in one of these habitats.
TORRES: Tom, I think I've found one. Here is it.
TORRES: Remember how we had to warm up the ship for the Nyrians?
PARIS: This is the last place they'd want to follow us.
TALEEN: Stop!
TALEEN: Follow them. That's an order.

[Control room]
TUVOK: This translocator has an extremely long range. Over ten light years.
JANEWAY: Great distances must limit it's capacity. That's why the Nyrians could only send one person to Voyager at a time and bring one of us here.
TUVOK: Their method has the added advantage of appearing innocent, at least in the beginning.
JANEWAY: I can't find the command pathways to get the system operative, and I don't imagine we have much longer before they find us.

[Argala Habitat]
TORRES: Maybe coming in here wasn't such a good idea.
PARIS: Let's hope it's worse for them than it is for us.
TORRES: Careful. That phaser's just about dead.
TORRES: They can't last much longer. We've just got to stay one step ahead of them.
PARIS: We don't want to get too far away from the portal. Maybe we should find a place to hide.
TORRES: Let me see the phaser. My hands are completely numb.
PARIS: Here. I would have thought all that hot Klingon blood would have kept you warm.
TORRES: Shows how much you know about Klingons. They have much less tolerance for the cold than humans do.
PARIS: Really? I thought that was Cardassians.
TORRES: No, they just complain about it more.
PARIS: Better?
TORRES: I think that'll amplify the power cell enough for one more shot.
PARIS: B'Elanna!
PARIS: Nice shot. Now let's get out of here before we freeze to death.

[Control room]
JANEWAY: I've got the basic operation down, but I can't quite figure out how to lock on to a target. Can you access anything that might function like our targeting scanners?
TUVOK: There are biosensors contained within the monitoring programs of each habitat. Perhaps
JANEWAY: What is it?
TUVOK: I'm detecting human lifeforms in one of the environments. The Argala habitat.
JANEWAY: Tom and B'Elanna.
TUVOK: Possibly. They may have taken refuge there to hide from the Nyrians.
JANEWAY: Doesn't look very inviting, does it.
TUVOK: The temperature is minus twenty degrees Celsius.
JANEWAY: They can't last long in that. We've got to get them out.
TUVOK: Captain, there's a ship approaching at high warp. It's Voyager.
JANEWAY: If the Nyrians are bringing in reinforcements, we're in trouble. Keep working on those bioscanners.

[Argala Habitat]
TORRES: I didn't think we were this far from the portal. I don't think I can go any farther.
PARIS: You have to keep moving.
TORRES: Oh, I'm so sleepy.
PARIS: No, B'Elanna, get up.
TORRES: No, you go on. I'm just going to rest here.
PARIS: If you do that, you'll die.
TORRES: No, I'll be fine. I just have to close my eyes for a minute.
PARIS: Oh no, I am not going to let you do this. On your feet now, Torres. That's an order.
TORRES: You can't give me orders. We're the same rank.
PARIS: I am a bridge officer, and I have seniority.
TORRES: Oh yeah, by two days!
PARIS: On your feet, now! Come on, you've been wanting to take a swing at me for days. Now's your chance.
TORRES: You're just trying to get me moving.
PARIS: You will keep moving. Or do I have to throw you over my shoulder and carry you out?
TORRES: Don't even try it.
DAMMAR: Where are we?
RISLAN: The Argala habitat, sir.
DAMMAR: Get us out of here. Where's the portal?
DAMMAR: You did this!
JANEWAY: I've taken control of your translocation system. My tactical officer is standing by, waiting for my next order.
DAMMAR: And, and what would that be?
JANEWAY: That depends on you. Surrender my ship and release all the prisoners here.
DAMMAR: Unacceptable.
JANEWAY: All right. You can stay where you are and greet your fellow crewmembers as we translocate them here to join you.
RISLAN: And if we do surrender?
JANEWAY: We'll find you a nice warm habitat where you'll be comfortable while we contact the native worlds of your prisoners and arrange for their return. And once we've disabled your translocator, you'll be free to go. I'm sorry you don't wish to be reasonable. Mister Tuvok, get me out of here and prepare to
DAMMAR: No! Wait!
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 50929.6. The Nyrians have surrendered Voyager, and my crew is safely back on board. The former prisoners on the habitat vessel have contacted their native worlds, and are waiting to be taken home.

[Holodeck - Paxau Resort]
TORRES: Nice day.
PARIS: Beautiful.
TORRES: Things were pretty chilly there for a while.
PARIS: I guess they were.
TORRES: It feels good to be warm again.
PARIS: Yeah, it sure does.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Where are you headed?
TORRES: The bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Mind if I walk with you?
TORRES: Not at all.
CHAKOTAY: So, how's it going?
TORRES: Not bad, I guess.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok still giving you a hard time?
TORRES: No more than usual.
CHAKOTAY: I don't know about you, but when I think about spending seventy years on the same ship with that guy, it gives me a headache. I get the impression a lot of the crew agrees with me. Maquis and Starfleet.

[Turbolift]
CHAKOTAY: Bridge. So, what do you think?
TORRES: About what?
CHAKOTAY: About what I've been saying. That a lot of the crew aren't too happy with our Chief of Security. And for that matter, I don't think Captain Janeway's winning any popularity contests either. Don't you agree?
TORRES: Why do I get the feeling that you're testing me?
CHAKOTAY: Let's just say I'm interested in your opinion.
TORRES: Why?
CHAKOTAY: You're a good officer. I like you. And I wouldn't want to see you get hurt.
TORRES: Computer, halt turbolift. Look, what's this all about?
CHAKOTAY: There're going to be some changes around here. All of the Maquis are in line, and about twenty five of the Starfleet crew are with us.
TORRES: Are you saying there's going to be a mutiny?
CHAKOTAY: And when the shooting starts, I'm going to need to know which side you're on.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Well, Commander, Voyager's all yours.
CHAKOTAY: There's a first time for everything, I guess. Don't worry, Captain, I'll keep your ship safe and sound.
JANEWAY: I'm sure you will.
PARIS (voiceover): Shuttlebay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Mister Paris.
PARIS (voiceover): The shuttle's ready to go whenever you are.
JANEWAY: On my way.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I've been thinking. Are you sure you don't want to take Lieutenant Tuvok with you, just in case the Rukani turn out to be less friendly than they seem?
TUVOK: I assure you, Commander. I have made thorough preparations for the Captain's safety during her away mission. You, on the other hand, are still adapting to your duties as First Officer. Under the circumstances, I believe my time will be better spent assisting you in your effort to justify the trust the Captain has placed in you.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your concern for my safety, Mister Chakotay, but Tuvok's right. Lieutenant Paris and I will be just fine. I'll see you in twenty four hours.
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant, I want you to keep close tabs on the Captain's shuttle. Let's make sure she doesn't run into any trouble.
TUVOK: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Ensign, let's shut down those transporters and start that diagnostic we've been putting off.
KIM: Sir, are you sure we shouldn't wait for the Captain to get back?
TUVOK: Ensign Kim, you have been given a direct order. Do as the Commander tells you.
KIM: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Have you finished upgrading the internal sensors, Ensign?
TORRES: I'm working on it, sir.
CHAKOTAY: I hope so.
CHAKOTAY: Wait here.
TUVOK: Is something wrong, sir?
CHAKOTAY: No, it's just tomorrow's duty roster.
TUVOK: Sir, Captain Janeway's shuttle has gone to warp.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, Tuvok. Chakotay to all hands. Let's do it.
TUVOK: Sir?
KIM: Red alert! Security to the Bridge!
CHAKOTAY: You're wasting your time, Harry. All my teams have taken control of Security, Engineering and all key systems.
KIM: You'll never get away with this. People will fight back.
CHAKOTAY: That's going to be a little difficult. All your off-duty Starfleet friends have been locked down in quarters.
CHAKOTAY: I guess you've made your choice.
JONAS (voiceover): Jonas to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
JONAS (voiceover): They're putting up a fight on deck two. We could use some help.
CHAKOTAY: Carlson, O'Donnell, get these people to the brig. Ayala, take the conn and move us out of com range of Janeway's shuttle. You're with me.

[Turbolift]
CHAKOTAY: Deck two. Thanks for watching my back in there.
TORRES: Right.
CHAKOTAY: Are you okay?
TORRES: To tell you the truth, shooting Harry got me a little rattled.
CHAKOTAY: He's only stunned. We're not going to kill anybody today, unless it's absolutely necessary. Just stay close.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Stay low.
TORRES: They've got us pinned down.
CHAKOTAY: We'll just have to shoot our way past them. Ready?
TORRES: Seska!
SESKA: It's just like old times, isn't it?
CHAKOTAY: Thanks for the help.
SESKA: We've got to get moving. Some of Janeway's people are trying to set up a command center in the mess hall.

[Mess hall]
SESKA: I wouldn't do that if I were you. This phaser's set on wide beam. I could take you all in one shot.
CHAKOTAY: Everybody, drop your weapons.
NEELIX: You heard the man. Drop your weapons. Don't look so surprised, Commander. I know a winner when I see one. I'm with you.
SESKA: Do you want me to shoot him?
CHAKOTAY: We're still going to need a cook. Chakotay to Engineering. What's your status?
CREWMAN (voiceover): Engineering is secure.
CHAKOTAY: Transporter rooms one and two, status.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Transporter room one is under control.
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Transporter room two is secure.
CHAKOTAY: Shuttlebay, status.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Shuttlebay is secured, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I'll take care of the prisoners here. You two get some help and start rounding up the personnel that are still locked down in quarters. Bring them to Cargo Bay one.
SESKA: We did it.
CHAKOTAY: Just like old times.

[Corridor]
SESKA: You did a good job today.
TORRES: Thanks.
SESKA: Just make sure you keep it up.
TORRES: What's that supposed to mean?
SESKA: It means I'm not as easy to win over as Chakotay. Come on! Let's go.
SESKA: Wait here.

[Kes's quarters]
KES: Seska, what's going on?
SESKA: Move it.
KES: Why are we being treated like prisoners?
SESKA: No talking.

[Cargo bay]
SESKA: Over there, with the rest of them.
KES: What are you going to do with us?
SESKA: I said, no talking!
TORRES: Hey, hey, hey. Take it easy.
SESKA: It told you it was a mistake letting Starfleet people in on this.
CHAKOTAY: Now is not the time, Seska. Take a good look around you. You're under armed guard. You may also notice that your senior officers aren't here. They're in the brig. They'll be put off the ship at the first habitable planet we come to. All except Janeway and Paris, who will arrive at their rendezvous coordinates to find that Voyager's not there. In short, I've taken control of the ship. I don't blame any of you for the mistakes of your leaders, so I'm giving you a choice. You can be put off the ship with your superiors or you can do what Neelix and some of your other crew members have already done and join me. If you do, you'll be part of a crew that's going to do whatever it takes to get us home as fast as possible. Under my command, we won't let almighty Federation principles get in the way of opportunities the way Janeway did when she destroyed the array that could have gotten us home. And we won't be wasting precious time stopping to investigate every insignificant anomaly that we come across. What we will do is use any means necessary to acquire technology that can shorten our journey. To hell with Starfleet regulations. You have fifteen minutes to make up your minds.
PARIS: B'Elanna, what's going on here?
TORRES: Computer, freeze program. Are you in the habit of just walking in on people's private holodeck time?
PARIS: Well, it's not as if I caught you dancing the rumba with a naked Bolian. We had a lunch date, remember?
TORRES: Is it lunch time already? I must have lost track of the time.
PARIS: Well, I expected to find you shooting pool at Sandrine's, not hanging out with Seska. What sort of program is this anyway?
TORRES: It's really something. I was doing a routine purge of the database, you know, taking out old files that were taking up space, and I found this holonovel. It's a kind of 'what if' story, all about a Maquis mutiny. It's completely compelling and believable. I guess it's because it's all about us.
PARIS: Who wrote it?
TORRES: Now, that is the big mystery. Whoever the author is has gone to a lot of trouble to keep his identity a secret. It's been encrypted.
PARIS: Why do you suppose someone would try so hard to be anonymous?
TORRES: Well, think about it. Whoever plays this program takes on the role of a Starfleet security officer who gets approached by Chakotay to help the Maquis take over the ship. I mean, it's pretty inflammatory.
PARIS: You think we should tell the Captain?
TORRES: Probably.
PARIS: It would be pretty hard for us to give her a full report if we don't know how the story ends.
TORRES: Excellent point.
PARIS: Great. Can you reset it for me?
TORRES: You? I was just getting to the good part.
PARIS: Oh, come on, B'Elanna. Be a sport. I've got to be back on duty in less than an hour. Besides, isn't half the fun of a holonovel having someone to talk it over with?
TORRES: All right. You owe me one.

[Holographic Corridor]
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Where are you headed?
PARIS: The bridge.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Mind if I walk with you?
PARIS: I was kind of hoping you would.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: So, how's it going?
PARIS: Couldn't be better.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Tuvok still giving you a hard time?
PARIS: Oh, doesn't he always?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I don't know about you, but when I think about spending seventy years on the same ship with that guy, it gives me a headache.
PARIS: Not to mention an upset stomach.

[Holographic Turbolift]
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Bridge.
PARIS: I hear you're planning a mutiny.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Computer, halt turbolift. Who told you that?
PARIS: Let's just say there are rumors.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Yeah, well, don't believe everything you hear.
PARIS: Of course not. I just wanted you to know that whatever happens, I'm with you.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Computer, resume turbolift.
PARIS: I'm serious. Just tell me what you want me to do.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: All right, Ensign, here it is. As soon as the Captain leaves to meet the Rukani, I want you to put all crew quarters on lock-down. I'll ask you if you've finished upgrading the internal sensors. If you say yes, I'll know we're ready to go.
PARIS: I understand.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I'm watching you. No tricks.

[Holographic Bridge]
HOLO-TUVOK: We are entering the Rukani sector, Commander.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Inform the Captain.
HOLO-TUVOK: Aye, sir.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Well, Commander, Voyager's all yours.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: There's a first time for everything, I guess. Don't worry, Captain. I'll keep your ship safe and sound.
HOLO-JANEWAY: I'm sure you will.
HOLO-PARIS (voiceover): Shuttlebay to Captain Janeway.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Go ahead, Mister Paris.
HOLO-PARIS (voiceover): The shuttle's ready to go whenever you are.
HOLO-JANEWAY: On my way.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Captain, I've been thinking. Are you sure you don't want to take Lieutenant Tuvok with you, just in case the Rukani turn out to be less friendly than they seem?
HOLO-TUVOK: I assure you, Commander. I have made thorough preparations for the Captain's safety during her away mission. You, on the other hand, are still adapting to your duties as First Officer. Under the circumstances, I believe my time will be better spent assisting you in your effort to justify the trust the Captain has placed in you.
HOLO-JANEWAY: I appreciate your concern for my safety, Mister Chakotay, but Tuvok's right. Lieutenant Paris and I will be just fine. I'll see you in twenty four hours.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant, I want you to keep close tabs on the Captain's shuttle. Let's make sure she doesn't run into any trouble.
HOLO-TUVOK: Aye, sir.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Ensign, let's shut down the transporters and start that diagnostic we've been putting off.
HOLO-KIM: Sir, are you sure we shouldn't wait for the Captain to get back?
HOLO-TUVOK: Ensign Kim, you have been given a direct order. Do as the Commander tells you.
HOLO-KIM: Aye, sir.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Have you finished upgrading the internal sensors?
PARIS: Yes, sir.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I hope so.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Wait here.
HOLO-TUVOK: Is something wrong, sir?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: No, it's just tomorrow's duty roster.
HOLO-TUVOK: The Captain's shuttle has gone to warp.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Thank you, Tuvok. Chakotay to all hands. Let's do it.
HOLO-TUVOK: Sir?
PARIS: Tuvok, get down!
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I guess you've made your choice.
PARIS: It's not over yet, Chakotay.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Take them all to the brig.

[Holographic Brig]
PARIS: Sir, we have to do something.
HOLO-TUVOK: What did you have in mind, Ensign?
PARIS: Escape. Retake the ship.
HOLO-TUVOK: We will indeed attempt to do so when the time is right.
PARIS: What about trying it now?
HOLO-TUVOK: Such a foolhardy proposal suggests a lack of proper training. Need I remind you that we are confined behind an electrostatic forcefield?
PARIS: We can't just sit here and do nothing.
TUVOK: We are hardly doing nothing. We are observing the enemy, watching for any discernible patterns in their procedures, looking for any weakness in their defenses.
PARIS: How long is this observing business going to take? It's been over an hour already. I'm getting bored.
HOLO-TUVOK: I am not concerned with your amusement, Ensign. We are in a crisis situation, and we will follow procedure. And procedure dictates that we wait for the right opportunity to attempt an escape, whether it takes an hour or a week.
PARIS: A week? Who wrote this stuff?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Hold Kim and Tuvok here. Bring the rest of them to Cargo bay one.
PARIS: Enjoy the wait.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: And we won't be wasting precious time stopping to investigate every insignificant anomaly we come across. What we will do is use any means necessary to acquire technology that can shorten our journey. To hell with Starfleet regulations. You have fifteen minutes to make up your minds.
PARIS: I don't need fifteen minutes. I'm with you right now.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: So by the time I got around to joining Chakotay's little band of rebels
TORRES: Ah ha.
PARIS: He was so suspicious of my motives that he assigned me to lubricate the warp plasma manifolds.
TORRES: You should have tried going along with the mutiny from the beginning. It's much more fun.
PARIS: Oh, believe me, next time I will.
NEELIX: I couldn't help overhearing. You two are talking about the new holonovel. I tried sending an encoded message to Captain Janeway's shuttle to warn her about the mutiny. But Chakotay caught me, phasered me, and the program reset. Next time, I'm going to pretend to go along with the conspirators and then stage a counterstrike.
PARIS: I thought we were going to keep this our little secret.
TORRES: Don't look at me. I didn't tell him.
NEELIX: I heard about it from the Doctor.
PARIS: The Doctor?
TORRES: I may have let it slip while I was running his weekly diagnostic.
PARIS: Oh, great. Who else knows about it?
NEELIX: Don't worry about me. My lips are sealed.
KIM: So what's this Ayala tells me about a new holonovel?
PARIS: Get in line, Harry. Lieutenant Paris's personal log: Stardate 50953.4. I've decided to take B'Elanna's advice and replay the holonovel, this time as a full-fledged member of Chakotay's team of mutineers. I hope it turns out better than before.

[Holographic Bridge]
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Where the hell are those warp engines?
HOLO-SESKA: They're still offline. We can't seem to get the dilithium matrix reinitialized.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: It's been two days.
HOLO-SESKA: Don't worry. B'Elanna's on it.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Run a full security sweep. Something tells me there's more to this engine problem than a faulty dilithium matrix.
PARIS: Do you think we've got a saboteur on board?
HOLO-SESKA: There's a ship approaching, bearing two one six mark three three. It's Janeway's shuttle.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Open a channel. Hello, Kathryn. How did it go with the Rukani?
HOLO-JANEWAY (screen): You're out of uniform, Commander.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: There have been a few changes since you've been gone.
HOLO-JANEWAY (screen): So I've heard. You think I don't have any friends left on Voyager?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Apparently you do. But I'll find them.
HOLO-JANEWAY (screen): And then what? Will you kill them or just put them off the ship?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Nobody has to die here today.
HOLO-JANEWAY (screen): I thought you were a man of your word, Chakotay. I guess I was mistaken.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry it had to come to this. But the crew believes I can get them home faster than you can.
HOLO-PARIS (screen): That's going to be a little difficult without warp engines, isn't it?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Our warp drive may be temporarily offline, but our weapons systems are fully operational.
PARIS: They're powering phasers.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, don't try to be a hero. I've been reasonable so far. I'll allow you to keep the shuttle. I'll even transport you some extra provisions. But if you don't stand down, I will destroy your shuttle.
HOLO-JANEWAY (screen): You've just threatened the wrong woman, Chakotay.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: What does she think she's going to accomplish?
HOLO-SESKA: We can obliterate them in one shot.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Not till I give the order. Reopen a channel.
PARIS: I don't know how, but they've disabled our shields. We're completely vulnerable.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Target their warp core and fire.
HOLO-SESKA: I always said Janeway was a fool.
COMPUTER: Intruder alert on deck eight.
PARIS: It's Paris and Janeway.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Janeway's no fool. She tricked us into destroying her shuttle, then transported over while the shields were down.
HOLO-SESKA: She's trying to free the prisoners.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: You've got the bridge. You're with me.

[Holographic Brig]
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Get away from that panel!
HOLO-PARIS: Drop it.

[Holodeck]
PARIS: Computer, resume program.
COMPUTER: The holographic simulation has ended.
PARIS: Well, start it up again, right where it left off.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
PARIS: Why not?
COMPUTER: Additional narrative parameters have not been programmed.
PARIS: Are you saying there's no more story?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
PARIS: This is someone's idea of a practical joke, right?
COMPUTER: Please rephrase the question.
TORRES: There. I've bypassed the security override. Try it now.
PARIS: Computer, identify the author of holographic program entitled Insurrection Alpha.
COMPUTER: That information is classified.
TORRES: I've tried every decryption protocol I can think of. Whoever wrote this is good.
PARIS: Not to mention sadistic. I can't believe we've been left hanging like this.
NEELIX: Any luck? Me neither. I've discreetly questioned everybody I thought I could trust. Either nobody knows or nobody's talking.
PARIS: Remember the good old days when it was impossible to keep a secret on a ship this small?

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Well, if that takes care of our official agenda, there's another matter I'd like to discuss. Commander Chakotay informs me there's a new holonovel that's become quite popular among the crew.
CHAKOTAY: It's been accessed forty seven times by thirty three different crew members.
JANEWAY: I don't suppose anyone here is familiar with what we're talking about?
TORRES: Er, actually, er, Captain, I'm the one who found it on the auxiliary database.
PARIS: I've been running it too.
CHAKOTAY: Anybody else?
JANEWAY: I understand that the author of this little opus has chosen to remain anonymous. Perhaps because of the controversial nature of the story, which depicts Commander Chakotay as the leader of a Maquis mutiny. Well, now that the cat's out of the bag, I want each of you to talk to your staff and find out who our anonymous author is.
TUVOK: That won't be necessary, Captain. I am the author of the program in question.
PARIS: You, Tuvok?
JANEWAY: I never knew you had literary aspirations.
NEELIX: Not to mention talent. What a story!
TUVOK: I'm afraid there's been a misunderstanding. The program is not a holonovel. It is a tactical training scenario. When you first invited the Maquis to join our crew, I believed that mutiny was a very real possibility. With that in mind, I began to write a training program for junior security officers to prepare them for such an eventuality.
PARIS: But you never finished it?
TUVOK: No. As the two crews began to work together, I concluded that the threat of an insurrection was increasingly unlikely. I realized the program itself might exacerbate the very conflict I sought to avoid. Therefore, I deleted the scenario, or so I believed.
JANEWAY: Apparently you didn't account for B'Elanna's exceptional computer skills.
TUVOK: Nor her somewhat excessive curiosity. I apologize for my carelessness, Captain.
PARIS: Forget your carelessness. What you should be apologizing for is leaving us all hanging by a thread. You've got to finish the story.
TUVOK: On the contrary, Mister Paris. The program has the potential to incite animosity among the crew and must be permanently deleted. I have no doubt the captain concurs.
JANEWAY: With all due respect, Mister Tuvok, loosen up. You may have intended this program to be a tactical training tool, but it looks to me like it's turned into a bit of harmless fun.
TUVOK: As the Captain of this ship, surely you
JANEWAY: I'm more than just a Captain. I'm the leader of a community, and communities need entertainment, culture, creative outlets. Since we're not exactly privy to every new piece of music or holonovel that's written back home, I think it's only natural that we should start creating our own.
CHAKOTAY: Besides, Tuvok, if the crew doesn't get an ending, you may have a real mutiny on your hands.
PARIS: If Tuvok doesn't want to finish the story, I volunteer.
TORRES: Oh?
PARIS: Well, I've always wanted to write a holonovel. I think I could make it pretty exciting.
JANEWAY: Good. Then it's settled. I for one can't wait to see if Captain Janeway manages to outwit the conspirators.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: Well, if it isn't Mister Anonymous. Come to check up on your replacement?
TUVOK: Since the captain insists on allowing you to proceed with this frivolous exercise, I thought you might benefit from the original probability studies I conducted before beginning the scenario.
PARIS: Well, thanks, Tuvok, but I don't need any probability studies. I'm just sort of making it up as I go along.
TUVOK: Indeed. I'd be curious to know what you've made up thus far.
PARIS: Well, I was thinking, Paris and Janeway retake the ship, and then she decides to execute all the conspirators.
TUVOK: That is an entirely implausible plot development. Captain Janeway would never behave in such an inhumane manner.
PARIS: This isn't real life, Tuvok. It's fiction. Don't get so caught up in logic.
TUVOK: Logic is an integral part of narrative structure. According to the Dictates of Poetics by T'hain of Vulcan, a character's actions must flow inexorably from his or her established traits.
PARIS: Well, I don't know anything about T'hain, but I do know what makes an interesting story, and that's unexpected plot twists.
TUVOK: If you think I will allow you to turn this program into a parody, you are sorely mistaken.
PARIS: Are you saying that you're going to finish it yourself?
TORRES: Artistic differences?
TUVOK: I would hardly call Mister Paris's ideas artistic.
PARIS: Apparently, my instincts don't comply with the Vulcan Dictates of Poetics.
TORRES: Well, I've got a couple of suggestions that might help. Now, up until now the story's been nothing but action, which is fine. But what it needs is a little heart, a little emotion.
TUVOK: We are not writing a romance novel, Lieutenant.
PARIS: We?
TUVOK: I've decided that your efforts would benefit from my collaboration.
PARIS: Oh, really?
TORRES: Listen, I don't care which one of you is writing this thing. All I'm saying is that there is room in every good story for a little bit of passion.
PARIS: You know, maybe you're on to something. I could add a steamy love scene between the Starfleet conn officer and the Maquis engineer.
TORRES: Oh, that's realistic.
NEELIX: How about a fresh pot of coffee to keep those creative juices flowing, eh?
PARIS: Thanks, Neelix.
NEELIX: While I'm here.
PARIS: Let me guess. You have a suggestion to make.
NEELIX: Of course not. I would never presume to interfere in the creative process. It's more of a comment, really, about the Neelix character.
TUVOK: How surprising.
JANEWAY: He would never betray the Captain the way he does in that story. No offense, Mister Vulcan, but I don't think you understand my character very well.
PARIS: Tuvok, did you forget to follow the Dictates of Poetics?
TUVOK: Perhaps we should find someplace quieter to work.
PARIS: Now, that's the first intelligent suggestion I've heard all evening.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: I believe our first step should be to create a carefully constructed outline of the remaining chapters.
PARIS: I told you, Tuvok. I'm just making it up as I go.
TUVOK: We cannot proceed without a carefully constructed outline.
PARIS: There you go with that we stuff again. I don't remember agreeing to let you help me.
TUVOK: Need I remind you that it was I who first began the scenario?
PARIS: And you think I'm compromising your creative vision?
TUVOK: In so many words, yes. And it is my duty to ensure that ship security is not compromised by your creative vision.
PARIS: You had your chance to finish the story, and you wanted to delete it.
TUVOK: True, but since that is no longer an option, I am now exercising my prerogative as the original author.
PARIS: Look, Tuvok, for the last time, I don't need any help.

[Holodeck]
EMH: Ah, there you are. I have several brilliant ideas for upcoming chapters of your holonovel, as well as a list of revisions and dialogue changes that I believe will improve the earlier installments.
PARIS: I don't believe this.
EMH: No thanks are necessary. In addition, I'm prepared to offer my expertise in the creation of holographic mise-en-scene.
TUVOK: Computer, override the EMH program's autonomous controls and transfer him back to Sickbay.
EMH: Now, wait just a min
PARIS: Thanks, Tuvok. Now that I think about it, I'll take it from here.
TUVOK: You may find that difficult, since I am the only one who can make additions to the program.
PARIS: All right, Tuvok. You win. We'll finish the story together.
TUVOK: That is a very rational decision, Mister Paris. Computer, reinitiate the holographic program entitled Insurrection Alpha, security clearance Tuvok four seven seven four.
COMPUTER: The program has been reinitiated.
PARIS: The first thing we're going to change is that title.
TUVOK: Reformat the holo-matrix for the addition of new interactive algorithms.
COMPUTER: The holo-matrix has been formatted.
TUVOK: Reopen the narrative parameters file.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, we just lost power in both transporter rooms. The com went down, and the holodeck systems are completely scrambled.

[Holographic Brig]
PARIS: What are we doing in the brig?
TUVOK: I have no idea. We haven't given the computer instructions to create a location yet.
HOLO-SESKA: Hello, Tuvok. I've been expecting you. If you can see me, you've obviously reopened the narrative parameters file of the tactical scenario you've been working on.
TUVOK: How do you know that? You're a hologram.
HOLO-SESKA: That's right. A holographic representation of Seska, one of the Maquis shipmates you betrayed. I would have thought all that time you spent spying on us might have given you a little more insight into the Maquis, but after looking over what you've already written, I can see you need a little help. So I've created this representation of myself, to guide you through the rest of the program.
TUVOK: There is no more program.
HOLO-SESKA: There is now. I finished writing it for you, with a few revisions of my own.
PARIS: Revisions?
HOLO-SESKA: To start with, the holodeck is now sealed. Your friends will find it very difficult to get you out of here. And the safety protocols are off, which means if I shoot you, and I am going to shoot you, you'll die. But not just yet. You've got ten seconds to run. Nine, eight
TUVOK: Computer, end program.
HOLO-SESKA: Seven, six, five
TUVOK: Holodeck one to Bridge. Emergency transport.
HOLO-SESKA: Oh, did I forget to tell you? The moment you restarted the program, the com system went down. Four, three
PARIS: I guess we'd better do what she says.
HOLO-SESKA: Two, one.

[Holographic Corridor]
PARIS: You should never have crossed her, Tuvok.
TUVOK: She has been dead for over a year now. There would have been no way to predict this turn of events.
PARIS: I guess we should have known Seska wouldn't let a little thing like death stop her from getting even.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Tuvok. Tom. In here.
PARIS: Captain?

[Holographic Transporter Room]
HOLO-JANEWAY: We're going to have to transport to the cargo bay to free the rest of the prisoners. It's safer than trying to make it on foot.
PARIS: She's a hologram too?
TUVOK: Apparently she believes we're here to help her retake the ship from the mutineers.
PARIS: I say we play along. We could use all the help we can get against Seska.
TUVOK: You're forgetting it was Seska who rewrote the scenario. For all we know, she's programmed Captain Janeway to betray us.
PARIS: I suppose you have a better idea?
TUVOK: The safest course of action is to avoid participation of any kind. Eventually, the real Captain will discover our predicament and shut down the program from the outside.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Let's move!
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Hold it right there!
HOLO-JANEWAY: Back off!
HOLO-SESKA: Or what? You'll shoot us? Go right ahead.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Whatever you say.
HOLO-SESKA: Poor Kathryn. I guess nobody told her the phaser rifles from storage locker three have been malfunctioning.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: You're an incredible woman, Seska.
HOLO-SESKA: You see who's in charge now, don't you? So if I were you, I'd get moving again. The program's not over.
TUVOK: We have no intention of participating in this exercise.
HOLO-SESKA: You don't want to end up like your Captain, do you?
PARIS: You programmed all this. The malfunctioning phaser, the version of Chakotay who's attracted to you. None of it's real.
HOLO-SESKA: You hear that? He thinks this is a game. Show him he's wrong.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I've been waiting a long time for this.
HOLO-SESKA: Next time, you'll believe me when I tell you the safety protocols are off. Now, you've got five seconds to start running again, or you'll end up with more than a flesh wound.

[Holographic Corridor]
PARIS: So much for not playing along with Seska's program.
TUVOK: Are you able to continue?
PARIS: I'll keep up. The question is, where are we going?
TUVOK: I have an idea.

[Holographic Sickbay]
PARIS: What's the point? This isn't the real Sickbay.
TUVOK: I may be able to use some of this holographic equipment to treat your wound. Besides, it's as good a place as any to hide from Seska.
HOLO-EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
PARIS: No emergency, Doc. I'm fine.
HOLO-EMH: Nonsense. You have second-degree phaser burns. Please have a seat on biobed one.
PARIS: That's all right, Doc. I'm telling you, I feel fine.
HOLO-EMH: You require treatment. Twenty cc's nitric acid. A little proverbial salt in the wound.
HOLO-EMH: You're looking well.
TUVOK: Go!
PARIS: I'm not going to leave you!
HOLO-EMH: It was a pleasure treating you. Don't hesitate to call again.

[Holographic Corridor]
TUVOK: Are you all right, Mister Paris?
PARIS: Oh, just great. Maybe we can go to the mess hall now and let the holographic Neelix burn my arm with a frying pan.
TUVOK: Your feeble attempt at wit notwithstanding, it does appear that Seska has reprogrammed the holographic crew to torture us. I suggest we avoid meeting any more of them.
HOLO-SESKA (voiceover): Seska to Tuvok. I know you can hear me.
PARIS: Oh, terrific.
HOLO-SESKA (voiceover): I just wanted to remind you that wherever you go, I'll find you.
PARIS: I say we try the Jefferies tubes.
TUVOK: I concur.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, you're not going to believe this, but Seska caused these cascade failures.
JANEWAY: Seska? How?
TORRES: What she lacked in loyalty she made up for in ingenuity. According to the back-up computer logs, she got into Tuvok's scenario on stardate 48671 about a month before she left the ship. She programmed it to cause all of these shutdowns the next time Tuvok reopened the narrative parameters file, which he didn't do until today.
JANEWAY: Can we get them out?
TORRES: Seska laid booby-trapped subroutines everywhere. If we try to open the holodeck doors, the power grid is rigged to explode.
KIM: And the transporters are still offline.
JANEWAY: You said the narrative parameters file is open now?
KIM: Seska's revised program is playing out as we speak.
JANEWAY: If Seska can rewrite Tuvok, maybe I can rewrite Seska.

[Holographic Jefferies tube]
PARIS: So, Tuvok, anything in the Dictates of Poetics about how to escape from a ship full of insane holograms?
TUVOK: Your attempts at humor are hardly constructive, Mister Paris.
TUVOK: The controls are jammed. I cannot close the hatch.
PARIS: Tuvok!
PARIS: Where do you suppose this came from?
TUVOK: That is an intriguing question.
PARIS: Do you think Seska's toying with us? Taking us to the brink of death again, then letting us live so she can keep torturing us?
TUVOK: I prefer a more optimistic interpretation. It is possible our shipmates outside the holodeck have learned of our predicament and have found a way to help us by making additions to the program, such as that plasma extinguisher.
PARIS: If you want to look on the bright side, I'm certainly not going to argue with you.
PARIS: If they do know what's going on, why just hand us a plasma extinguisher? Why not shut down the holo-grid, or change the scenario?
TUVOK: I would imagine Seska has made it very difficult for anyone to implement more than minor changes.
PARIS: Take a look at this. (On Aux Systems Monitor 128 - TRYING TO HELP YOU. GO TO WEAPONS LOCKER.)
PARIS: You were right.
TUVOK: We must follow their instructions.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Hello, boys.

[Engineering]
HOLO-CHAKOTAY (screen): What do you say we go for a little walk?
JANEWAY: Where did they come from?
TORRES: Seska's program is adding new algorithms to counteract the changes we're making.
JANEWAY: I need more access to the narrative subroutines.
TORRES: I can't get in.
JANEWAY: You'd better find a way, otherwise Tom and Tuvok aren't going to make it out of there alive. It looks like Chakotay's taking them to the holographic cargo bay.
TORRES: Torres to Kim. How are you coming

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): With those transporters?
KIM: Seska's program has completely disabled the relay access ports.

[Engineering]
KIM (voiceover): It's going to take a while to get Tom and Tuvok out of there.
JANEWAY: I guess that means I keep writing.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: As you can see, the last of your comrades have been captured. In case anybody had any doubts, it should be obvious by now that this is no longer a Starfleet vessel.
HOLO-SESKA: Bring Paris and Tuvok over here. You and you, bring your weapons.

[Engineering]
HOLO-SESKA (screen): What do you think I'm doing? I'm going to execute them right here.
JANEWAY: I need access to the character algorithms now!
TORRES: I'm on it.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]
HOLO-SESKA: Fire on my order.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Belay that.
HOLO-SESKA: What are you doing? We planned this.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure it's necessary to kill them.
TUVOK: If I'm not mistaken, the Chakotay hologram is undergoing some sort of character change.
PARIS: Do you think they're trying to help us again?
HOLO-SESKA: These two rodents betrayed us. They deserve to die.
TUVOK: Don't listen to her, Commander. You've taken the ship. There is no need to add murder to your list of offenses.
HOLO-SESKA: Quiet!
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Lower your weapons.

[Engineering]
TORRES: It's working.
JANEWAY: Now, if I can just keep modifying the Chakotay hologram.
HOLO-SESKA (screen): You're not going to lose your nerve, are you?

[Holographic Cargo Bay]
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: We have what we want. There's no reason to kill them.
HOLO-SESKA: Prepare to fire on my order!
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Seska! I'm in command of this operation.

[Engineering]
HOLO-SESKA (screen): Not anymore.
TORRES: I don't believe it. The program is reconfiguring the subprocessors to counter every change we make. No matter what we do, it rewrites itself so that Tom and Tuvok will die.
JANEWAY: I'm not out of ideas yet.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]
HOLO-SESKA: Now, is there anyone else who wants to challenge my authority? Isn't their loyalty inspiring? Set your phasers to kill.
PARIS: Don't listen to her.
HOLO-SESKA: Fire on my order.
HOLO-SESKA: What the hell was that?
TUVOK: Don't move, Seska.
HOLO-CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Bridge to Seska. We're under attack by the Rukani.
HOLO-SESKA: The Rukani?
PARIS: The people the captain and I were visiting while you were busy taking over the ship. When we realized there was a mutiny in progress, we called them for a little assistance.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Harry, have you got transporters yet?
KIM (voiceover): Still working on it, Captain.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]
HOLO-SESKA: You're not getting this ship back.
TUVOK: That is a rather bold statement for someone in your position.
HOLO-SESKA: Computer, initiate sixty seconds self-destruct sequence, authorisation zeta one.
COMPUTER: This ship will self-destruct in sixty seconds.
TUVOK: Computer, belay that order, authorisation Tuvok four seven seven four.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Voiceprint not recognized.
HOLO-SESKA: If you don't hand over that phaser rifle, everyone on this ship is going to be dead in
COMPUTER: Self-destruct in forty five seconds.

[Engineering]
TORRES: I don't know how she rigged it, Captain, but when she ordered the self-destruct it initiated an overload in the holodeck power relays. The whole grid is going to blow.

[Holographic Cargo Bay]
COMPUTER: Self-destruct in thirty seconds.
HOLO-SESKA: Hand over the weapon, or the ship is going to be destroyed.
TUVOK: I have set this phaser to kill. If you do not deactivate the self-destruct sequence, I will fire.
HOLO-SESKA: I'm surprised at you, Tuvok. That's not very logical. If I'm dead, who'll turn off the self-destruct?
COMPUTER: Fifteen seconds to self-destruct. Thirteen, twelve, eleven, ten, nine
HOLO-SESKA: Computer, terminate self-destruct sequence, authorisation zeta one.
COMPUTER: Self-destruct sequence has been terminated.
HOLO-SESKA: Now call off your Rukani friends.
TUVOK: Do what she says.
PARIS: Tuvok
TUVOK: That's an order, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Paris to the Rukani vessel. Thank you for your assistance, but everything's under control now.
HOLO-SESKA: It is, isn't it? I guess if you want something done right, you've got to do it yourself.
PARIS: Not bad.
TUVOK: Seska's not the only one who knows how to cause a phaser malfunction.
COMPUTER: The holographic simulation has ended.

[Engineering]
TORRES: It's over.
KIM (voiceover): Kim to Engineering. I think I can give you transporters now, Captain.
JANEWAY: That's all right, Harry. No rush.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Here's to stories with happy endings.
TUVOK: I must say, Captain. Causing the alien ship to come to our aid was a very effective plot development.
JANEWAY: Who says deus ex machina is an outdated literary device?
PARIS: I'm just glad you didn't come down with a case of writer's block.
TORRES: So, you two are going to have to come up with a new idea for your next literary collaboration.
JANEWAY: What about doing a Western?
TORRES: Or a detective story?
CHAKOTAY: I don't care what kind of story it is, as long as I'm not the bad guy this time.
NEELIX: I've got a great idea for a holonovel about a daring trader who becomes a cook on a starship. Eventually, he rises
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, if Mister Paris and I do create another work of holo-fiction, I assure you we will choose a subject much less close to home.
BORG (voiceover): We are the Borg. Existence as you know it is over. We will add your biological and technological distinctiveness to our own. Resistance is

[Da Vinci's Workshop]
DA VINCI: The Cardinal is a thief. I delivered two portraits of his mindless nephew more than three months ago, to be depicted in the heroic mode of an Hercules or an Achilles, so specified our contract. I complied, making that young fool of a nephew look far more heroic than nature ever intended. An act on my part far greater than anything accomplished by Hercules or Achilles! And what have I, the divine Leonardo Da Vinci received in payment?
JANEWAY: The Cardinal's eternal gratitude?
DA VINCI: Essatto! In other words, Signorina, less than nothing.
JANEWAY: All the more reason why you should accept my proposal.
DA VINCI: Money is beside the point, Signorina. Catarina, is it?
JANEWAY: Yes. I'm only asking for a corner, one bench, a place to work on my own projects, paintings, sculptures. Just being here in your company is inspiring to me.
DA VINCI: Flattery, Catarina, is also beside the point. Besides, I prefer my solitude. Scusi.
DA VINCI: Meraviglioso.
JANEWAY: What will you call it?
DA VINCI: The Arm of Hephaestos.
JANEWAY: The god of the forge.
DA VINCI: Every blacksmith who has ever swung a hammer will thank me for this creation.
JANEWAY: Someone once said all invention is but an extension of the body of man.
DA VINCI: Do not think that just because I have enjoyed your visit today, that I am prepared to turn my workshop into a traveler's inn.
DA VINCI: Che cazzo.
JANEWAY: Here, let me help you.
DA VINCI: You will get your hands covered with goose grease.
JANEWAY: It's good for the skin.
DA VINCI: Let us see if we can find his big brother. Hopefully he will be stronger.
JANEWAY: This looks like a flying machine.
DA VINCI: I though that because my imagination took flight so easily, my body could do the same. I was wrong.
JANEWAY: It's this flapping approach. You designed your machine to mimic the way a bat or a sparrow flies.
DA VINCI: Yes, yes. So?
JANEWAY: So what if you based it on the hawk, instead?
DA VINCI: The hawk. A creature that glides through the air.
JANEWAY: Essatto.
DA VINCI: We will design a new machine, and you, Catarina, will help me fly it.
JANEWAY: I'll need someplace to work.
DA VINCI: A corner? One workbench?
JANEWAY: That will be fine.
DA VINCI: Ten scudi per week and you provide your own materials.
JANEWAY: Seven. And I might need to borrow a few things, on occasion.
DA VINCI: Then we have an agreement.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain, we need you in Engineering. There's something here you should see.
JANEWAY: On my way. Computer, end program.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: What have you got?
CHAKOTAY: Some bad news. The long range probe we sent out two months ago has stopped transmitting.
TORRES: At first I thought it was a problem with the communications grid, then I cleared up the last few seconds of telemetry. Take a look at this.
CHAKOTAY: This could be it, Captain. Borg space.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: We don't know exactly how many vessels are out there. but their space appears to be vast. It includes thousands of solar systems, all Borg. We are no doubt entering the heart of their territory. There's no going around it, but there may be a way through it.
CHAKOTAY: Before the probe was disabled, it picked up a narrow corridor of space devoid of Borg activity. We've nicknamed it the Northwest Passage.
TORRES: Unfortunately, the passage is filled with intense gravimetric distortions. probably caused by a string of quantum singularities.
PARIS: Better to ride the rapids than face the hive.
CHAKOTAY: Exactly. We're going to set a course for that corridor. and go into full Tactical Alert. Where do we stand with weapons?
TUVOK: I have reprogrammed the phaser banks to a rotating modulation, but I suspect a Borg vessel will adapt quickly.
CHAKOTAY: We can use every edge. Ensign?
KIM: I've already configured the long range sensors to scan for transwarp signatures. An early warning system.
CHAKOTAY: Good work. Doctor, how are you coming on the medical front?
EMH: I've analyzed every square millimeter of the Borg corpse we recovered three months ago. I'm closer to understanding how their assimilation technology works, and I might be able to create some sort of medical defense.
CHAKOTAY: Redouble your efforts. This is your top priority. Neelix, I doubt we can resupply the ship any time soon.
NEELIX: No problem, sir. I'm working on a plan to extend our food and replicator rations.
JANEWAY: We have to act fast. The Borg have captured one of our probes. They know we're out here. We'll do everything in our power to avoid a direct confrontation. but if and when we do engage the Borg, I'm confident that we'll be ready. I have faith in each and every one of you. Let's do it.

[Engineering]
CREWMAN: Ensign, on the double.

[Corridor]
ENSIGN: Coming through. Open!

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: I want to cut down on the time it takes to seal off the decks.
KIM: In case we take on some uninvited guests?
CHAKOTAY: Exactly. And I want to increase the magnitude of the forcefields.

[Sickbay]
EMH: These injection tubules are the first step in the Borg assimilation process. Once inside the skin, they release a series of nanoprobes into the bloodstream.
KES: Maybe we can develop some kind of protective shielding against them.
EMH: Unlikely. The tubules are capable of penetrating any known alloy or energy field. Which means our battle must be waged inside the body itself. The first tissue to be attacked by the nanoprobes is the victim's blood. Assimilation is almost instantaneous.
KES: They take over the blood cell functions like a virus.
EMH: Which suggests to me that we should try to enhance the immune system. Create an assimilation antibody, as it were. I doubt we can actually destroy the nanoprobes, but we might be able to slow them down. Let's try a submicron dissection on the probes we've collected so far, see if we can discover the assimilation mechanism.
EMH: Kes, is something wrong? Kes?
KES: I saw Borg.
EMH: You've had a telepathic experience?
KES: There were bodies. Dozens of them, dead.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: How's Kes?
TUVOK: Unsettled. and uncertain. Over the past two hours, she has experienced several telepathic visions about the death of Borg and the destruction of Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Some sort of premonitions?
TUVOK: Possibly.
JANEWAY: We can't just ignore her intuition, but I see no reason to alter our plan. Tuvok, I want you to keep an eye on her.
KIM: Captain, long range sensors are picking up transwarp signatures. Five point eight light years distant, closing from behind.
CHAKOTAY: Red Alert.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers.
CHAKOTAY: What's happening?
PARIS: We've dropped out of warp.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering What's going on down there?

[Engineering]
TORRES: I'm not sure, Captain. Some kind of subspace turbulence is preventing us from creating a stable warp field.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Turbulence is increasing.
KIM: I'm reading two Borg vessels. Make that three. Four. No, five. Fifteen Borg vessels. Distance two point one light years and closing.
JANEWAY: Shields to maximum. Stand by all weapons.
TUVOK: They're in visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
CHAKOTAY: My God.
CHAKOTAY: Captain.
KIM: I'm picking up a polaron beam. We're being scanned.
JANEWAY: Think good thoughts.
TUVOK: The last Cube has rejoined the others.
JANEWAY: Did we sustain any damage?
KIM: No. Shields held. Warp engines are coming back online. All primary systems are stable.
JANEWAY: Stand down Red Alert. Harry. maintain a long range sensor lock on that Borg armada. They seemed to be in quite a hurry, didn't they? I'd like to know what they're up to.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: I'll take this near-miss as a good omen. Resume our course, Mister Paris.
CHAKOTAY: If we needed any more evidence that we've entered Borg space, I think we just got it.
JANEWAY: I'll be in my Ready room.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Yes. come in.
CHAKOTAY: We've just completed the latest sensor sweep. So far, so good. The Northwest Passage is still clear of Borg activity.
JANEWAY: I'd like to see a tactical update.
CHAKOTAY: According to my calculations, neither of us has eaten since last night. Join me for dinner?
JANEWAY: No thanks, I'm not hungry. And I've got a lot of work to do.
CHAKOTAY: I see.
JANEWAY: I've been looking through the personal log entries of all the Starfleet Captains who encountered the Borg. I've gone over every engagement, from the moment Q flung the Enterprise into the path of that first Cube to the massacre at Wolf 359. Every battle, every skirmish. anything that might give me an insight into the mind of the Collective.
CHAKOTAY: And?
JANEWAY: In the words of Jean-Luc Picard. 'In their Collective state, the Borg are utterly without mercy, driven by one will alone: the will to conquer. They are beyond redemption, beyond reason.' And then there's Captain Amasov of the Endeavor. 'It is my opinion that the Borg are as close to pure evil as any race we've ever encountered.' What's so funny?
CHAKOTAY: Nothing.
JANEWAY: You're smiling. Obviously, I've said something amusing.
CHAKOTAY: You sounded just like Amasov.
JANEWAY: What?
CHAKOTAY: Just now, while you were reading his log. You were using his inflections.
JANEWAY: I did not.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, you were. And before that, you were doing a pretty good Picard.
JANEWAY: Was I?
CHAKOTAY: It's nothing to be ashamed about. Echoing the Greats. Ensign Hickman in Astrophysics does a passable Janeway.
JANEWAY: If we manage to survive the next few days, I'm going to have a little chat with Ensign Hickman. Imitating the Captain, huh? Surely that violates some kind of Starfleet protocol. This day was inevitable. We all knew it. And we've all tried to prepare ourselves for the challenge ahead. But at what point is the risk too great? At what point do we come about and retreat to friendly territory? Could the crew accept living out the rest of their lives in the Delta Quadrant? I keep looking to all these Captains, my comrades in arms. But the truth is, I'm alone.
CHAKOTAY: If that moment comes. we'll face it together. And we'll make the right decision. You're not alone, Kathryn.
JANEWAY: Three years ago, I didn't even know your name. Today I can't imagine a day without you.
TUVOK (voiceover): Captain Janeway to the bridge.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Gentlemen.
KIM: Something strange is going on.
TUVOK: The power signatures of those Borg vessels have terminated.
CHAKOTAY: All of them?
KIM: They're dead in the water, about five point two light years from here.
JANEWAY: Cause?
TUVOK: Unknown.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris.
PARIS: Captain.
JANEWAY: Set a course for their position. Warp two.
KIM: We're approaching the ships.
JANEWAY: Slow to impulse. On screen.
CHAKOTAY: Lifesigns?
KIM: A few, but they're erratic.
TUVOK: Captain, I'm detecting two residual weapons signatures in the debris. One is Borg, the other is of unknown origin.
PARIS: Who could do this to the Borg?
JANEWAY: Someone more powerful than the Borg? It's hard to imagine.
KIM: But they did it. Fifteen Cubes! We might've just found our ticket through Borg space. An ally.
CHAKOTAY: Let's not jump to conclusions. Scan the vicinity for other vessels.
TUVOK: There are none.
KIM: Hold on. I'm picking up some sort of bio-readings. They're coming from the outer hull of one of the Borg ships.
JANEWAY: Let's see it. Magnify, Mister Kim.
KIM: It's definitely organic, but our sensors can't penetrate its surface.
JANEWAY: Send a standard greeting.
TUVOK: No response.
CHAKOTAY: This could be a space-dwelling organism or a biological weapon.
JANEWAY: I'd like to know what kind of weapon could destroy the Borg. Can we beam it away from the ship?
KIM: I can't get a lock on it.
CHAKOTAY: Tractor beam?
TUVOK: No effect.
KIM: Whatever that thing is, it's impervious to our technology.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, are you reading an atmosphere in the Cube?
TUVOK: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: Commander Chakotay, I want you to take an away team inside. Try to get a short range scan of the biomass.
TUVOK: There are still Borg lifesigns, but they're unstable.
JANEWAY: We'll keep an open comlink and an active Transporter lock. We'll pull you out of there at the first sign of trouble.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, Harry, you're with me.

[Borg Cube]
CHAKOTAY: This way.
TUVOK: Lower your phasers. If we don't appear threatening, they should ignore us.
KIM: Looks like they're a little preoccupied.
CHAKOTAY: The alien bio-readings are getting stronger. We're close.
KIM: Commander.
TUVOK: Curious.
CHAKOTAY: That's not the word I had in mind.
TUVOK: Those bodies are reminiscent of one of the premonitions Kes described.
KIM: Didn't Kes say we were all going to die?
CHAKOTAY: Let's keep moving.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like the bio-mass dissolved right through the Borg hull.
TUVOK: This Borg is attempting to assimilate it.
KIM: Doesn't look like he's having much luck.
CHAKOTAY: There's a chamber beyond this opening. Forty meters wide, high concentrations of antimatter particles. It looks like a warp propulsion system of some kind.
KIM: It's a ship?
TUVOK: Starfleet has encountered species that use organic-based vessels. The Breen, for example.
CHAKOTAY: There doesn't seem to be anybody on board. Chakotay to Voyager.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we've found an entrance to the biomass. We think it may be a ship of some kind. Permission to go inside.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Granted.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, that's a Borg distribution node. See if you can download their tactical database. It might contain a record of what happened here.
KIM: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok.

[Alien Bioship]
CHAKOTAY: They seem to be organic conduits. They're carrying electrodynamic fluid.
TUVOK: Maybe an energy source.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe. This looks like a binary matrix, but it's laced with neuropeptides. Could be their version of a computer core.
TUVOK: This damage was caused by a Borg disrupter beam. The wall appears to be regenerating itself. Commander!

[Sickbay]
EMH: Kes?
KES: Harry's in danger.
EMH: What are you
KES: Get them out of there.
EMH: Sickbay to Janeway.

[Alien Bioship]
KIM (voiceover): Commander!

[Borg Cube]
KIM: There's someone in here with us and it's not the Borg. I can't localize it but it's within twenty meters.
TUVOK: Perhaps the pilot has returned.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Voyager to away team.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Stand by for transport. We're getting you out of there.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Good idea.
JANEWAY: Energize.
TORRES: I can't get a lock on them.
JANEWAY: What's the problem?
TORRES: It looks like bioelectric interference from whatever's coming toward them.

[Borg Cube]
CHAKOTAY: It's within seven meters. Let's get out of here!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Narrow the confinement beam.
TORRES: No effect. I'm going to try a skeletal lock.
JANEWAY: What?
TORRES: I think I can get a clean lock on the minerals in their bone tissue. I just came up with it, but I think it might work.

[Borg Cube]
CHAKOTAY: The lifeform's five meters away and closing.
KIM: From where?

[Bridge]
TORRES: I've got them.
JANEWAY: A skeletal lock, huh? We'll have to add that one to the Transporter manual.
PARIS: Captain, the bioship is powering up, like it's charging some kind of weapon.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, get us out of here. Maximum warp.
PARIS: The alien ship is not pursuing.
JANEWAY: Kes?
KES: I could hear its thoughts. The pilot of the bioship was trying to communicate with me. They're a telepathic species. I've been aware of them for some time now. The premonitions. Captain, it's not the Borg that we should be worried about, it's them.
JANEWAY: What did it say to you?
KES: It said, the weak will perish. Captain's log, stardate 50984.3. It's been twelve hours since our confrontation with the alien lifeform. There's no sign that we're being pursued and we've had no further encounters with the Borg. I've decided to hold our course. The Northwest Passage is only one day away, and I won't allow fear to undermine this crew's sense of purpose, even if that fear is justified.

[Sickbay]
EMH: The infection is spreading. What began with a few stray cells contaminating the chest wound is now infusing every system in his body.
JANEWAY: It looks like he's being transformed in some way.
EMH: Not exactly. The alien cells are consuming his body from the inside out. In essence, Mister Kim is being eaten alive.
JANEWAY: He's still conscious, Doctor.
EMH: I tried giving him a sedative, but it was rejected immediately. In fact, every treatment I've tried has been neutralized within seconds. These are alien cells. Each one contains more than a hundred times the DNA of a human cell. It's the most densely coded life form I've ever seen. Even I would need years to decipher it.
JANEWAY: They have an extraordinary immune response. Anything that penetrates the cell membrane, chemical, biological, technological, it's all instantly destroyed. That's why the Borg can't assimilate them.
EMH: Resistance in this case is far from futile. Nevertheless, I believe Borg technology holds the key to saving Mister Kim.
JANEWAY: How so?
EMH: I hope to unleash an army of modified Borg nanoprobes into his bloodstream, designed to target and eradicate the infection. As you know, I've been analyzing the nanoprobes. They're efficient little assimilators, one can't help but admire the workmanship. But they're no match for the alien cells. So I successfully dissected a nanoprobe and managed to access its re-coding mechanism. I reprogrammed the probe to emit the same electrochemical signatures as the alien cells. That way, the probe can do its work without being detected. Observe. The alien cells are completely oblivious to probe until it's too late. Unfortunately, I've only created a few prototypes. I'll need several days to modify enough nanoprobes to cure Ensign Kim.
JANEWAY: Does Harry have several days?
EMH: I wish I knew.
JANEWAY: Fight it, Harry. That's an order.

[Engineering]
TORRES: We've analyzed the Borg's tactical database. They refer to these new aliens as Species 8472.
TUVOK: Over the past five months, the Borg have been attacked by them on at least a dozen occasions. Each time, the Borg were defeated swiftly.
TORRES: The Collective has very little information about the species.
CHAKOTAY: Is anything known about where they come from?
TORRES: I'm afraid so.
CHAKOTAY: Get the Captain.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: The Northwest Passage.
CHAKOTAY: It's clear of Borg activity for a very good reason.
TUVOK: I'm picking up one hundred and thirty three bioships. More are appearing.
JANEWAY: From where?
TUVOK: They seem to be coming from a quantum singularity.
TORRES: I'm localizing the gravimetric distortions.
CHAKOTAY: On screen.
JANEWAY: Kes, anything?
KES: Yes. I can hear them. They're in a place where they're alone. Nothing else lives there.
CHAKOTAY: Some kind of parallel universe?
KES: I don't know. I feel malevolence, a cold hatred. The weak will perish. It's an invasion. They intend on destroying everything.
JANEWAY: Tom, reverse course, maximum warp. Take us five light years out and hold position.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Maintain Red Alert. Commander.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: That moment we spoke about? It's here. Any thoughts?
CHAKOTAY: Just one. Flying into that corridor would mean certain death.
JANEWAY: Agreed. The Northwest Passage is no longer an option. So now the choice is between facing the Borg in their space, or finding ourselves a nice planet here in the Delta Quadrant and giving up on ever getting home.
CHAKOTAY: We'd be turning around, but we wouldn't be giving up. We may find another way home.
JANEWAY: I'm not ready to walk onto that bridge and tell the crew we're quitting. I can't do it, Chakotay. Not yet. There must be an alternative.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, you haven't slept in two days. Try getting some rest, and clearing your head. We're safe for the moment. We can tell the crew tomorrow, if we have to.
JANEWAY: See you in the morning.

[Da Vinci's Workshop - Night]
JANEWAY: Maestro? Leonardo?
DA VINCI: Catarina. Buona sera.
JANEWAY: Am I disturbing you?
DA VINCI: What do you see?
JANEWAY: A wall with candlelight reflecting on it. Why? What do you see?
DA VINCI: A flock of starlings, the leaves of an oak, a horse's tail, a thief with a noose around his neck. And a wall with the candlelight reflecting on it. There are times, Catarina, when I find myself transfixed by a shadow on the wall, or the splashing of water against a stone. I stare at it, the hours pass, the world around me drops away, replaced by worlds being created and destroyed by my imagination. A way to focus the mind. Sit, and tell me why you have come.
JANEWAY: There's a path before me. The only way home. And on either side, mortal enemies bent on destroying each other. If I attempt to pass through them I'll be destroyed as well. But if I turn around, that would end all hope of ever getting home. And no matter how much I try to focus my mind, I can't see an alternative.
DA VINCI: When one's imagination cannot provide an answer, one must seek a greater imagination. There are times when even I find myself kneeling in prayer. I must deliver a bronzetto to the Monks at Santa Croce. Come with me, Catarina, hey? We will awake the Abbot, visit the chapel, and appeal to God.
JANEWAY: Somehow I don't think that's going to work for me. But there is an alternative I haven't considered. What if I made an appeal to the Devil?

[Briefing room]
PARIS: An alliance with the Borg?
JANEWAY: More like an exchange. We offer them a way to defeat their new enemy and in return we get safe passage through their space. In developing a treatment for Harry, the Doctor has found a way to attack the aliens at a microscopic level.
EMH: It's still in the experimental stages, Captain. I've only made a few prototypes.
JANEWAY: Nevertheless, if we teach the Borg how to modify their own nanoprobes, they'd have a blueprint to create a weapon to fight the aliens.
EMH: In theory, yes.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, it's clear from the Borg database that they know practically nothing about Species 8472.
TORRES: That's right. The Borg gain knowledge through assimilation. What they can't assimilate, they can't understand.
JANEWAY: But we don't assimilate. We investigate. And in this case, that's given us an edge. We've discovered something they need.
NEELIX: But the Borg aren't exactly known for their diplomacy. How can we expect them to cooperate with us?
KES: Normally, the answer would be no. But if what I've learned from the aliens is true, the Borg are losing this conflict.
JANEWAY: In one regard, the Borg are no different than we are. They're trying to survive. I don't believe they're going to refuse an offer that will help them do that.
TUVOK: What makes you think the Borg won't attempt to take the information by assimilating Voyager and its crew.
JANEWAY: That won't get them anywhere. Doctor, you're the only one on board with full knowledge of the nanoprobe modifications. I want you to transfer all of that research into your holomatrix.
EMH: Certainly.
JANEWAY: You're my guarantee. If the Borg threaten us in any way, we'll simply erase your program. But it won't come to that, Doctor. It's in the Collective's own interest to cooperate. Voyager is only one ship. Our safe passage is a small price to pay for what we're offering in exchange. B'Elanna, assist the Doctor with his transfer.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, locate the nearest Borg vessel and lay in a course. They shouldn't be difficult to find.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.
JANEWAY: You were awfully quiet.
CHAKOTAY: I didn't want the others to hear this, but I think what you're proposing is too great a risk.
JANEWAY: How so?
CHAKOTAY: There's a story I heard as a child, a parable, and I never forgot it. A scorpion was walking along the bank of a river, wondering how to get to the other side. Suddenly he saw a fox. He asked the fox to take him on his back across the river. The fox said no. If I do that you'll sting me, and I'll drown. The scorpion assured him. If I did that, we'd both drown. So the fox thought about it and finally agreed. So the scorpion climbed up on his back, and the fox began to swim. But halfway across the river, the scorpion stung him. As the poison filled his veins, the fox turned to the scorpion and said why did you do that? Now you'll drown too. I couldn't help it, said the scorpion. It's my nature.
JANEWAY: I understand the risk, and I'm not proposing that we try to change the nature of the beast, but this is a unique situation. To our knowledge, the Borg have never been so threatened. They're vulnerable. I think we can take advantage of that.
CHAKOTAY: Even if we do somehow negotiate an exchange, how long will they keep up their end of the bargain? It could take months to cross Borg territory. We'd be facing thousands of systems, millions of vessels.
JANEWAY: But only one Collective, and we've got them over a barrel. We don't need to give them a single bit of information, not until we're safe. We just need the courage to see this through to the end.
CHAKOTAY: There are other kinds of courage. Like the courage to accept that there are some situations beyond your control. Not every problem has an immediate solution.
JANEWAY: You're suggesting we turn around.
CHAKOTAY: Yes. We should get out of harm's way. Let them fight it out. In the meantime, there's still plenty of Delta Quadrant left to explore. We may find another way home.
JANEWAY: Or we may find something else. Six months, a year down the road, after Species 8472 gets through with the Borg, we could find ourselves back in the line of fire, and we'll have missed the window of opportunity that exists right here, right now.
CHAKOTAY: How much is our safety worth?
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: We'd be giving an advantage to a race guilty of murdering billions. We'd be helping the Borg assimilate yet another species just to get ourselves back home. It's wrong!
JANEWAY: Tell that to Harry Kim. He's barely alive thanks to that species. Maybe helping to assimilate them isn't such a bad idea. We could be doing the Delta Quadrant a favor.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think you really believe that. I think you're struggling to justify your plan, because your desire to get this crew home is blinding you to other options. I know you, Kathryn. Sometimes you don't know when to step back.
JANEWAY: Do you trust me, Chakotay?
CHAKOTAY: That isn't the issue.
JANEWAY: Oh, but it is. Only yesterday you were saying that we'd face this together, that you'd be at my side.
CHAKOTAY: I still have to tell you what I believe. I'm no good to you if I don't do that.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your insights, but the time for debate is over. I've made my decision. Now, do I have your support?
CHAKOTAY: You're the Captain. I'm the First Officer. I'll follow your orders. That doesn't change my belief that we're making a fatal mistake.
JANEWAY: Then I guess I'm alone, after all. Dismissed.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: There are three planets in this system. Inhabitants, all Borg. A vessel is approaching.
JANEWAY: All stop. Shields up.
TUVOK: They're hailing us.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
BORG (voiceover): We are the Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
TUVOK: They've locked onto us with a tractor beam.
JANEWAY: Borg vessel, this is Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager. I have tactical information about Species 8472. I want to negotiate.
BORG (voiceover): Negotiation is irrelevant. You will be assimilated.
JANEWAY: Borg vessel. What you're receiving is a sample of the knowledge we possess. If you don't disengage your tractor beam immediately, I will have that data destroyed. You have ten seconds to comply. We know you're in danger of being defeated. you can't afford to risk losing this information. Disengage your tractor

[Borg Cube]
BORG (voiceover): State your demands.
JANEWAY: I want safe passage through your space. Once my ship is beyond Borg territory, I'll give you our research.
BORG (voiceover): Unacceptable. Our space is vast. Your passage would require too much time. We need the technology now.
JANEWAY: If I give it to you now, you'll assimilate us.
BORG (voiceover): Species 8472 must be stopped. Our survival is your survival. Give us the technology.
JANEWAY: No. Safe passage first or no deal.
BORG (voiceover): State your proposal.
JANEWAY: Let's work together, combine our resources. Even if we do give you the technology now, you're still going to need time to develop it. By working together, we can create a weapon more quickly. If you escort us through your space we can perfect the weapon as we

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Where did that ship come from?
TUVOK: A quantum singularity has appeared twenty thousand kilometers away. The bioship is heading directly toward the planet.
TORRES: The Borg shields are weakening. We might be able to break free of the tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: Can you get a lock on the Captain?
TUVOK: Not yet.
PARIS: Commander, there are nine more bioships coming out of the singularity.

[Borg Cube]
JANEWAY: What's going on? To be continued

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Report.
TORRES: The Borg shields are offline. I've got a lock on Captain Janeway.
CHAKOTAY: Get her out of there and break us free of the Cube. Stand by all weapons.
TORRES: I'm trying to energize. The Borg are scattering the beam.
CHAKOTAY: Compensate.
TORRES: No effect.
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
CHAKOTAY: On screen.
JANEWAY (screen): Commander. Cut the transporter beam.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY (screen): Do it. I've reached an agreement with the Collective. We're going to help them design a weapon against Species 8472. In exchange, they've granted us safe passage through their space.
PARIS: The Cube is altering course. They're heading toward the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY (screen): That's part of the plan. We'll work on the weapon en route. Once we're across their territory, we'll give them the nanoprobes. They appear to be holding up their end of the bargain. I suggest we do the same.
CHAKOTAY: How do you propose we begin this collaboration?
JANEWAY (screen): I'm going to work here, on the Cube. They have technology that'll make the job go faster. I want to take advantage of it.
CHAKOTAY: It's not necessary for you to stay there. We can set up a comlink with the Borg and
JANEWAY (screen): It's part of the deal. I work here.
CHAKOTAY: All right. As long as we're cooperating, maybe the Borg would be willing to disengage their tractor beam. We can match their course without a leash.
JANEWAY (screen): I'll propose it. Mister Tuvok, transport to my coordinates.
TUVOK: Understood.
JANEWAY (screen): We're going to make this work, Commander. Janeway out.
CHAKOTAY: You heard the Captain.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I replicated nearly ten million Borg nanoprobes, each of them reprogrammed to my specifications, each capable of targeting the alien tissue.
CHAKOTAY: Assimilating it.
EMH: Just momentarily. The Borg technology will denaturate within seconds, taking the alien tissue along with it. Mister Kim, I'm about to inject your carotid artery. You'll feel a tingling sensation. Don't be alarmed.
EMH: Nice to see you again, Ensign.
KES: It's working.
EMH: Prepare another dose of nanoprobes.
KES: Yes, Doctor.
CHAKOTAY: Good work. Let me know when he's back on his feet.
EMH: Commander. I must tell you. I have my doubts about this alliance. You may have convinced the Borg the nanoprobes can defeat their enemy, but a medical treatment is a long way from a weapon of war.
CHAKOTAY: Leave that to the Captain. This situation is unpredictable so we're going to stay at full Red Alert. Keep all information about the nanoprobes stored in your holo-matrix.
EMH: Don't worry. I'll delete myself at the first sign of trouble. Well, maybe not the first sign.

[Bridge]
TORRES: We've just received word. Tuvok beamed to the Cube. He's joined the Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Keep a transporter lock on both of them.
TORRES: I'll try, but the Borg are already regenerating their shields.
CHAKOTAY: Try matching their shield frequencies.
TORRES: It won't work. They'll be able to adapt too quickly.
CHAKOTAY: I don't want to hear what we can't do, Lieutenant! Just find a way to get our people out of there if we have to.
TORRES: Aye, sir.
PARIS: They've released their tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: Match their course and speed.
PARIS: I never thought I'd hear myself say this, but, looks like the Borg are cooperating.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Kes? Kes! Kes! What's wrong?
KES: They're watching us.

[Borg Cube]
TUVOK: May I ask where we're being taken?
JANEWAY: Grid nine two of subjunction twelve. Our very own workspace. It's near the center of the Cube.
TUVOK: These are my tricorder readings of the bioship we examined. I believe you will find them most revealing.
JANEWAY: Have you compared this to the Doctor's analysis of the alien tissue?
TUVOK: Yes. Many of the cellular structures are identical.
JANEWAY: The aliens and their ships are made of the same organic material.
TUVOK: Apparently so.

[Borg Chamber]
BORG (voiceover): You have entered grid nine two of subjunction twelve. Proceed.
JANEWAY: All right. We've analyzed one of the alien vessels, and it appears to be constructed of organic material vulnerable to the modified nanoprobes. I suggest we begin thinking about a large scale delivery system. A way to infect their ships and destroy them at the microscopic
BORG (voiceover): We will begin.
TUVOK: What are you doing?
BORG (voiceover): A neural transceiver is required for maximum communication. We will work as one mind.
JANEWAY: No. That wasn't the agreement.
BORG (voiceover): The neural link is temporary. You will not be damaged.
JANEWAY: I don't care. I prefer to communicate verbally, thank you.
BORG (voiceover): Your primitive communication is inefficient.
TUVOK: On the contrary. We work better with our individuality intact. Surely, we've proven that to you by now.
BORG (voiceover): Irrelevant. You must comply.
JANEWAY: We must do nothing. Tell your drone to remove the transceiver. What about choosing a representative? A single Borg we can work with and talk to directly.
BORG (voiceover): Elaborate.
JANEWAY: You've done it before. When you transformed Jean-Luc Picard into Locutus. We will not be assimilated. Choose a representative or the deal's off.
SEVEN: I speak for the Borg.
JANEWAY: I'm Captain Janeway. This is Lieutenant Tuvok.
SEVEN: We are aware of your designations.
JANEWAY: What's your designation?
SEVEN: Seven of Nine, Tertiary Adjunct of Unimatrix Zero One. But you may call me Seven of Nine. You are proposing a large-scale weapon. We concur.
JANEWAY: I thought you might.
TUVOK: We could encase the nanoprobes in some of our photon torpedoes. In essence, turn them into biomolecular warheads.
SEVEN: Your torpedoes are inadequate. They lack the necessary range and dispursive force.
JANEWAY: Do you have a better idea?
SEVEN: We are Borg.
TUVOK: I take that as a yes.
SEVEN: A multikinetic neutronic mine. Five million isoton yield.
TUVOK: An explosion that size could affect an entire star system.
SEVEN: Correct. The shock wave will disperse the nanoprobes over a radius of five light years.
JANEWAY: That's somewhat larger than I had in mind. You're proposing a weapon of mass destruction.
SEVEN: We are.
JANEWAY: Well, I'm not. You'd be endangering innocent worlds.
SEVEN: It would be efficient.
TUVOK: We'd need approximately fifty trillion nanoprobes to arm this mine. It would take the Doctor several weeks to replicate that amount. You are losing this conflict. Are you willing to risk further delay?
JANEWAY: Right now your enemy believes it is invulnerable. If we create smaller weapons using our torpedoes and destroy a few of their bioships, it may deter them, convince them to give up this war.
SEVEN: You are individuals. You are small, and you think in small terms. But the present situation requires that we consider your plan. Voyager's weapons inventory. Photon torpedo complement thirty two. Class six warhead. Explosive yield two hundred isotons.
TUVOK: How did you obtain this information?
SEVEN: We are Borg.
TUVOK: Naturally.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Commander, we have some disturbing news.
CHAKOTAY: At this point, I'm getting used to it.
EMH: Her telepathic visions are increasing, both in frequency and intensity.
KES: It feels different this time. It's almost like they're right here, in the room.
EMH: There is it again.
KES: I'm trying to block them out, but I can't.
EMH: Every time she has a vision specific regions of her cerebral cortex go into a state of hyperstimulation. Memory engrams, perceptual centers. I can't be sure but I think there's more going on here than just a simple hello.

[Borg Chamber]
JANEWAY: Enhance this grid. I want to take a closer look at the detonator.
SEVEN: We must analyze the bioship. Your data.
JANEWAY: You're human, aren't you?
SEVEN: This body was assimilated eighteen years ago. It ceased to be human at that time.
JANEWAY: I'm curious. What was your name before you were
SEVEN: Do not engage us in further irrelevant discourse. We are being hailed by your vessel.
JANEWAY: Commander, what is it?
CHAKOTAY (screen): It's Kes. The Doctor believes that the aliens are accessing her memory.
JANEWAY: If that's true, they may already know what we're planning.
CHAKOTAY (screen): I've ordered long range scans for bioships. Nothing so far.
JANEWAY: We should alter course, try to throw them off.
SEVEN: Agreed. Our course and heading have been changed.
JANEWAY: Match them, and keep me apprised of any changes in Kes.
CHAKOTAY (screen): Chakotay out.
SEVEN: We now require one of your photon torpedoes and the nanoprobes.
JANEWAY: One step at a time. We're not safely across your territory yet.
SEVEN: We must construct and test a prototype now. The risk of attack has increased.
JANEWAY: Irrelevant. We have an agreement. You're asking me to give up my only guarantee that you won't assimilate us. I won't risk it.
SEVEN: Are you willing to risk a direct confrontation with us? If we transport five hundred drones onto your vessel, do you believe you could offer sufficient resistance?
JANEWAY: We'd die trying.
SEVEN: That won't be necessary. We must construct a launching system to accommodate this design.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Glad you could join us, Mister Kim.
PARIS: Harry. Welcome back.
KIM: Thanks. Reporting for duty, sir. The Doctor gave me a clean bill of health. Did I miss anything?
CHAKOTAY: Not too much. Take your station, Ensign.
TORRES: You've still got a tendril up your nose.
PARIS: Commander. I'm picking up gravimetric distortions twelve thousand kilometers aft. It's a singularity.

[Borg Chamber]
SEVEN: We are under attack.

[Bridge]
PARIS: They're charging weapons.
CHAKOTAY: Shields. Keep a lock on the Away Team.
TORRES: Direct hit to our secondary hull!
KIM: Transporters are offline! Shields and weapons are down.

[Borg Chamber]
TUVOK: Voyager has taken heavy damage.
SEVEN: We cannot let the nanoprobes be destroyed.

[Bridge]
PARIS: We're being targeted!
CHAKOTAY: Brace for impact!
CHAKOTAY: The Cube?
PARIS: Destroyed, and it took the bioship with it.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead, Tuvok. Where are you?
TUVOK (voiceover): I'm in Cargo Bay two

[Cargo Bay Two]
TUVOK: Along with the Captain and a number of Borg.

[Bridge]
TUVOK (voiceover): We were beamed over just before impact. We require assistance.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok. Tuvok? Secure that deck. Security Team to Cargo Bay two. Paris, you have the bridge.

[Cargo Bay Two]
SEVEN: Lower your weapons.
SEVEN: We are here with your Captain's consent. It was necessary to sacrifice our vessel to protect yours. We have an alliance, do we not?

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: For now they're contained. They've assimilated Cargo Bay two and they're drawing energy from the secondary power couplings.
TUVOK: But they've gone no further.
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. I've sealed off decks nine through thirteen and posted security details at every access point.
TUVOK: I suggest we increase security around Sickbay as well.
CHAKOTAY: Already done. How far did you get on the weapon?
TUVOK: We're ready to construct a prototype.
KES: You're fit to return back to duty, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: And you, Kes?
KES: Oh, I'm all right. The visions have stopped for now.
EMH: The plasma burns to her thoracic region I can treat, and I've already stopped the internal bleeding. But her neural injuries are going to require some creative thinking.
TUVOK: Before we beamed out, an alien energy discharge struck very near the Captain.
EMH: Well, it appears to have disrupted all her neuroelectrical pathways. I'll have to induce a coma to protect her higher brain functions. But I must tell you, unless I can repair the damage, she may never regain consciousness.
CHAKOTAY: Make sure those Borg stay put. I want tactical updates every twenty minutes.
TUVOK: Aye, sir. Shall I resume working with them?
CHAKOTAY: Stand by for now.
EMH: The Captain wishes to speak with you. Please keep it brief.
JANEWAY: The Doctor explained my condition. You're in command.
CHAKOTAY: I understand.
JANEWAY: They'll push you. They'll threaten you. But they need you. They need this alliance. You have to make this work. I want you to make this work. Get this crew home.
EMH: I must begin.

[Cargo Bay Two]
SEVEN: Where is your Captain? I must speak with her.
CHAKOTAY: In our medical bay, recovering. You'll be dealing with me now.
SEVEN: Circumstances have changed.
CHAKOTAY: I'd say so.
SEVEN: The loss of our vessel requires that we modify our agreement.
CHAKOTAY: I've been giving that some thought. I'm willing to let you stay on board. We'll continue to work with you on the weapon. Once we're safely out of Borg territory we'll give you the nanoprobes, shake hands and part company.
SEVEN: Insufficient. Our latest tactical projections indicate that the war will be lost by then. The nearest Borg vessel is forty light years away. You will reverse course and take us to it.
CHAKOTAY: Even at maximum warp, that's a five day journey in the wrong direction. We're supposed to be heading out of Borg space, not deeper into it.
SEVEN: There is no alternative.
CHAKOTAY: Look, I'll honor the original agreement, but I'm not turning this ship around. It's too dangerous.
SEVEN: Denying our request is also dangerous.
CHAKOTAY: I'll think about it.
SEVEN: Think quickly.

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: A five day trip back into the heart of Borg territory. It's too risky. With those drones and the nanoprobes on board, we might as well have a bull's-eye painted on our hull. We're a prime target for Species 8472. We'd never survive another attack.
NEELIX: What is the alternative?
CHAKOTAY: I'm going to end this alliance here and now. We're going to drop the Borg off on the next uninhabited planet, give them the nanoprobes and take our chances alone. They can wait for a Borg ship to pick them up and finish the weapon. I'm in command now and I have to do what I think is best for this crew. Tom, I want you to scan for the nearest uninhabited planet and set a course.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
TUVOK: I must caution you, Commander. The Borg may not go quietly.
CHAKOTAY: We'll see. Bring that female drone to the Ready room. Dismissed.

[Ready room]
CHAKOTAY: Once we've beamed you to the surface, we'll send down the nanoprobes and all our research.
SEVEN: Unacceptable. We don't have time for
CHAKOTAY: This isn't open for discussion. I'm not turning this ship around. You're getting what you wanted. I suggest we part ways amicably.
SEVEN: There is another option. We could assimilate your vessel.
CHAKOTAY: If a single drone steps one millimeter out of that Cargo Bay, I'll decompress the entire deck. You won't pose much of a threat floating in space.
SEVEN: When your Captain first approached us, we suspected that an agreement with humans would prove impossible to maintain. You are erratic, conflicted, disorganized. Every decision is debated, every action questioned. Every individual entitled to their own small opinion. You lack harmony, cohesion, greatness. It will be your undoing.
CHAKOTAY: Escort our guest back to the Cargo Bay.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: Well, I've made my decision. If it were only a matter of going against the orders of my superior officer. You're more than just my Captain. You're my friend. I hope you'll understand.

[Cargo Bay Two]
BORG (voiceover): Species 8472 has penetrated Matrix zero one zero, grid nineteen. Eight planets destroyed. Three hundred twelve vessels disabled. Four million, six hundred twenty one Borg eliminated. We must seize control of the Alpha Quadrant vessel, and take it into the alien realm.
SEVEN: We understand.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Class H moon. Oxygen-argon atmosphere.
CHAKOTAY: It'll do. Take us out of warp and enter orbit.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok. Stand by to transport the Borg directly from the Cargo Bay. After they're on the surface, have security run a sweep of
KIM: I'm reading power fluctuations in the deflector array.
CHAKOTAY: Cause?
KIM: It looks like the Borg have accessed deflector control. They're trying to realign the emitters.
CHAKOTAY: Shut them out.
KIM: They've bypassed security protocols.
TORRES: We're emitting a resonant gravitation beam. It's creating another singularity.
CHAKOTAY: Reverse course.
PARIS: We're fighting intense gravimetric distortion. I can't break free.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Cargo Bay Two. Stop what you're doing, or I'll depressurize that deck and blow you out into space. This is your final warning. Do it!
TUVOK: Decompression cycle complete.
KIM: I still don't have deflector control.
TUVOK: Commander, a single Borg has survived.
PARIS: We're being pulled in!
CHAKOTAY: Report.
TUVOK: We appear to have crossed an interdimensional rift.
PARIS: We've definitely left our galaxy. No stars, no planets.
CHAKOTAY: Let's see.
TORRES: I'm re-calibrating sensors. The entire region is filled with some kind of organic fluid. This isn't space. It's matter.
SEVEN (voiceover): Commander Chakotay. We have entered the domain of Species 8472. Report to the Cargo Bay.
CHAKOTAY: Paris, repressurize Cargo Bay two. Tuvok.

[Cargo Bay Two]
SEVEN: Our entry into fluidic space has created a compression wave. They know we're here. A fleet of bioships is already converging on our position. Time to intercept, three hours, seventeen minutes.
CHAKOTAY: You've been here before. How else could you know about fluidic space?
SEVEN: We must prepare this ship for the altercation. We will construct a complement of biomolecular warheads.
CHAKOTAY: Why? Why were you here? You started this war, didn't you? What's the matter, our galaxy wasn't big enough for you? You had to conquer new territory? But this race fought back. A species as malevolent as your own.
SEVEN: Species 8472 was more resistant than we anticipated. Their technology is biogenically engineered. It is superior to that of all species we have previously encountered.
TUVOK: Which is precisely what you wanted.
SEVEN: They are the apex of biological evolution. Their assimilation would have greatly added to our own perfection.
TUVOK: So instead of assimilating these aliens you opened a door for them to our galaxy.
SEVEN: There is only one course of action. Destroy them first. My subspace link to the Collective has been weakened by the interdimensional rift. We cannot signal for help. We are alone. We must construct a compliment of biomolecular warheads and modify your weapons to launch them.
CHAKOTAY: I've got a better idea. Why don't you open that rift again and take us back?
SEVEN: If I did that, you will no longer cooperate.
EMH (voiceover): Doctor to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
EMH (voiceover): Report to Sickbay at once.
CHAKOTAY: On my way.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
EMH: Ah. As you can see, I've repaired her neural damage. Ensign Kim, the Captain, I'm two for two.
JANEWAY: Doctor. if you'll excuse us a moment.
EMH: Hmm? Eh? Oh. Gladly. Computer deactivate EMH program.
JANEWAY: The Doctor brought me up to speed, but he couldn't tell me what I really wanted to know. Why?
CHAKOTAY: The Collective ordered me to reverse course, travel forty light years back the way we came. What would you have done?
JANEWAY: I probably would've reversed course. Maintained the alliance as long as possible.
CHAKOTAY: In my mind, the alliance was already over.
JANEWAY: You never trusted me. You never believed this would work. You were just waiting for an opportunity to circumvent my orders.
CHAKOTAY: Trust had nothing to with it. I made a tactical decision.
JANEWAY: And so did I.
CHAKOTAY: They have taking advantage of us from day one.
JANEWAY: We made concessions, so did they.
CHAKOTAY: They lied. The Borg started the war with Species 8472. We've only got one Borg left to worry about. We should try to disable her and get back to the Delta Quadrant. We might be able to duplicate the deflector protocols they used to open a singularity.
JANEWAY: No. I won't be caught tinkering with the deflector when those aliens attack. There's no other way out of this, Chakotay. It's too late for opinions, it's too late for discussion. It's time to make the call, and I'm making it. We fight the aliens in full cooperation with the Borg.
CHAKOTAY: I was linked to a Collective once, remember? I had a neurotransceiver embedded in my spine. I know who we're dealing with. We've got to get rid of that last Borg and take our chances alone.
JANEWAY: It won't work. This isn't working either. There are two wars going on. The one out there, and the one in here, and we're losing both of them.
CHAKOTAY: It will be your undoing.
JANEWAY: What?
CHAKOTAY: Our conflicted nature. Our individuality. Seven of Nine said that we lack the cohesion of a Collective mind. That one day it would divide us and destroy us. And here we are, proving her point.
JANEWAY: I'll tell you when we lost control of this situation, when we made our mistake. It was the moment we turned away from each other. We don't have to stop being individuals to get through this, we just have to stop fighting each other.

[Bridge]
SEVEN: Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: I've relieved Mister Chakotay of his duties and confined him to the Brig. I'm back in command.
SEVEN: And you understand the situation.
JANEWAY: Completely. Tuvok, give her the nanoprobes. Work with her. Build as many warheads as you can and start modifying our weapons systems. I suggest we think about enhancing our defenses, as well. If we're going to fight this battle, I intend to win it.
SEVEN: We are in agreement.
JANEWAY: Good. This is the plan. We engage the enemy here, in their space. We show them what they're up against. If they have any sense of self-preservation, they'll back off, pull their ships out of the Delta Quadrant. That's provided the weapons are effective. If they aren't, it's been nice working with you. We've got to get this ship armed and ready in under two hours. We're going to war.
KIM: Borg modifications are complete.
JANEWAY: Bring them online.
KIM: Torpedo launch tubes active. Hull armor engaged. Shield enhancements stable.
TUVOK: Biomolecular weapons are ready. Thirteen standard photon torpedoes. And one class ten, armed with a high yield warhead.
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Ready your stations. Seal all emergency bulkheads and prepare to engage the enemy. Stand by for my orders.
PARIS: Four bioships have just entered sensor range.
JANEWAY: Battle stations.
KIM: I've got a visual.
JANEWAY: On screen.
KES: I can hear them. They want to talk through me. They say we've contaminated their realm.
JANEWAY: Tell them we had no choice. We were only trying to defend ourselves.
KES: They say our galaxy is impure. Its proximity is a threat to their genetic integrity.
JANEWAY: Tell them we have a weapon. A devastating weapon that can destroy them at the cellular level. If they don't stop their attacks on the Delta Quadrant, we'll be forced to use it.
KES: They said your galaxy will be purged.
KIM: Shields and weapons are offline!
TUVOK: Rerouting emergency power to the launchers.
PARIS: They're coming around for another assault. I've lost thrusters.
TUVOK: Biomolecular warheads are charged and ready.
JANEWAY: Fire.
TUVOK: Direct hit on all four vessels. No effect.
KIM: They're charging weapons!
TUVOK: The nanoprobes were successful, if not prompt. All four ships have been destroyed.
JANEWAY: I think we've made our point. Now open a singularity and get us out of here.
PARIS: Captain.
JANEWAY: Kes, are you still in contact?
KES: Yes.
JANEWAY: Tell them if they continue their attack, we'll use the weapon again.
KES: They're not responding.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. They're in pursuit.
JANEWAY: Prepare to fire the high yield warhead. Aft torpedo bay.
TUVOK: Ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: Thirteen bioships have been destroyed. The others are in retreat.
SEVEN: I have regained full contact with the Collective.
JANEWAY: What are they saying?
SEVEN: All remaining bioships in the Delta Quadrant are returning to their realm. The Borg have prevailed.
JANEWAY: With a little help from us. Now it's time you fulfilled your end of the agreement. Tell the Collective we expect safe passage from here on out. We'll give you a shuttlecraft. You can head for the nearest Borg ship.
SEVEN: Unacceptable. This alliance is terminated. Your ship and its crew will adapt to service us.
SEVEN: Resistance is futile.
KIM: Captain, she's tapping into helm control. She's trying to access our coordinates.
JANEWAY: Shut her out.
KIM: I can't.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Chakotay. Scorpion.

[Cargo Bay Two]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Seven of Nine, stop what you're doing. You're human. A human individual. Our minds are linked. We are one. I can hear your thoughts
EMH: His link is stable, but it won't be for long. You must hurry.
TORRES: Just a few more seconds.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I can see your memories.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): You remember being human.
SEVEN: We are Borg.

[Cargo Bay two]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I see a young girl. A family.

[Bridge]
SEVEN: Irrelevant. Your appeal to my humanity is pointless.

[Cargo Bay two]
TORRES: Almost there, Chakotay. You've got to keep her distracted if we're going to make this work.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Listen to your human side. To yourself, the little girl. Seven of Nine. Annika!
EMH: He's losing the link!
TORRES: Initiating power surge now!

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Her connection to the Collective is severed.
JANEWAY: Get her to Sickbay. Bridge to Doctor. Report.

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: Commander Chakotay's going to be all right, although he may wake up with a bit of a headache.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Tom, plot a course out of Borg space. Maximum warp.
PARIS: Yes, Ma'am.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51003.7. Three days, and no sign of Borg or bioships. We appear to be out of danger, but the entire crew is still on edge and so am I. Not even the calm of Master Da Vinci's workshop is enough to ease my mind.

[Da Vinci's Workshop - night]
CHAKOTAY: Am I interrupting?
JANEWAY: Not at all. Just finishing up my log.
CHAKOTAY: The old-fashioned way.
JANEWAY: I wanted to get as far away from bioimplants and fluidic space. And this feels more human somehow.
CHAKOTAY: I hate to spoil the mood, but you might want to look at this Engineering report. It'll take at least two weeks to remove the Borg technology from our systems. B'Elanna did note that the power couplings on deck eight work better with the Borg improvements.
JANEWAY: Leave them. How is our passenger?
CHAKOTAY: The Doctor says she's stabilizing. Her human cells are starting to regenerate.
JANEWAY: I wonder what's left under all that Borg technology. If she can ever become human again.
CHAKOTAY: You plan to keep her on board.
JANEWAY: We pulled the plug. We're responsible for what happens to her now.
CHAKOTAY: She was assimilated at a very young age. The Collective's all she knows. She might not want to stay.
JANEWAY: I think she might. We have something the Borg could never offer. Friendship.
CHAKOTAY: I want you to know that disobeying your orders was one of the most difficult things I've ever had to do.
JANEWAY: I understand. And I respect the decision you made, even though I disagree with it. What's important is that in the end we got through this, together. I don't ever want that to change.
CHAKOTAY: Agreed.
JANEWAY: Good. Well, I think it's time we get back to our bridge.
CHAKOTAY: No argument there.

[Cargo Bay two]
JANEWAY: So, how's the newest addition to our family?
EMH: At the moment she's stable, but the prognosis isn't clear. Her human physiology has begun to reassert itself. Respiratory system, neurological functions, immune response. But those systems are swarming with Borg implants. There's a battle being waged inside her body, between the biological and the technological, and I'm not sure which is going to win.
JANEWAY: Well, it's time we brought her up to date. Wake her.
SEVEN: Captain Janeway, What have you? The others. I can't hear the others. The voices are gone.
JANEWAY: We had to neutralize the neurotransceiver in your upper spinal column. Your link to the Collective has been severed.
SEVEN: You will return this drone to the Borg.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I can't do that
SEVEN: You will return this drone to the Borg!
JANEWAY: If I were to turn this ship around and head back into Borg territory I'd be putting my crew at risk. I'm not prepared to do that. Try to understand. You have to stay on board Voyager. But I'm offering you freedom from the Collective, and I assure you we will do everything we can to help the transition
SEVEN: You will supply us with a subspace transmitter and leave us on the nearest planet. The Borg will come for us.
JANEWAY: It's too late for that. Your human cells are starting to regenerate. You won't survive without medical care.
SEVEN: We need nothing from you. We are Borg. We are - ah!
EMH: This implant is being rejected by the tissue underneath. It's going to have to be removed.
SEVEN: You will suppress the human immune system.
EMH: I'm sorry, but the process has gone too far. We've got to get you to Sickbay.
SEVEN: No! We are Borg! We are Borg!

[Sickbay]
EMH: This armor plating is anchored to the skull with over three million microconnectors. There's no time to cut through them. I'm going to have to remove the outer layer of the skull itself. Lieutenant, will you please leave the surgical bay.
TUVOK: This Borg is a security risk.
EMH: She is heavily sedated. I assure you she's not going anywhere.
EMH: Thank you. Kes, I want you to anesthetize her cranial nerves. Twenty milligrams anetrazine.
KES: Yes, Doctor.
EMH: Kes?
KES: I don't know what happened. I looked at the hypospray and it just came to me.
TUVOK: Have you been experimenting with your psychokinetic abilities?
KES: No, not for months, but I have been feeling a little strange lately. Lots of energy, sleeping less.
EMH: I can see why. Your serotonin levels are sixty two percent above normal. It's the telepathic centers of your brain. They're in a state of hyperstimulation like they were a few days ago when you were in contact with species 8472.
TUVOK: Are they attempting to communicate with you again?
KES: No. This time it's different. I don't feel their presence at all.
TUVOK: Perhaps she's experiencing an after-effect of some kind.
EMH: A reasonable diagnosis, for a security officer. I'll run a full microsynaptic analysis, but it will have to wait. We should get back to our Borg.

[Ready Room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Ship's status report. We've got two teams on the hull, stripping off the Borg armor. They're working around the clock but it's still slow going.
JANEWAY: What about the warp drive?
CHAKOTAY: Torres is having problems cleaning out the plasma relays. It's disrupting the antimatter reaction. Until she's got it fixed we're stuck at impulse. She's requesting all personnel with a level three engineering rating or higher to lend a hand.
JANEWAY: Granted. Tactical update?
CHAKOTAY: Long range sensors are picking up residual transwarp signatures, Borg vessels. They passed by probably three days ago.
JANEWAY: So we're not out of the woods yet.
CHAKOTAY: Having half our propulsion system overrun by Borg implants doesn't make repairs any easier.
JANEWAY: Seven of Nine could help with that.
CHAKOTAY: That might be true if she were willing, but she's not in the most cooperative mood.
JANEWAY: That could change. I just have to reach her somehow.
JANEWAY: Annika Hansen.
CHAKOTAY: Our Borg?
JANEWAY: It took some digging through the Federation database, but I managed to find a single entry in the records of Deep Space Four. Her parents were unconventional. They fancied themselves explorers, but wanted nothing to do with Starfleet or the Federation. Their names were last recorded at a remote outpost in the Omega sector. They refused to file a flight plan. Apparently, they aimed their small ship toward the Delta Quadrant and were never heard from again.
CHAKOTAY: For all we know, Annika and her parents were the first humans the Borg ever assimilated.
JANEWAY: From what she's told me, that was almost twenty years ago.
CHAKOTAY: So she was raised by the Borg. It's the only life she ever really knew. If you were thinking of bringing her into the fold, that might not be possible.
JANEWAY: What's the alternative? Toss her back to the wolves?
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: What is it, Doctor?
EMH (voiceover): Could you come down here, Captain. We're having some problems.
JANEWAY: I'll be right there.

[Sickbay]
EMH: It's like peeling an onion.
EMH: Store it in a bio-stasis chamber. It may still be active. If you think there's a risk, Mister Tuvok, you can throw one of your little forcefields around the chamber.
TUVOK: A prudent security measure, for a doctor.
JANEWAY: Report.
EMH: I'm afraid we have a decision to make. A difficult one. Her human immune system has reasserted itself with a vengeance. Body armor, Borg organelles, biosynthetic glands, they're all being rejected. Her life is in danger. I have little recourse but to remove the Borg technology.
JANEWAY: Which is the last thing Seven of Nine would want.
EMH: Hence the difficult decision. If a patient told me not to treat them, even if the situation were life-threatening, I would be ethically obligated to honor that request.
JANEWAY: This is no ordinary patient. She may have been raised by Borg, raised to think like a Borg, but she's with us now. And underneath all that technology she is a human being, whether she's ready to accept that or not. And until she is ready, someone has to make the decisions for her. Proceed with the surgery.
EMH: Aye, Captain.
EMH: Kes? Let's begin with the microtubular network embedded in the oesophageal tract.
TUVOK: What's happening?
EMH: I'm not sure. She's going into neural shock. I can't localize the source. Kes, try to stabilize her motor cortex. Use a neurosequencer. Kes, I said to stabilize her cortex or we're going to lose her.
KES: Wait. I can see it.
EMH: What?
KES: I think the problem is in her colliculli. Yes, I can see it. A Borg implant. It's pressing against her trochlear nerve.
EMH: Can you tell me how we might remove it without severing the nerve?
KES: I think I can do more than tell you.
EMH: The implant is deteriorating. Her nervous system is stabilizing. Nice work, Kes. Unconventional but effective.

[Medical lab]
EMH: They say the eye is the window to the soul. In this case it's a little bit more. I've fabricated this artificial organ to replace her eyepiece, but I've had to retain some of the Borg circuitry along the optic nerve. As a result, she'll have increased acuity in one eye. Note how perfectly I've matched the pigment of the iris to her human eye.
JANEWAY: Excellent work, Doctor. I admire your attention to detail. When can I speak with her?
EMH: She's out of immediate danger, and I don't plan to resume the extraction process until tomorrow. I can wake her now, if you'd like.
JANEWAY: I would. How are you, Kes?
KES: I feel exhilarated, Captain. I've never been so focused in my life, and my telepathic abilities are stronger than they've ever been.
TUVOK: Your performance today was astonishing. However, your psychokinetic powers are still undisciplined, and as a result, unpredictable.
KES: I feel like I'm in control.
TUVOK: Nevertheless, you must proceed with caution. And with my assistance.
JANEWAY: What are you suggesting?
TUVOK: A series of guided meditations to help her explore the depth of these new abilities.
JANEWAY: Kes?
KES: I'm ready.
TUVOK: Well then, if you'll excuse us, we should begin immediately.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Ready when you are, Captain.
EMH: Don't be alarmed. You're in Sickbay. You're going to be fine.
SEVEN: What have you done to me!
EMH: Your body was rejecting the Borg technology. You were dying. I'm sorry, but we had no choice. Those are dermoplastic grafts. They'll help the regeneration process.
SEVEN: Unacceptable.
SEVEN: You should have let us die.
JANEWAY: I couldn't do that.
SEVEN: This drone cannot survive outside the Collective.
EMH: I beg to differ. Now that the Borg implants are being excised, your human systems are free to thrive. And thriving they are. As a matter of fact, I
JANEWAY: I want to help you, but I need to understand what you're going through.
SEVEN: Do not engage us in superficial attempts at sympathy.
JANEWAY: It's obvious that you're in pain. That you're frightened. That you feel isolated. Alone.
SEVEN: You are an individual. You are small. You cannot understand what it is to be Borg.
JANEWAY: No, but I can imagine. You were part of a vast consciousness, billions of minds working together. A harmony of purpose and thought. No indecision, no doubts. The security and strength of a unified will. And you've lost that.
SEVEN: This drone is small now. Alone. One voice, one mind. The silence is unacceptable. We need the others!
JANEWAY: I can't give you back to the Borg, but you're not alone. You're part of a human community now. A human collective. We may be individuals but we live and work together. You can have some of the unity you require right here on Voyager.
SEVEN: Insufficient.
JANEWAY: It'll have to do. And the fact is, this community needs you. The Borg modifications you made to our vessel are disrupting our warp drive. We need your help to remove them, your expertise, your cooperation. You must comply.

[Engineering]
TORRES: All right, I think I've got all the Borg garbage out of the plasma intake manifold. Let's try reinitializing the antimatter reaction.
KIM: Matter antimatter reaction at twenty two cochranes and rising.
TORRES: Damn! What happened?
KIM: Intake manifolds eleven and thirteen are still blocked.
TORRES: This is like pulling weeds. You think you've got them all out and then
SEVEN: You have neglected to remove the autonomous regeneration sequencers.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Torres, Ensign Kim, you remember Seven of Nine.
KIM: How could we forget?
JANEWAY: We can't afford to delay repairs any longer, so I've asked her to help us remove the Borg modifications. She only has a few hours before she returns to Sickbay. I suggest you put here to good use.
TORRES: You can start with the plasma relays. They're in Jefferies tube thirteen.
SEVEN: Jefferies tube thirteen alpha section twelve. We fully recall the engineering specifications of your vessel.
TORRES: Good. Can you also recall the way it looked before you turned it into a Borg circus?
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: Well, now that the pleasantries are over, why don't you get to work? I want updates every hour.
TORRES: Yes, Captain.

[Kes's quarters]
TUVOK: The flame of the lamp is fire disciplined, tamed and under control. It is the appropriate focus for the task ahead of us.
KES: How do we begin?
TUVOK: I will attempt to guide you in manipulating the flame at the subatomic level. Concentrate on the flame. Try to see past the surface, past the light, to the patterns of energy and matter.
KES: I can see the essence of the fire.
TUVOK: Good. Now reach out with your mind and intensify the flame.
KES: I'm making it hotter, brighter.
TUVOK: Now, with your thoughts, reduce the flame. Excellent. You never demonstrated this level of control before.
KES: It's as though I knew what had to be done.
TUVOK: What's wrong?
KES: Something's happening. I can see further, beyond the subatomic.
TUVOK: Kes, there is nothing beyond the subatomic.
KES: But I can see it, Tuvok. It's a new level of reality. It's beautiful.
TUVOK: Perhaps we should stop for now.
KES: Wait a few seconds. I want to try to control it.
KES: Don't worry, Tuvok.

[Engineering]
TORRES: What about these linkages. Every time I pull one out another one comes back in it's place.
SEVEN: Autonomous regeneration sequencers. They function to counteract resistance.
KIM: Amazing. How did you come up with the pattern duplication design?
SEVEN: We came up with nothing. The Borg assimilated this technology in Galactic Cluster three from species two five nine.
TORRES: I'm not interested in a history lesson. How do we disable it?
SEVEN: You must disconnect each sequencer conduit at the insertion juncture.
TORRES: Why don't you two work on the Jefferies tube. Start with the plasma relays.

[Jefferies Tube thirteen]
KIM: I'll start here. You said the Borg got this stuff from species two five nine. Who are they? Guess the Borg meet a lot of people, don't they? Stupid question. So, what's it like out there in Galactic Cluster three?
SEVEN: Beyond your comprehension.
KIM: Try me.
SEVEN: Galactic Cluster three is a transmaterial energy plane intersecting twenty two billion omnicordial lifeforms.
KIM: Ah. Interesting. (Seven's eyepiece zooms in on a communications node - Starfleet ID 59S47B.)
SEVEN: Ensign Kim. Your assistance.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Captain, somebody's trying to access the subspace transmitter.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Captain, I don't know how, but she's erected some kind of forcefield around the door. We can't break through it.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: She's bypassed our security protocols.
JANEWAY: Disable the transmitter.
CHAKOTAY: It's too late.

[Kes' quarters]
TUVOK: It's obvious your mental abilities have progressed beyond this particular Vulcan exercise. I suggest we. What is it?
KES: Something's wrong. The Borg is trying to contact her people.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Security team one. Intruder alert in Engineering.
KES: Wait. I think I can stop her.
KES: It's over.
TUVOK: Tuvok to bridge. Status.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: There was some kind of explosion in the Jefferies tube just as she was about to initiate her transmission.

[Kes' quarters]
JANEWAY (voiceover): We don't know what caused it.
TUVOK: I believe I may have the answer, Captain.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: I can tell by the expression on your face that you've got some bad news.
TUVOK: I have no expression on my face. However, you are correct. The news on two separate fronts is not good. I checked the subspace bandwidths. At least a partial signal was transmitted from Voyager.
JANEWAY: Enough for a Borg ship to track?
TUVOK: Possibly.
JANEWAY: And the second front?
TUVOK: I believe there is also cause for concern regarding Kes.
JANEWAY: Explain.
TUVOK: Internal sensor logs show that she destabilized the Jefferies tube at the molecular level. The effect weakened the infrastructure throughout the deck. She wishes to develop her abilities further. I am not certain it would be safe, for Kes or Voyager.
JANEWAY: I've got an Ocampan who wants to be something more and a Borg who's afraid of becoming something less. Here's to Vulcan stability. Wait for me.

[Brig]
SEVEN: So this is human freedom.
JANEWAY: I've decided to keep you in the Brig until I'm certain you won't try to harm us again. If necessary the Doctor can treat you here. I honestly believed you were going to help us.
SEVEN: You were not deceived, Captain Janeway. It was my intention to help you.
JANEWAY: What happened?
SEVEN: There was a chance to contact the Collective. I took advantage of it. Your attempt to assimilated this drone will fail. You can alter our physiology but you cannot change our nature. We will betray you. We are Borg.
JANEWAY: I've met Borg who were freed from the Collective. It wasn't easy for them to accept their individuality, but in time they did. You're no different. Granted, you were assimilated at a very young age, and your transition may be more difficult, but it will happen.
SEVEN: If it does happen, we will become fully human?
JANEWAY: Yes, I hope so.
SEVEN: We will be autonomous. Independent.
JANEWAY: That's what individuality is all about.
SEVEN: If at that time we choose to return to the Collective, will you permit it?
JANEWAY: I don't think you'll want to do that.
SEVEN: You would deny us the choice as you deny us now. You have imprisoned us in the name of humanity, yet you will not grant us your most cherished human right. To choose our own fate. You are hypocritical, manipulative. We do not want to be what you are. Return us to the Collective!
JANEWAY: You lost the capacity to make a rational choice the moment you were assimilated. They took that from you, and until I'm convinced you've gotten it back, I'm making the choice for you. You're staying here.
SEVEN: Then you are no different than the Borg.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Talaxian champagne, moon-ripened. Your favorite.
KES: Neelix, where did you get this?
NEELIX: I put a bottle away for a special occasion. Remember when we last sipped this together?
KES: Three years ago. It was when we first arrived on Voyager.
NEELIX: And do you remember the toast I made?
KES: Yes. To the adventure.
NEELIX: To the adventure. When you left Ocampa, you said that your people were being held beck. That if you were only given the chance you could become something so much more. And you have.
KES: I know things have worked out exactly the way we planned.
NEELIX: I was only holding you back. That's obvious to me now.
KES: No. I couldn't have come this far without you. And I love you. I always will. It's just, er
NEELIX: My cooking. You've always hated my cooking.
KES: That's exactly what it was.
NEELIX: Ah. So, tell me more about what's happening to you. What does it all mean?
KES: I don't know, and that's what makes it all so exciting. It's as if I can see into a place where the distinction between matter and energy and thought no longer exists. And that's only the beginning. I feel as if all the boundaries within me are about to fall away.
NEELIX: It sounds ah, sper, ah, interesting.
KES: I only have to look at an object, to gaze at it, and I can begin to see that the space between the atoms is being filled with something else.
NEELIX: Er, Kes.
KES: I can see them, I can see.
NEELIX: Kes, stop!
KES: No.
KES: Neelix!

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, I'm picking up some strange energy readings from deck two, the mess hall.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Neelix. What's going on down there? Neelix, report.
KIM: The bulkhead in that section is coming apart.
CHAKOTAY: Increase the structural integrity field on deck two.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: I've run every conceivable neural analysis. Everything short of dissecting the brain itself. Her telesynaptic activity is increasing but I don't know why, or how to stop it. Have the ship's internal sensors revealed anything?
TUVOK: For seventeen point four seconds Kes's body went into a state of cellular flux. She began to destabilize at the subatomic level.
JANEWAY: Then for some reason her atoms re-established their bonds and she was back in one piece.
EMH: But what about the next time? Her condition is escalating. We must find a way to suppress it, or the last we see of Kes could very well be her molecules blowing through the ventilation ducts.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, enhance the structural integrity fields throughout the ship. If she has another incident I'd like to avoid a hull breach. Doctor, maybe it's time we broaden our horizons. This appears to have gone beyond medical science. We're into particle physics now.
EMH: I'll try looking through the quantum substructure database. Maybe it'll give me some inspiration.
JANEWAY: Keep me informed.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Kes, until I can devise another diagnostic procedure, you're free to return to your quarters.
KES: Actually, I'd like to stay here, help with the research.
EMH: I don't want you to overexert yourself and risk precipitating another telepathic incident. Try to get some rest.
KES: Just let me stay for a little while. I haven't seen you much over the past few days. I miss you.
EMH: All right. Just for a while.

[Bridge]
AYALA (voiceover): Ensign Ayala to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Ensign.
AYALA (voiceover): You'd better come down to the Brig, ma'am.

[Brig]
SEVEN: One. One.
SEVEN: My designation is Seven of Nine. but the others are gone. Designations are no longer relevant. I am one.
JANEWAY: Yes, you are.
SEVEN: But I cannot function this way. Alone.
JANEWAY: You're not alone. I'm willing to help you.
SEVEN: If that's true, you won't do this to me. Take me back to my own kind.
JANEWAY: You are with your own kind. Humans.
SEVEN: I don't remember being human. I don't know what it is to be human. <br>
SEVEN: What are you doing?
JANEWAY: I'm coming in.
SEVEN: I'll kill you.
JANEWAY: I don't think you will.
JANEWAY: Do you remember her? Her name was Annika Hansen. She was born on stardate 25479 at the Tendara Colony. There's still a lot we don't know about her. Did she have any siblings? Who were her friends? Where did she go to school? What was her favorite color?
SEVEN: Irrelevant! Take me back to the Borg.
JANEWAY: I can't do that.
SEVEN: So quiet. One voice.
JANEWAY: One voice can be stronger than a thousand voices. Your mind is independent now, with it's own unique identity.
SEVEN: You are forcing that identity upon me. It's not mine.
JANEWAY: Oh yes, it is. I'm just giving you back what was stolen from you. The existence you were denied, the child who never had a chance. That life is yours to live now.
SEVEN: Don't want that life.
JANEWAY: It's what you are. Don't resist it.
SEVEN: No!
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Warp drive is still offline and we don't know whether the Borg have detected us. Kes' psychokinetic abilities continue to damage the ship's structural integrity, and as a result our defenses have been compromised.

[Kes' quarters]
KES: Come in, Captain.
JANEWAY: You wanted to see me. Ah, Tuvok's meditation lamp. I was with him when he got it six years ago, from a Vulcan master. Who doubled the price when he saw our Starfleet insignias.
KES: I'm sure it was the logical thing to do. I've been thinking about everything that's been going on, and I know what I have to do. It's time for me to leave Voyager.
JANEWAY: Oh, Kes.
KES: Something important is happening to me, and I want to explore it. But I can't stay here any longer. I'm a danger to all of you.
JANEWAY: We're going to get to the bottom of this. The Doctor's already working on a new approach.
KES: Everybody thinks that what's happening is a medical condition. That's not it at all. I'm going though a transformation. I don't know how or why, but every cell in my body is telling me that I'm changing into something more.
JANEWAY: What if it's not true? What if you're simply being swept up in the excitement of something you think is happening, but it's not real? On the basis of a feeling, an intuition, you're asking me to let you go, quite likely for ever? Kes, I just can't do that.
KES: It's my decision. My fate. Would you really try to stop me?
JANEWAY: No. But argue with you? Even plead with you to reconsider? Absolutely, for as long as it takes.
KES: It won't work. Look at me, Captain. I'm the same Kes you've always known. I haven't lost my judgment. I'm not under some alien influence. I believe something crucial is happening to me and I want to see it through.
JANEWAY: You've lived most of your life here. Voyager has been your home. And you've been a vital part of this family. Oh, I'm going to miss you.
KES: Now all I have to do is tell the Doctor. He's not going to be happy.
KES: It's starting.
JANEWAY: Janeway to bridge.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay here.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Prepare a shuttle for launch and have Tuvok meet me on deck six.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Kes is leaving us.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Come on.
KES: Captain, I can't stop it.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Chakotay. Beam us directly to the shuttlebay.

[Bridge]
KIM: The molecules in Kes' body are destabilizing. It's interfering with the transporter.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we can't get a lock.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Looks like we're going to have to do this the hard way.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: What's happening?
PARIS: The hull is destabilizing. The molecular bonds are breaking down.

[Corridor]
KES: Tuvok. I can't keep going.
TUVOK: I will attempt a mind meld to help you delay the transformation. Our minds are one. Our thoughts are one. Try to regain control for a moment. Only for a moment. Only for a moment. You must hurry.

[Bridge]
KIM: Hull breach on decks three, four and five.
CHAKOTAY: Emergency containment fields.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to the bridge. Kes is aboard the shuttle. Initiate launch sequence.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
PARIS: Shuttle distance, one hundred thousand kilometers. Speed, one quarter impulse.
JANEWAY: Can you hail her?
KIM: I've been trying.
KES (voiceover): What's happening? What's happening to me.
KIM: Her atomic structure is completely destabilizing.

[Shuttlecraft]
KES: My gift to you.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Torres to bridge. The warp core just came online.

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): Matter antimatter reaction at one hundred and

[Engineering]
TORRES: Two percent. A hundred and ten percent? A hundred and twenty!

[Bridge]
PARIS: This can't be right. Our speed is - it's impossible!
KIM: We're coming apart!
PARIS: We've just dropped out of whatever it was we were in.
CHAKOTAY: Systems coming back online.
JANEWAY: On screen. Where are we?
PARIS: Nine point five thousand light years from where we just were.
JANEWAY: She's thrown us safely beyond Borg space. Ten years closer to home.

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: I've extracted eighty two percent of the Borg hardware. The remaining bio-implants are stable, and better than anything I could synthesize at such short notice.
SEVEN: It is acceptable.
EMH: Fashion, of course, is hardly my forte. Nevertheless, I've managed to balance functionality and esthetics in a pleasing enough manner. I also took the liberty of stimulating your hair follicles. A vicarious experience for me, as you might imagine.
JANEWAY: You'll have to spend a few hours each day regenerating in a Borg alcove until your human metabolism can function on it's own. We'll leave one operational.
SEVEN: Understood.
JANEWAY: Let's see how things go over the next few weeks. I'll consider granting you access to the rest of the ship once that I can trust that you won't try to get us all assimilated again.
SEVEN: It will not happen again.
JANEWAY: Good. If you need anything, contact me.
SEVEN: Red.
JANEWAY: What?
SEVEN: The child you spoke of, the girl. Her favorite color was red.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Commander Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: I understand you wanted to see me.
SEVEN: I'm told you are the officer in charge of personnel. That you prepare the duty assignments. Is that the correct phrase?
CHAKOTAY: That's right.
SEVEN: I am finding it difficult to spend so much time alone. I am unaccustomed to it. The hours do not pass quickly.
CHAKOTAY: I can understand that. How can we help?
SEVEN: I've been considering the matter carefully. I would like to request a duty assignment.
CHAKOTAY: Did you have something specific in mind?
SEVEN: Yes.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Now what!?
VORIK: There's been a rupture in the coolant injector.
TORRES: I can see that. Why haven't you sealed it off?
VORIK: I am attempting to do so.
TORRES: That's better.
VORIK: Lieutenant, I have an idea. Perhaps it would be advisable to reconfigure the coolant assembly. That would give us greater control over the pressure valve emissions.
TORRES: You're probably right. And tomorrow we can do it first thing. But not today.
VORIK: I don't understand. Why wait until tomorrow? Today would be a much better
TORRES: Not today, Vorik.
PARIS: Good morning. Here's the helm control evaluation you wanted.
TORRES: Thank you.
PARIS: Are we still on for dinner tonight?
TORRES: I may have to work. I'll let you know.
PARIS: Ah ha. Okay. Have you decided if you're, if you're going through with it?
TORRES: I have. And I'm not. Today hasn't started out very well, and the last thing I need is to get involved with some obscure Klingon ritual.
PARIS: You were the one who suggested it.
TORRES: I know. And for one sentimental minute I thought that I might actually go through with it. But not anymore.
PARIS: Of course not. You wouldn't want to get too sentimental.
TORRES: I overslept this morning because I forgot to tell the computer to wake me. And then the acoustic inverter in my sonic shower blew out.
PARIS: That'll make your hair stand on end.
TORRES: So I didn't have time for breakfast. And when I got here two people were out sick, so I had to cancel the fuel cell overhaul. And then an injector burst for no apparent reason and started spewing plasma coolant
PARIS: That's a run of bad luck, all right.
TORRES: So I am in a bad mood, and I know that I am being a little bit testy.
PARIS: No, that's okay. Think about that dinner.
PARIS: Be careful.
CHAKOTAY: Something interesting just happened.
TORRES: What's that?
CHAKOTAY: Seven of Nine requested a duty assignment.
TORRES: Fascinating.
CHAKOTAY: She wants to work in Engineering.
TORRES: What?
CHAKOTAY: The Borg use transwarp conduits to travel through space faster than warp speed. If we could create one of them.
TORRES: We don't know anything about transwarp technology. Playing around with it could be dangerous.
CHAKOTAY: That's where Seven of Nine comes in. She's offered to work with you.
TORRES: What do you think her real motives are?
CHAKOTAY: She's having a tough time making the transition from the Collective. She wants something to do.
TORRES: I never thought of you as naive, Chakotay. The bottom line is, I don't want her working in Engineering.
CHAKOTAY: The bottom line is, I'm giving you an order and you're going to follow it, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Whatever you say, sir.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Seven of Nine, you told me you wouldn't make any more attempts to contact the Borg. I want to believe that's true.
SEVEN: I assure you it is.
JANEWAY: I've decided not to post a security detail while you're in Engineering, but you have to realize there are rules. You'll be expected to follow our protocols. You'll report directly to Lieutenant Torres and obey any order she gives you.
SEVEN: I understand.
JANEWAY: One more thing. Your designation, Seven of Nine, it's a little cumbersome. Wouldn't you prefer to be called by your given name, Annika?
SEVEN: I have been Seven of Nine for as long as I can remember.
JANEWAY: All right. But maybe we could streamline it a little. How would you feel about Seven?
SEVEN: Imprecise, but acceptable.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Yes, Tuvok.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Please come to the bridge. A ship is approaching.
TUVOK: It's damaged but functional. Energy emissions are so low, it's probably not capable of warp speed. Several dozen lifesigns aboard. We are being hailed, Captain.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager.
RAHMIN (screen): I am Rahmin. My people are the Caatati. I apologize for our appearance and the condition of our ship. Most of our people were assimilated by the Borg over a year ago. We lost everything.
JANEWAY: How many of you escaped?
RAHMIN (screen): A few thousand on thirty ships. All that's left from a planet of millions.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry.
RAHMIN (screen): Captain, I want to assure you, my people were once proud and accomplished.
JANEWAY: I understand.
RAHMIN (screen): It pains me to have to ask this, but I have eighty eight people to care for on this vessel. We need food, medicines. Is there any way you could help us?
JANEWAY: Of course. Send us a list of your needs and we'll see what we can do.
RAHMIN (screen): I'm deeply grateful. If it's not too much to ask, is there any way you might also spare a small quantity of thorium isotopes? Without them, our systems can't function.
JANEWAY: I think we can arrange that. I'll speak to my engineer.
RAHMIN (screen): You can't imagine what this means to us, Captain. Thank you.

[Engineering]
TORRES: How are those thorium isotopes coming, Vorik?
VORIK: I'll admit I'm having trouble controlling the neutron absorption.
TORRES: Try increasing the temperature of the plasma. Get the thorium to the captain as soon as it's ready.
VORIK: Of course.
TORRES: Tell me something. When you hear about people like the Caatati, do you have any feelings of remorse?
SEVEN: No.
TORRES: That's it? Just no?
SEVEN: What further answer do you require?
TORRES: Oh, maybe some kind of acknowledgement of the billions of lives you helped destroy. A justification for what you did. Maybe a little sense of guilt?
SEVEN: Guilt is irrelevant.
TORRES: Heartwarming.
SEVEN: I've set the parameters for the tachyon bursts we'll need to create a transwarp conduit. It will be several hours before the main deflector can be modified. I think it would be best if I waited in my alcove.
TORRES: I think you're right.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: If I ever saw a job for the morale officer, it's sitting right here. I'll bet I can help.
TORRES: You're facing a big challenge, Neelix.
NEELIX: I enjoy a challenge.
TORRES: Is that supposed to make me feel better?
NEELIX: Blood pie, for the Day of Honor.
TORRES: How did you know about that? Has Tom been talking to you?
NEELIX: Not at all. No, I make it a point to know these things. And if I'm correct, many Klingon families traditionally serve blood pie on the Day of Honor.
TORRES: I appreciate the gesture, Neelix, but I've decided to ignore this particular tradition. No blood pie, no examining my behavior over the last year to see if I measure up to Klingon standards.
NEELIX: Understood. Lieutenant, without knowing why there's a black cloud hanging over your head, may I suggest something?
TORRES: Go right ahead.
NEELIX: You have a bit of a temper that you keep reined in, and sometimes it builds up inside you until you explode at someone.
TORRES: I'd say that about sums it up.
NEELIX: I'm offering to be a pressure valve.
TORRES: What?
NEELIX: You may use me to blow off steam. When you're angry, come see me. Call me names, insult me, question my parentage. I won't take it personally. And you won't need to keep things bottled up inside anymore.
TORRES: That may be the nicest offer I've had in a long time. Thank you, Neelix. You're sweet, but I'm not sure I could do that to you.
NEELIX: I'm here if you need me.
TORRES: Neelix. About this Day of Honor. Do you think I should go through with it?
NEELIX: I've always thought traditions were good things, worth preserving.
TORRES: I've been thinking a lot about the rituals that my mother taught me, and they don't seem quite so hateful as they did when I was a child. Maybe being so far away from anything Klingon has changed me.
NEELIX: It certainly can't hurt to go through with the ceremony.
TORRES: I don't know what effect it'll have on me. That's what's frightening. All right, bring on the blood pie. I can do this.

[Holodeck]
MOKLOR: Qapla'! What warrior goes there!
TORRES: My name's B'Elanna.
MOKLOR: Do you come to have your honor challenged?
TORRES: I guess so. Yes.
MOKLOR: Are you willing to see the ceremony through to the end?
TORRES: That's the idea, isn't it? What do I do?
MOKLOR: It will be a lengthy ordeal. First, you must eat from the heart of a sanctified targ.
MOKLOR: Pak'logh! Yes, the heart of targ brings courage to one who eats it. Next, you will drink mot'lach from the Grail of Kahless. Drink to the glory of Kahless, the greatest warrior of all time!
MOKLOR: Kahless defeated his enemies on the field of battle and built a mighty empire. How have you proven yourself worthy?
TORRES: I haven't built any empires, and I can't say that I've personally defeated any enemies in battle, but you have to realize I'm not living among warriors.
MOKLOR: Then how do you expect to distinguish yourself?
TORRES: I don't know. I guess I'm doing the best I can.
MOKLOR: Huh. A pitiful reply. Let us proceed. A warrior must endure great hardship. To test your mettle you will endure the ritual of twenty pain-sticks. After that, you will engage in combat with a master of the bat'leth. Finally, you will traverse the sulfur lagoons of Gorath.
TORRES: You know, I don't think so. I didn't want to do this before you described it. Certainly not now. I'm leaving.
MOKLOR: Not until you have completed the ceremony, p'tach.
TORRES: Thanks so much. It's been lovely.

[Torres' quarters]
TORRES: Come in.
PARIS: I tried to find you before, but you were on the holodeck.
TORRES: That's right.
PARIS: You know, you left it running. There was a Klingon in there who didn't look too happy.
TORRES: Really?
PARIS: Yeah, and he was nursing a whale of a black eye. Looked like he'd had a run in with someone having a really bad day.
TORRES: That's very funny.
PARIS: So, how'd it go?
TORRES: It didn't. Do you mind if we talk about something else?
PARIS: As a matter of fact I do. You have been like a spitting cobra all day and it's getting boring. You know, we designed that holodeck program together, and I think you owe me the courtesy of telling me what happened.
TORRES: It was ridiculous, meaningless posturing. Honor, dishonor, what does it matter?
PARIS: It matters because it's part of who you are. You've been running away from that your whole life.
TORRES: Who are you to tell me that?
PARIS: I care about you, but if you're going to keep pushing me away then there's no point in my staying around, is there?
TORRES: Fine! Just leave me alone.
PARIS: Don't worry. If this is the way you treat people who try to be your friend, you'll be alone all right.

[Briefing room]
LUMAS: There are over two hundred people on our three ships alone. Everyone of them suffers from malnourishment, but it's been hardest on the children. Every parent sacrifices for their child, but even so, there's not enough food. If you could hear the crying of the babies, you would have as much trouble sleeping at night as I do.
TUVOK: Have you considered relocation to a planet where you could grow your own food?
LUMAS: Of course, but we haven't been welcomed anywhere. Because we have no resources everyone treats us like vagrants, even criminals.
CHAKOTAY: We're not unsympathetic, but we have limited supplies. We can't possibly provide enough for all your people.
LUMAS: Forgive me but, from my perspective you live in luxury. You don't suffer from debilitating diseases. You have many sources of energy. Replicators. Your crew is very well fed. Apparently, keeping your bellies full is more important to you than helping those less fortunate.
NEELIX: That's unfair. These are the most generous people you could hope to meet. But if we gave supplies to everyone who asked, we wouldn't have anything left.
JANEWAY: Neelix, how much food can we spare?
NEELIX: We could provide each ship with several hundred kilograms.
JANEWAY: Do it, and check with the Doctor to see if he can spare any medical supplies.
NEELIX: Aye, Captain.
LUMAS: Thank you. May the gods smile on you and your crew.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, please escort our guest to the transporter room.

[Corridor]
PARIS: I've never navigated a transwarp conduit. Any problems I should be aware of?
SEVEN: You have no idea what you are doing. If we attempt to enter one, I'll have to take helm control.
PARIS: I am a quick study.
LUMAS: What species is that?
TUVOK: She is a human who lived as a Borg.
LUMAS: Borg!
TUVOK: She is disconnected from the Collective. She won't harm you.
LUMAS: Where's my wife? Where are my children? What did you do with them after you took them? What did you do with my family?
TUVOK: Mister Paris, please proceed.
LUMAS: I lost everything. My family, my home.
PARIS: Sorry about that.
SEVEN: About what?
PARIS: Well, the way he reacted to you.
SEVEN: He didn't injure me.
PARIS: Good.
SEVEN: There are many people on this ship who have similar feelings towards me.
PARIS: I'm afraid you're right. Does that bother you?
SEVEN: No.
PARIS: Well, I'm not one of those people. We all have a past. What matters is now.
SEVEN: I'm uncertain what you're trying to say.
PARIS: That if there's any way I can help you adjust to your life here on Voyager, please ask me.
SEVEN: I will remember your offer.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: All systems are ready.
TORRES: We're only going to take a peek. We open a conduit, get as much sensor data as we can, then close it up. I want to take this one step at a time.
VORIK: I've set up a temporary tachyon matrix within the main deflector. It's online.
TORRES: Engineering to the bridge.

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): We're ready to start, Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead. We'll monitor your progress from here.

[Engineering]
TORRES: We'll need to be at warp speed to create a large enough subspace field. I'd like to reroute helm control to Engineering.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Agreed. Janeway out.
TORRES: Take us past
PARIS: Past warp two. I know. We're at warp two point three.
TORRES: All right. Vorik, start emitting the tachyons.
VORIK: Energizing the matrix.
SEVEN: There's no indication of a subspace field. I recommend switching to a higher energy band.
PARIS: That did something.
SEVEN: The subspace field is forming.
TORRES: Tachyon particles are leaking into the propulsion system.
PARIS: Shut down the deflector.
VORIK: Done. But the leak is continuing.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Engineering.
TORRES: The tachyons are flooding the warp core, Captain.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: If you can't stabilize the core immediately, evacuate Engineering.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Aye, Captain. I'll get back to you.
VORIK: I've cut all power relays, but the tachyon levels are still rising.
TORRES: All right, everybody out! Now! That means you as well.
SEVEN: I could be of help.
TORRES: That's an order.
PARIS: You can't order me, I outrank you.
TORRES: We've got to neutralize the core.
PARIS: I'll try decoupling the dilithium matrix.
TORRES: No effect. Try it again.
PARIS: It's not working. The core is about to breach!
TORRES: I've got to try one more thing.
PARIS: B'Elanna, there's no more time. We've got to get out of here. Come on.
TORRES: Computer, prepare to eject the warp core. Authorisation Torres omega phi nine three

[Corridor]
TORRES: Computer, eject the warp core. Torres to Janeway.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
TORRES: We've dumped the core. Welcome to the worst day of my life.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Vorik, we have to get those impulse engines back online. You and Nicoletti get started.
VORIK: Yes, Lieutenant.
JANEWAY: Report.
TORRES: We're stopped dead. The warp core is millions of kilometers away by now, and the impulse engines are seriously damaged. I can give you a few thrusters, but that's about it.
JANEWAY: How long before I can have impulse power?
TORRES: I can't give you an estimate on that. We're still assessing the damage. So much for opening a transwarp conduit. I sent the Borg back to her alcove. We won't be needing her in here any more.
JANEWAY: At least the core's still intact. Tom, take a shuttle and find it. See if you can tractor it back to Voyager.
PARIS: Yes ma'am.
TORRES: It'll be unstable. It should be repaired before he tries to put a tractor beam on it.
JANEWAY: Well then, you go with him. Do whatever you have to. Just get it back here in one piece.

[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
TORRES: We're getting near some random ion turbulence.
PARIS: I'll change course to avoid it.
TORRES: I wonder what else can go wrong today. If we get this core back, I'm going right to bed and sleeping straight through till tomorrow. Get this day over with.
PARIS: Well, look at it this way, how much worse could it get? Having to dump the warp core has to be the low point of any day.
TORRES: Maybe it's me. Maybe I'm asking for this trouble somehow.
PARIS: Or maybe it's just a streak of bad luck? Sensors have picked up a polymetallic object. Could be the core.
TORRES: That's the warp signature all right. There's something else out there. A ship. According to sensors it has the same energy signature as the Caatati ships.
PARIS: Maybe they're guarding it for us.
TORRES: Right.
PARIS: I see it. What do they think they're doing?
TORRES: They're trying to put a tractor beam on it.
PARIS: This is the Shuttle Cochrane to the Caatati vessel. Please respond.
LUMAS (voiceover): Don't come any closer. We're performing a salvage operation.
PARIS: Oh, what a coincidence. So are we.
LUMAS (voiceover): I'm afraid we got here first. Don't interfere or we'll open fire.
TORRES: Don't you realize that core is highly unstable? If you try to tractor it like that you could cause an antimatter explosion.
PARIS: They're not answering.
TORRES: Idiots!
PARIS: We have to stop them from destroying the core.
TORRES: I'm going to try and disrupt their tractor beam.
PARIS: It's working.
PARIS: What was that?
TORRES: They sent an antimatter pulse back through our particle beam.
COMPUTER: Warning. Structural integrity field has been compromised. Now at fifty three percent and falling. Hull breach in two minutes twenty seconds.
TORRES: Reroute power from the propulsion and weapons systems.
COMPUTER: Warning. Hull breach in two minutes ten seconds.
PARIS: No effect.
COMPUTER: Warning. The structural integrity field has collapsed. Hull breach in two minutes.
PARIS: We have to get out of here.
COMPUTER: Warning. Hull breach in one minute fifty seconds.
PARIS: Computer, send a distress call to Voyager. Give them our coordinates. Computer, respond.
TORRES: The comm. systems must be down.
PARIS: Transporters are still online. Stand by to energize. Energize.

[Space]
PARIS: Paris to Voyager. Do you read me? Please respond. Paris to Voyager.
TORRES: It's no use. The comm. system in these suits won't carry that far.
PARIS: When they get the impulse engines repaired they'll come looking for us.
TORRES: Well, I don't plan on just drifting here hoping someone will just come along and rescue us. There must be something we can do.
PARIS: Agreed. If we could interplex the comm. systems in both suits we might be able to create a phased carrier wave. Voyager would read the signature and know it's from us.
TORRES: Good idea. Let me access your controls.
PARIS: I thought you'd never ask.
TORRES: That's it. This would be a lot easier if I had a hyperspanner. Hold still.
PARIS: Why is it we have to get beamed into space in environmental suits before I can initiate first contact procedures?
TORRES: Why is it that if we're alone for more than thirty seconds you start thinking about contact?
PARIS: Ah, that is not fair. The other day in Engineering I must have gone four minutes before I started thinking about it.
TORRES: Okay, I'm ready to initiate the carrier wave.
PARIS: Ah! Ah!
TORRES: Sorry. Better?
PARIS: Yeah. Let's hope it's still that strong by the time it gets to Voyager.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in. Would you like tea or coffee?
SEVEN: I have no need to ingest liquids. I still receive energy from the Borg alcove.
JANEWAY: My understanding is that you're almost ready to begin eating food.
SEVEN: That is what the doctor says. Why have you asked me here?
JANEWAY: Whenever there's an accident on the ship, even a minor one, we investigate it in order to minimize the chances of its happening again.
SEVEN: A prudent course of action.
JANEWAY: I didn't have a chance to talk to Lieutenant Torres before she left the ship, so I wanted to ask you some questions about what happened in Engineering. Sensor logs indicate the tachyons were leaking into the warp core. Do you have any idea how it started?
SEVEN: No. We had reconfigured the deflector shield to emit tachyon bursts. The procedure must have triggered the leak.
JANEWAY: Who was controlling the tachyon bursts?
SEVEN: Ensign Vorik.
JANEWAY: What were you doing?
SEVEN: Monitoring the transwarp frequencies.
JANEWAY: And did you at any time access deflector control?
SEVEN: You believe I'm responsible for the accident. That I deliberately sabotaged the ship. You are like the others, you see me as a threat.
JANEWAY: I won't lie to you. Part of me is suspicious. We've dealt with tachyon fields before and never had this kind of problem.
SEVEN: Captain. I am unaccustomed to deception. Among the Borg it was impossible. There were no lies, no secrets. And I assure you I had nothing to do with the accident in Engineering.
JANEWAY: I believe you. Thank you.
SEVEN: I am finding it a difficult challenge to integrate into this group. It is full of complex social structures that are unfamiliar to me. Compared with the Borg, this crew is inefficient and contentious, but it is capable of surprising acts of compassion.
JANEWAY: Unexpected acts of kindness are common among our group. That's one of the ways we define ourselves.
SEVEN: Is there anything more?
JANEWAY: Yes. We still have to find out what caused the tachyon leak. Tell me what you remember about the power fluctuations in the propulsion system.

[Space]
TORRES: This isn't anything like the simulations we had at the Academy. They felt peaceful, like floating in the womb. But right now I'm feeling a little sick to my stomach.
PARIS: You dropped out too soon. In the third year there's a six week course of actual spacewalks so you can get used to them.
TORRES: I never would have lasted to the third year. If I hadn't dropped out, they would have asked me to leave.
PARIS: I wish I'd known you then.
TORRES: You'd have hated me.
PARIS: I can't imagine a time I wouldn't have found you fascinating.
PARIS: What the hell was that?
TORRES: More ion turbulence.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen level at one hundred fourteen millibars.
PARIS: My oxygen supply is leaking.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen level at ninety three millibars.
TORRES: We'll have to share mine.
TORRES: Are you getting air now?
PARIS: Yes. Much better. Thanks. What's wrong?
TORRES: The turbulence must have damaged my suit too. I should have at least twenty four hours worth of oxygen, but there's only about a half hour left.

[Ready room]
VORIK (voiceover): Engineering to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Yes, Ensign.

[Engineering]
VORIK: I'm pleased to inform you that impulse power should be restored

[Ready Room]
VORIK (voiceover): Within the hour.
JANEWAY: Good news. Let me know the minute the engines are online.
VORIK (voiceover): Yes, ma'am.
SEVEN: Captain, I believe I've found the cause of the accident. Erratic fluctuations in the ship's warp power. When tachyon levels rose to a resonant frequency, core pressure increased.
JANEWAY: Then it was an accident. Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we've picked up a carrier wave with a Starfleet signature. I'd guess it's Tom and B'Elanna, but they're not answering our hails.
JANEWAY: They may be in trouble. As soon as we get impulse power
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to the captain. Can you come to the bridge?
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: We're being approached by an armada of Caatati ships.
KIM: They're hailing us.
JANEWAY: On screen.
LUMAS (screen): Hello, Captain.
JANEWAY: You've brought some friends.
LUMAS (screen): Needy friends. We're hoping you will offer us more supplies.
JANEWAY: I made it clear last time that we couldn't possibly you with enough for all your ships.
LUMAS (screen): And I had to accept that because your ship is more powerful than ours. But the situation has changed, hasn't it? You seem to be at a disadvantage now. We have your warp core. You can't escape. I'm hoping that'll make you more generous.
JANEWAY: We've given you everything we can spare. Return the core and we'll be on our way.
LUMAS (screen): One of our ships might not seem threatening to you, but I assure you, twenty seven can inflict considerable damage. We are desperate. Prepare to send us food, weapons, and your entire supply of thorium. And that Borg you're protecting. We want her too. There are many who'd enjoy a chance to repay one of them for what they did to us.

[Space]
PARIS: I'm lowering the oxygen ratio. That should give us a few more minutes.
TORRES: I'm feeling kind of groggy.
PARIS: Oxygen deprivation.
TORRES: And you're lowering it?
PARIS: We have to try to make it last as long as possible.
TORRES: It's ironic, isn't it.
PARIS: What?
TORRES: Today, the Day of Honor, is the day that I'm going to die.
PARIS: We are not going to die. Would you stop talking like that?
TORRES: We have to face up to it, Tom.
PARIS: There's something I've been wanting to ask you.
TORRES: Well, now's the time.
PARIS: When we first met, you didn't have a very high opinion of me.
TORRES: That's putting it mildly. I thought you were an arrogant, self- absorbed pig.
PARIS: Flattery won't get you any more oxygen. Do you think I've changed?
TORRES: A lot. Now you're a stubborn domineering pig. I'm just kidding. There I go again, just pushing you away. You were right about me. It's what I do, push people away.
PARIS: Well, it's a sure fire way of not getting hurt.
TORRES: What a coward I am.
PARIS: Shush.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Our weapons are more powerful than theirs. I say we fight.
KIM: Maybe if we give them something?
JANEWAY: Like what? I can't imagine what would satisfy them now.
SEVEN: I will go. They asked for me. If I surrender myself perhaps they'll let you leave.
JANEWAY: That's very generous, but I will not turn you over to them.
SEVEN: I was only offering to do what would be best for this group.
JANEWAY: You're part of this group now and we're going to protect you. It's time to stop talking about this. Tom and B'Elanna are in trouble and we have to find them. Tuvok, what's the status of our weapons array?
TUVOK: Weapons are at the ready, Captain, but our shield strength is extremely low.
JANEWAY: We'll have to shut down non-essential systems. Reroute power to the shields. We're going to fight.
SEVEN: That might not be necessary. Caatati technology is dependent on thorium isotopes. If they had enough they could become self-sustaining.
KIM: But we don't have that much thorium to give them.
SEVEN: When the Borg assimilated the Caatati, the survivors lost their ability to replicate the isotopes. But I have retained that knowledge. I could design an energy matrix that would produce thorium in large quantities.
CHAKOTAY: If you've had this knowledge all along, why didn't you say so?
SEVEN: I am not accustomed to thinking that way. Borg do not consider giving technology away, only assimilating it.
JANEWAY: And what do you suppose made you consider it now?
SEVEN: I am not certain.
JANEWAY: Maybe it was just an unexpected act of kindness. Work with Vorik to build the energy matrix, while I convince the Caatati there's a better way out of this.

[Science laboratory]
SEVEN: This matrix will produce nine hundred forty four grams of thorium per day.
JANEWAY: Now you can power all your systems and begin to rebuild your replication technology. Will you allow us to leave?
LUMAS: One device isn't enough for all our ships.
SEVEN: Using this matrix as a template you can construct as many as you like. We can provide you with components and specifications.
LUMAS: You are free to go. And thank you.
SEVEN: You're welcome.

[Space]
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen level at one hundred four millibars.
TORRES: Tom. Come on. Open your eyes.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen level at eighty seven millibars.
PARIS: I was having a dream.
TORRES: There's something I have to say.
PARIS: Me too. I'm glad the last thing I'll see is you.
TORRES: I've been a coward about everything. Everything that really matters.
PARIS: Now you're being a little hard on yourself.
TORRES: No. I'm going to die without a shred of honor. And for the first time in my life that really bothers me. So I have to tell you something. I
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen level at seventy one millibars.
TORRES: I have to tell you the truth.
PARIS: The truth about what?
TORRES: I love you. Say something.
PARIS: You picked a great time to tell me.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Voyager to Tom Paris. Tom, do you read me? Respond.
PARIS: We're here.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Prepare to beam aboard.

[Forest - night]
NAMON: Don't move.

[Camp - night]
BRONE: What's this?
NAMON: We found him in the trunks, a hundred footfalls past Grove Yellow.
BRONE: Arms?
NAMON: None, sir.
BRONE: These colors?
NAMON: We didn't ask.
BRONE: He's no Krady beast, is he?
NAMON: No, sir, but he doesn't bear Vori colors either.
BRONE: Hmm. His glimpse is too tame to be a Kradin.
NAMON: I hadn't fathomed that, sir.
BRONE: Well, fathom it now. He's no nemesis, is he?
NAMON: I'm not certain what he is, sir.
BRONE: Weren't you drilled to fathom the nemesis?
NAMON: Yes, sir.
BRONE: And we abhor none but the nemesis, do we?
NAMON: No, sir. None but the nemesis!
BRONE: Then set him loose. Didn't you hear, Novice?
CHAKOTAY: Thanks.
BRONE: Go take provisions.
NAMON: I'm sorry, sir.
BRONE: Go.
CHAKOTAY: I take it you're in charge here.
BRONE: Team Leader Brone, Fourth Vori Defense Contingent.
CHAKOTAY: Commander Chakotay of the starship Voyager.
BRONE: I'm very sorry for my defenders. They're new to the clash and glimpse the nemesis all around them.
CHAKOTAY: The clash. You're at war?
BRONE: You've strayed into the fullness of it.
CHAKOTAY: That explains why my shuttle came under fire.
BRONE: One of my defenders glimpsed a vessel falling in Grove Yellow. It must have been yours. Why fly so close to this sphere?
CHAKOTAY: I was on a survey mission. I picked up traces of omicron radiation in your atmosphere so I slowed down to take a look. As soon as I did that, I came under attack. I lost helm control and had to make an emergency transport to the surface.
BRONE: It'll be the Kradin that fired at you.
CHAKOTAY: The Kradin?
BRONE: Our nemesis.
CHAKOTAY: I see. Well, I tried to explain that I had no hostile intentions, but they just kept shooting.
BRONE: The nemesis crave supremacy in the air. They fire on any craft that doesn't show Kradin colors.
CHAKOTAY: I tried to contact my ship but my communicator's not working.
BRONE: All dispatching in the clash zone has been suppressed.
CHAKOTAY: I have to find my vessel. Maybe it's salvageable.
BRONE: That's little likely. We're ordered to cluster with the Seventh Contingent two new lights from now. They'll have means to signal your people. You can make the walk with us to meet them.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate the offer, but I can't wait two days. I have to find my vessel now.
BRONE: It wouldn't be sharp to return to the trunks. The nemesis is everywhere there.
CHAKOTAY: Then I'll have to do my best to steer clear of them.
BRONE: If your tactic won't change.
CHAKOTAY: It won't.
BRONE: It's sharper to wait for the new light.
CHAKOTAY: Then I'll take your advice and wait.
RAFIN: Provisions? It's not so savory.
CHAKOTAY: Thanks. I'm sure it'll be fine.
RAFIN: They call me Rafin.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay. Pleased to meet you.
RAFIN: In the trunks, did you glimpse any?
CHAKOTAY: Any what?
RAFIN: Krady beasts.
CHAKOTAY: No, I didn't.
NAMON: Rafin's never glimpsed the face of the nemesis either. Have you, Rafin?
RAFIN: No. It's my first walk in the clash zone.
NAMON: You'll glimpse them in the soon after. When you do, you'll fathom there's no heart thumping beneath their flesh. How many beasts will you send to the Wayafter, Rafin?
RAFIN: I couldn't say.
NAMON: Me, I'll nullify one for each brother and cousin that I've lost. And then one more after. True or not, my allies?
ALL: True.
NAMON: So I ask you again, Rafin. How many will you nullify?
RAFIN: As many as I'm able.
NAMON: You've got the trembles. If you don't wrestle your trembles to rages, ally, the nemesis'll nullify you.
CHAKOTAY: This nemesis of yours. Why do you call them beasts?
RAFIN: It's told they all wear the same horrid face. Their flesh is gnarled and blistery like the rotting trunks. Their glimpses flame like fire, And if you dare near enough, their breath stinks of muck.
CHAKOTAY: You know, sometimes people say terrible things about their enemies to make them seem worse than they really are. There might be some young Kradin soldier out there who's more afraid of you than you are of him.
RAFIN: The nemesis wasn't scared to fume my village, nor scared to nullify my cousins and brothers in their sleep. And my old mother's mother, too, who never told an unkind word nor nullified an insect in all her days and nights on this sphere.
CHAKOTAY: That's pretty rough.
RAFIN: And who but a Krady beast would leave the nullified bodies of mine and ours upturned, so they'll never descend to the gloried Wayafter?
CHAKOTAY: What do you mean by upturned?
BRONE: Which of you will walk with Chakotay to find his craft when the new light comes?
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate the offer, but I'll be fine on my own. l
BRONE: You don't fathom the trunks and you don't carry arms. One of my defenders will walk with you. Which will it be? You, Rafin.
RAFIN: Sir, I, I
NAMON: I'll walk with the stranger, sir. If any beast comes to clash, I'll nullify the beast.
BRONE: Well told, Namon. Now close your glimpses, defenders, and dream of your sisters and mothers.

[Forest - day]
NAMON: Have you never nullified another, stranger?
CHAKOTAY: Killing's the worst thing I've ever had to do.
NAMON: Then the nemesis you nullified wasn't half so beastly as the Kradin.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe not.
NAMON: In their glimpsers, we're less than nothing. They flame our homes, take our plantings, make playthings of our sisters. If you were a Vori you'd crave to drive them from this sphere just as I do.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe I would, if they did things like that to the people I loved. But on the sphere I come from we try to find other ways to resolve differences. Peaceful solutions, Negotiations.
NAMON: You don't fathom the nemesis.
CHAKOTAY: No. I suppose I don't.
NAMON: Beg the power you believe in that you never will. The light will be old soon. We'd be sharp to cluster with the others.
CHAKOTAY: In a few minutes. We should be getting close.
NAMON: You'd be sharp to do my tellings.
CHAKOTAY: Go back if you want to. I've got to keep looking.
NAMON: No, wait. I pledged to walk with you. Glimpse there.
CHAKOTAY: It doesn't look like there's much left of my shuttle.
NAMON: You'll have to make the walk with us to the Seventh Contingent.
CHAKOTAY: Don't make me kill you.
CHAKOTAY: How is he?
RAFIN: Nullified.
BRONE: We beg peace from the Power who made us Vori, and we commend our brother, Namon, to the gloried Wayafter.
CHAKOTAY: What's this?
BRONE: Namon's coverings.
CHAKOTAY: Shouldn't they go to his family or someone he was close to?
BRONE: It's a long walk to the cluster mark. It's sharper to blend with the trunks. Your fleet colors will get us all nullified.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry about what happened to Namon.
BRONE: The nemesis has nullified mine and ours in the before, and will in the now. But in the soonafter, we'll send them flying from this sphere and go back to our sisters and mothers.
BRONE: Take it.
CHAKOTAY: This isn't my war. I'm not planning to shoot anybody.
BRONE: If we greet the nemesis in the trunks, you'll fire like the rest. As long as you're with us, you do my tellings. Fathom?
CHAKOTAY: Fathom.
BRONE: Rafin.
RAFIN: Yes, sir.
BRONE: Drill Chakotay to fire Vori arms.
RAFIN: Now you. Your glimpse is too low. With these arms it's sharper to aim higher than the mark.
CHAKOTAY: You're good.
RAFIN: Don't mock me.
CHAKOTAY: I was paying you a compliment.
RAFIN: It is one matter to fire at clay marks, but much another to nullify the nemesis. That's what Namon told, and he told the truth before he went to the gloried Wayafter.
CHAKOTAY: He was right. Killing's not easy.
RAFIN: Risking my own days and nights to drive the nemesis from our sphere. That should be as easy as a long sleep.
CHAKOTAY: Who told you that?
RAFIN: My brothers and uncles who were in the clash. Brone my driller. And Namon, my ally, who was nullified because of me.
CHAKOTAY: You think it's your fault that Namon died?
RAFIN: If I didn't have the coward's trembles, I would have walked with you in the trunks. And it would be me and not he who went to the Wayafter.
CHAKOTAY: You weren't the one who pulled the trigger, Rafin. And there's no shame in being afraid of fighting. Having the trembles is natural.
RAFIN: How do you fathom that?
CHAKOTAY: Because I've been in battle before, fighting to free my people from a nemesis called the Cardassians.
RAFIN: These Cardassians, were they beasts?
CHAKOTAY: Let's just say they weren't very friendly. The point is, even though I believed in what we were doing, I always felt fear before a fight.
RAFIN: But you wrestled your trembles to rages, didn't you?
CHAKOTAY: I guess I did, but that doesn't mean
RAFIN: I was told to drill you, Chakotay. But it's you who've drilled me. Drilled me to fathom the rages.

[Forest - night]
CHAKOTAY: Brone.
BRONE: What is it?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know.
BRONE: Neck-strapped and upturned. Left to be cooked by the glare.
CHAKOTAY: He's one of yours?
BRONE: By his coverings he's of the Seventh Contingent. Likely a scout walker.
CHAKOTAY: Desecrated by the Kradin.
RAFIN: He'll never turn his face to the Wayafter.
BRONE: We're three hundred footfalls from the cluster mark. Signal the Seventh. Again.
RAFIN: Why don't they answer?
CHAKOTAY: Is it possible they moved their camp for some reason?
BRONE: Little likely. You two, fast walk to the cluster mark and glimpse what you can.
RAFIN: Sir.
BRONE: What?
RAFIN: Let me go.
BRONE: Well told, Novice. Keep the talk low and your glimpse wide.
RAFIN: Sir.
BRONE: What have you glimpsed?
RAFIN: The Seventh Contingent, sir. Nullified.
BRONE: What, all of them?
RAFIN: At least twenty defenders. And that's not the whole telling of it. They're all, they're all
BRONE: Tell it, Rafin. They're all how?
RAFIN: Like him, sir. Upturned. Staked to the dirt up and upturned.
BRONE: Those motherless Krady beasts. Do you glimpse the fullness of it now, stranger?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. I think I do.
BRONE: Now you fathom why we name them beasts and not men?
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry.
BRONE: We're much more than sorry, aren't we, defenders?
ALL: Yes, sir!
BRONE: The nemesis wants your plantings.
ALL: True, true.
BRONE: He wants your homes. He wants your sisters. But does it suffice him to nullify you? No. He craves to shame you, mock you, keep you from the gloried Wayafter! We're wearied of it, aren't we?
ALL: Yes sir!
BRONE: We're wrestled to the rages for it, aren't we?
ALL: Yes, sir!
BRONE: And we're not going to swallow it. Not in the now, or in the soonafter!
BRONE: Assault! Apply yourselves and fire back!
RAFIN: Motherless beasts!
CHAKOTAY: Rafin, no! Stay down!
RAFIN: I'll nullify you all!
CHAKOTAY: Hold on. I'm gonna get you out of here.
RAFIN: Please. Turn my face to the Wayafter.

[Larhana settlement - day]
PENNO: A defender. Mark, neighbors, a defender!
KARYA: Welcome to Larhana settlement, gloried defender. You're brightly greeted.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51082.4. After searching for more than two days we've finally located what's left of Commander Chakotay's shuttle. I can only hope the Commander has fared better than his vessel.

[Briefing room]
TUVOK: According to the ambassador, Chakotay's shuttle was hit by enemy fire and crash-landed somewhere on the southernmost continent.
JANEWAY: Right in the middle of the war zone.
TUVOK: I'm afraid so.
JANEWAY: Can we get a lock on him?
KIM: There's too much atmospheric radiation from weapons fire. We can't scan the surface.
TUVOK: Which means we don't know if he's still alive.
JANEWAY: Why don't we assume he still is?
PARIS: I should have gone with him.
JANEWAY: It's not your fault, Tom. We couldn't have anticipated this. What we've got to do now is figure out how to deal with it. B'Elanna, try to modify the scanners. Cut through the interference.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Neelix, what do you know about this war?
NEELIX: It's vicious. Ambassador Treen's people have been defending themselves against a particularly savage aggressor for more than a decade.
JANEWAY: Is the Ambassador willing to help us find Chakotay?
NEELIX: He's willing, but he may not be able.
TUVOK: His resources are extremely limited, and the situation on the surface is chaotic.
NEELIX: But he's assured me that if his troops do find Chakotay, he'll receive medical attention and be transported to the nearest command post.
TORRES: Let's hope he doesn't meet up with these savage aggressors first.
PARIS: Captain, let me lead a team down there and bring him back.
JANEWAY: I understand how you feel, Tom, but let's take it one step at a time. Tuvok, recontact Ambassador Treen. Ask for any tactical support he's willing to provide. Maps, weapons analyzes, intelligence reports. Before I risk anyone else's life I want to know exactly what we're getting ourselves into.

[Larhana settlement - night]
PENNO: By your coverings, you're a novice, defender. Do I tell the truth?
CHAKOTAY: Listen, there's been a misunderstanding. I'm not a defender. My shuttle was shot down by the Kradin and I landed in the clash zone. I met up with one of your patrols. They gave me this uniform.
PENNO: Which contingent?
CHAKOTAY: The Fourth.
MARNA: The Fourth? They're sturdy clashers.
PENNO: Tell us, did you and your allies drive the nemesis from the trunks?
CHAKOTAY: We put up a brave fight.
MARNA: Then you're a gloried defender even if you claim not to be.
PENNO: Marna tells the truth, Chakotay. You are welcome among my neighbors.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you. That's very kind.
MARNA: Do you crave anything more? Drink? Warm coverings?
CHAKOTAY: What I really need is some communications equipment to contact my crew.
PENNO: We have no means to signal your people.
MARNA: The Kradin drove us from our homes and plantings, and took all the machinery we had.
CHAKOTAY: Do you know where I might find some place with communications equipment?
PENNO: The restock unit.
CHAKOTAY: Can you tell me how to get there?
PENNO: It's not very near. At least ten thousand footfalls through the thick of the trunks.
CHAKOTAY: Then I'd better get started.
MARNA: The new light is coming. Rest till then.
PENNO: Yes, please, Chakotay. Rest until the new light.
CHAKOTAY: I think I will.
PENNO: Come, neighbors. Let's give defender Chakotay some quiet.
KARYA: I wanted to know if you crave more.
CHAKOTAY: No, thank you.
KARYA: Oh.
CHAKOTAY: But it was delicious.
KARYA: And the blossoms, do you like them? I planted them myself.
CHAKOTAY: They're very pretty.
KARYA: I've heard tellings that the Kradin leave our nullied defenders upturned. Is it true? You can tell me. Penno says I'm too small to be told, but I'm not.
CHAKOTAY: It's true the Kradin don't respect your beliefs.
KARYA: The Kradin are beasty. I don't fathom why they flamed our homes, nor why they crave to nully us all.
CHAKOTAY: I don't either.
KARYA: We never took their plantings. We never nullied their brothers. So why do they hate us?
CHAKOTAY: I wish I could tell you. Hate's not something I understand very well.
KARYA: My brother's a defender, too.
CHAKOTAY: Really?
KARYA: He left for the clash two plantings before. I was much smaller then. He was sturdy, and pleasing to glimpse in his colors. Like you. Maybe you've glimpsed him. He's called Daryo.
CHAKOTAY: There are a lot of soldiers in the war. I only met a few of them.
KARYA: He's a team leader of the Seventh Defense Contingent.
CHAKOTAY: The Seventh. Are you sure he was with the Seventh?
KARYA: They're very sturdy in the clash. Have you heard of them?
CHAKOTAY: The patrol I was with was supposed to rendezvous with them.
KARYA: Why didn't you? You would have glimpsed him.
CHAKOTAY: We were ambushed before we had the chance.
KARYA: But when you go back to the clash, maybe you'll glimpse Daryo then. You could take a letter to him.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not going back to the clash zone. I've got to get to the restock unit so I can contact my ship.
KARYA: Then you can bring my letter to the restock unit. Maybe some defender there can take it to Daryo. Will you do it? Please? I'll go write it now, before the new light comes.

[Larhana settlement - day]
CHAKOTAY: I wish you a good day.
PENNO: Thank you.
MARNA: Provisions for your long walk.
PENNO: Walk well, defender Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you both. You've all been very kind.
KARYA: Writings for my brother. You'll be sure he gets them?
CHAKOTAY: I'll do my best.
KARYA: Your best will be enough. The pretty smell of the blossoms will hold the nemesis far away.
CHAKOTAY: Then you'd better keep one for yourself.
KRADIN: Offer no opposition, or you will be nullified.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: No evidence of cellular residue on the shuttle wreckage, so there's a chance Chakotay survived the crash.
PARIS: Unfortunately the wreckage was found inside enemy territory,
TUVOK: So there is also a chance he has been captured or killed by the nemesis.
PARIS: There you go looking on the bright side again, Tuvok.
JANEWAY: What's this nemesis?
TUVOK: It is the term Ambassador Treen's people use to identify their enemy.
PARIS: Apparently, they're vicious. They shoot without warning, use biochemical weapons, routinely massacre civilians. If we run into them, it's safe to say they won't be hanging out a welcome sign.
JANEWAY: I want a team on the surface as soon as possible.
PARIS: I was hoping you'd say that. Tuvok, let's get moving.
TUVOK: I must caution you both my tactical analysis does not bode well for the success of such a mission. Given the situation in the battle zone, there is a very high probability that an away team will sustain heavy casualties.
PARIS: Are you saying we should just abandon Chakotay?
TUVOK: On the contrary.
JANEWAY: I suppose you've come up with an alternative plan?
TUVOK: Indeed. I have concluded that the least risky course of action is for a single crew member to make the infiltration, accompanied by a commando unit that Ambassador Treen has agreed to provide.
PARIS: Fine with me. When do I leave?
JANEWAY: Something tells me that's not what Tuvok has in mind.
TUVOK: Naturally, I am the logical person to carry out this mission.
PARIS: Naturally.

[Larhana settlement - night]
KRADIN: Get down there!
KARYA: Chakotay!
CHAKOTAY: I heard the explosions, and I came back to help.
KARYA: What did the Kradin do to you?
CHAKOTAY: They interrogated me. Where's your grandfather?
KARYA: I don't know. He's very gray, and his heart's not sturdy. He needs me to tend him.
CHAKOTAY: You. You! I want to talk to your superior. Hey, I'm talking to you! I want to know what you've done to this girl's grandfather. He's old and needs medical atte - Argh!
KARYA: Chakotay! Penno always tells it'll be brighter when the new light comes.
CHAKOTAY: Your grandfather's a wise man.
CHAKOTAY: That's right, get some sleep.
KARYA: You'll tend me, won't you, no matter what comes in the soonafter?
CHAKOTAY: Close your glimpsers, and dream of your gloried brother.

[Larhana settlement - day]
KRADIN (voiceover): Come along. Vori. Move along.
KARYA: Where are they taking them?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know.
MARNA: They'll be fast walked to the extermination facility.
KARYA: Why?
MARNA: Because they're gray and too long-lived the Kradin think them unfit for toiling. They won't make good servers like us.
KRADIN: Offer no resistance.
KARYA: Penno. Penno!
PENNO: Karya!
KARYA: Where are they taking you?
PENNO: Be sturdy, my daughter's daughter.
KARYA: Who's going to tend you?
PENNO: We'll glimpse each other again in the Wayafter.
KARYA: Set him loose!
CHAKOTAY: Karya!
KARYA: Set him loose!
KRADIN: Be still!
CHAKOTAY: Keep your hands off her. Don't touch her!
COMMANDANT: What's the matter, pretty one?
KARYA: Set my mother's father loose.
COMMANDANT: Is that the man you mean?
PENNO: No! Karya!
KARYA: Please, set him loose!
COMMANDANT: You don't want to see him suffer, do you, pretty one?
KARYA: No.
COMMANDANT: Don't worry. The old Vori's suffering will be over soon enough.
KARYA: No! Penno!
COMMANDANT: Take this shrieking waif to the extermination facility.
KARYA: No. Chakotay, set me loose! Chakotay, help me!
CHAKOTAY: Motherless beast!

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: Are Ambassador Treen and his soldiers ready to beam aboard?
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Energize.
JANEWAY: Welcome aboard, Ambassador. Thank you for agreeing to help us find our crewman.
TREEN: Your thanks are unnecessary, Captain. Any victim of our bloodthirsty nemesis, the Vori, will always find friends among the Kradin people.

[Forest - day]
BRONE: Chakotay. Be calm now. I'll set you loose. Sorry to leave you upturned so long, but I had to shroud myself in the trunks till the Kradin walked on.
CHAKOTAY: The villagers, from Larhana settlement?
BRONE: They were fast walked through the trunks.
CHAKOTAY: And your defenders?
BRONE: All nullified.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you for coming back for me. You put yourself at risk.
BRONE: And you, Chakotay, clashed beside us against the Kradin though you are a stranger to this sphere. I glimpsed you chancing your days and nights to save Rafin from our nemesis.
CHAKOTAY: You tell the truth when you name them beasts. What will you do now that your men are gone?
BRONE: Join with the Fifth Contingent. They're trying to free the villagers. It doesn't go brightly for them.
CHAKOTAY: I'll come with you.
BRONE: No. I'll bring you to command. You can signal your people.
CHAKOTAY: That can wait till the soonafter. In the now, you need my help to nullify the nemesis.

[Forest - night]
BRONE: Back walk! Back walk! The nemesis is nearing. It's sharper to back walk.
CHAKOTAY: Brone!
KRADIN (voiceover): Vori soldiers! You are surrounded. Lay down your arms and surrender.
KRADIN (voiceover): Hold your fire!
CHAKOTAY: You'll have to nullify me first!
KRADIN: Hold your fire, Commander Chakotay. Do not fire, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: How do you know my name?
KRADIN: I am Lieutenant Tuvok,
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok? Don't walk any closer!
KRADIN: I've come to take you back to Voyager.
BRONE: Nullify him, Chakotay. It's a Kradin tactic.
KRADIN: I assure you, Commander, this is no ruse. It is Lieutenant Tuvok. Don't you recognize me?
BRONE: He's the nemesis!
CHAKOTAY: You're a Kradin beast. You destroyed that village, nullified Penno, took away Karya. She was only a child!
KRADIN: They've brainwashed you, Commander. Look closer. Try to recall. Your shuttle was shot down. These people, the Vori, they captured you.
CHAKOTAY: No, they rescued me.
TUVOK: That is what they want you to believe. They have been indoctrinating you, training you to fight their war.
CHAKOTAY: Take one more step and I'll nullify you.
TUVOK: You are Commander Chakotay of the starship Voyager. You are a scientist, an explorer. You are not a killer.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok.
TUVOK: Yes, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: How can you wear those colors? They're Kradin. They're beasts, murderers.
TUVOK: On the contrary, they are the ones who helped us locate you. We tracked you to a Vori training camp. We infiltrated the facility, but you were gone. They had already brought you here to fight this battle. Before today, nothing you experienced here was real. It is the method the Vori use to conscript and train soldiers.
CHAKOTAY: I don't believe you!
TUVOK: I will prove it to you if you will lower your weapon.

[Larhana settlement - day]
TUVOK: Do you recognize this place?
CHAKOTAY: It's Larhana settlement.
PENNO: A defender. Mark, neighbors, a defender! Defender. Karya.
KARYA: Welcome to Larhana settlement, gloried defender. You are brightly greeted.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51096.5 Although Lieutenant Tuvok has managed to bring Commander Chakotay safely back to the ship, it may be some time before his psychological wounds are fully healed.

[Sickbay]
EMH: My guess is the Vori used a combination of mind control techniques, including photometric projections, heightened emotional stimuli, and highly sophisticated psychotropic manipulation. From the condition of your hypothalamus, I'd say they had you so mixed up they could have convinced you your own mother was a turnip.
CHAKOTAY: Everything I experienced was some sort of simulation?
JANEWAY: Except for the battle you were fighting when Tuvok found you. Apparently, attacking the simulated Commandant marked your graduation from basic training.
CHAKOTAY: And the men I fought beside, none of them was real? Namon and Rafin weren't killed in front of me?
JANEWAY: As far as we can tell, they were part of the simulation. The idea was to make you bond with your fellow soldiers as well as the villagers, so their deaths would enrage you.
CHAKOTAY: Why me?
JANEWAY: Luck of the draw. You happened to be passing through their space and you were as promising a recruit as anyone else. We've been told the Vori have dozens of these training facilities where they conscript their own people, and any aliens they're able to capture.
EMH: In short, Commander, you've been subjected to a highly sophisticated form of propaganda.
CHAKOTAY: Then the Kradin don't kill innocent civilians? They don't desecrate the Vori's dead?
JANEWAY: I don't know. But the Kradin accuse the Vori of the same kinds of atrocities.
CHAKOTAY: I cared about the Vori, but I hated the Kradin. I wanted to kill every one of them.
JANEWAY: Evidently, that was the point.
NEELIX: Captain. Ambassador Treen would like a word with the Commander.
TREEN: I wish to tell you how pleased my people are to hear of your recovery. I'm only sorry we weren't able to rescue you sooner from our nemesis. Have I said something wrong?
NEELIX: I don't know.
CHAKOTAY: If you'll excuse me, Captain.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Chakotay?
CHAKOTAY: I wish it were as easy to stop hating as it was to start.

[Command chamber]
DEJAREN: To any vessels within range. I hope this message reaches you. I'm an HD25 Isomorphic Projection. There's been an accident. My crew is dead. I'm alone. Please, help me.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: So we rigged the security console so that every time Tuvok accessed the internal sensors it would play a little message.
KIM: Live long and prosper.
PARIS: No matter what button he pushed, live long and prosper.
KIM: Naturally, no one was available to fix the malfunction
PARIS: So Tuvok had to stretch his Vulcan patience to the limit for the rest of the day.
KIM: I swear you could hear him grinding his teeth from across the bridge.
PARIS: And just when he thought it was over, when he went back to his quarters and ordered a cup of Vulcan tea, the replicator says
KIM: Live long and prosper!
JANEWAY: The first time I met Tuvok he dressed me down in front of three Starfleet admirals for failing to observe proper tactical procedures during my first command. My human ego took a little bruising, but, of course, he was right. Over the past nine years I've come to rely on his insightful and unfailingly logical advice. For outstanding services, Chief Tactical and Security Officer, it's my pleasure to grant you the rank of Lieutenant Commander. Congratulations, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Thank you, Captain. Had I known this commendation entailed ritual humiliation, I might have declined. However, I accept it with gratitude and will honor the responsibility that comes with it. During my three years on Voyager I have grown to respect a great many of you. Others I have learned to tolerate. As your Tactical Officer, I will continue to do my best to ensure a safe passage home. As a Vulcan, I share the following sentiment. Live long and prosper.
JANEWAY: Bravo. Well deserved.

[Corridor]
PARIS: B'Elanna, this is ridiculous. It's been three days and we haven't said a word to each other.
TORRES: I know, I know. We have to talk.
PARIS: About what you said. I mean, the part about being in love with me. I realize you were suffering from oxygen deprivation and we were literally seconds away from death, so I know you probably didn't mean it.
TORRES: No, no, I meant it. But I don't expect you to reciprocate. Really, you can just pretend that I didn't say it. In fact let's just pretend that I didn't
PARIS: Shut up.
EMH: Mister Paris, there you are.
TORRES: I was just leaving. Lieutenant.
PARIS: What can I do for you, Doc?
EMH: The Captain has authorized me to recruit someone with advanced medical training to help out in Sickbay. Unfortunately, the most qualified crewmember is you.
PARIS: You want me to be the new nurse?
EMH: If that's the title you prefer. It will only be temporary. Three duty shifts a week. Report to Sickbay and oh six hundred hours. Bring a tricorder and a smile.

[Mess hall]
KIM: What kind of modifications?
CHAKOTAY: We've like to enhance the Astrometrics lab. It hasn't been upgraded since Voyager left spacedock.
KIM: I'll start right away.
CHAKOTAY: I've assigned Seven of Nine to work with you. She's agreed to provide us with all the navigational data for this area she acquired during her time with the Borg. Is there a problem?
KIM: No. No problem.
CHAKOTAY: Try to make her feel like part of the team.
KIM: Right. Part of the team.
JANEWAY: Have you made arrangement for the Arritheans for tomorrow?
NEELIX: The delegate says he's looking forward to trading with such an advanced starship.
JANEWAY: You've done an excellent job preparing for this mission, Neelix. I think you should consider this your first official assignment as Ambassador.
CULHANE (voiceover): Ensign Culhane to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.
CULHANE (voiceover): We are receiving an automated distress call five light years from here. You might want to bring the Doctor.

[Bridge]
DEJAREN (screen): I'm an HD25 Isomorphic Projection. There's been an accident. My crew is dead. I'm alone. Please, help me.
EMH: He's a hologram. We've got to help him. Ensign, track the source of the transmission.
EMH: Once we find the ship, I'll lead an away team.
JANEWAY: I don't recall giving you a promotion today.
EMH: Oh. Well, I'm the obvious choice to provide assistance to a holographic being.
JANEWAY: Doctor, I don't want you leaving Voyager unless it's absolutely necessary. I'm still concerned about damaging your mobile emitter.
EMH: I understand. But if this is a hologram, one of my own kind so to speak, I'd like to meet him, study him. I'll bring Lieutenant Torres just to be safe. She knows more about my emitter than anyone.
JANEWAY: The rest of us will meet with the Arritheans. We'll see you there, when you're finished.
EMH: Thank you, Captain.

[Cargo Bay two]
KIM: Seven?
SEVEN: I am here.
SEVEN: Am I to work with you?
KIM: Oh, hi. Yes, I thought we'd start in Jefferies tube thirty two B. Enhance the astrometric sensors, if that's okay with you. Unless this is a bad time. Maybe I can come back later.
SEVEN: Ensign Kim, you seem apprehensive.
KIM: No, not at all.
SEVEN: The last time we worked together, I struck you at the base of your skull and attempted to contact the Collective.
KIM: These things happen.
SEVEN: I assure you it will not happen again.
KIM: That's good to know.
SEVEN: I've designed new navigational sensors. Some of the alphanumerics are Borg.
KIM: No problem. I always wanted to learn Borg.
SEVEN: That is difficult to believe.
KIM: I was kidding. It was a joke. You know, humor.
SEVEN: I understand the concept of humor. It may not be apparent, but I am often amused by human behavior.

[Shuttlecraft]
TORRES: Relax, Doctor. I'm sure we'll find the ship.
EMH: That's not what I'm concerned about. I've been questioning the wisdom of leaving Mister Paris in charge of my Sickbay.
TORRES: Tom will do fine. He's a very responsible guy.
EMH: Well, I suppose you'd know better than I would.
TORRES: What's that supposed to mean?
EMH: You seem to have become good friends.
TORRES: Let's get one thing straight. I don't appreciate you or anyone else speculating about the kind of friendships I have. Or who I have them with.
EMH: Sorry, I didn't realize I'd struck a nerve. Perhaps you'd like a tranquilizer.
TORRES: There it is.
EMH: That's his ship? Try hailing it.
TORRES: No response.
EMH: Lifesigns?
TORRES: A few energy readings, but they're erratic. Propulsion and main power are down.
EMH: We're approaching transporter range.

[Command chamber]
EMH: Hello? Is anyone here? We're here to help you.
TORRES: No signs of life?
EMH: Not yet.
TORRES: I'd like to check your mobile emitter, make sure you made it through the transport okay.
EMH: For a Klingon, you have a decent bedside manner.
TORRES: Thanks.
EMH: I wonder what kind of bedside manner Mister Paris will exhibit? That was a rhetorical question, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Your holographic matrix is stable, Let me check your emitter's power cells.
EMH: You might want to consider a career in medicine.
TORRES: Where the hell did this come from?
DEJAREN: Sorry. Sorry, sorry. I didn't mean to frighten you.
EMH: You sent the distress call?
DEJAREN: Yes, yes, that's me. It was me. And you, you're an isomorph like myself?
EMH: We use the term hologram.
DEJAREN: Hologram. And you, you're a hologram too?
TORRES: No.
DEJAREN: You're organic.
TORRES: Ah, that's one way of putting it, yes.
TORRES: It looks like your program is fairly compatible with our holographic technology. Can you tell me where I can access your projection controls?
DEJAREN: Why?
TORRES: You're obviously malfunctioning. Maybe I can repair you.
DEJAREN: Oh, of course. I'd appreciate that. Over there. You can access my systems from that console.
EMH: What happened here?
DEJAREN: Oh, it was terrible, just terrible. You see, we left Seros eight months ago. Seros, that's our home planet. With a crew of six.
EMH: All isomorphic projections?
DEJAREN: No, just me. I'm an HD25 maintenance unit with extreme hazard clearance. I'm responsible for cleaning the reactor core, ejecting antimatter waste, that sort of thing. When the crew got sick there was nothing I could do. I'm not designed for medical functions. I, I
EMH: Try to calm down. Explain what happened one step at a time.
DEJAREN: Two of the crew members left to survey a planet. When they came back they'd been infected by a deadly virus. It spread quickly to the other organics on board, and one by one, well, I watched them all die. Then things started to malfunction here. I've limited knowledge of the controls. I don't know what I would have done if you hadn't come.
TORRES: I think I've stabilized your program, but I'll need access to your primary isomatrix. Where is it?
DEJAREN: On the lower deck. You, you shouldn't go down there.
TORRES: Why not?
DEJAREN: Too dangerous. That deck's been flooded with antimatter radiation. Organic flesh would disintegrate within seconds. You can access my isomatrix from this deck. There's an interface junction in that compartment.
TORRES: Thanks.
EMH: Mind if I run a quick diagnostic?
DEJAREN: What's your name?
EMH: I don't have a name. It's a long story.
DEJAREN: I'd like to hear it, and everything else about you.

[Jefferies tube 32B]
SEVEN: I'm ready to supply power to the enhanced sensors.
KIM: What? Already?
SEVEN: Yes. You believe that my work is unsuitable?
KIM: Of course not. Just checking. Standard procedure.
SEVEN: I may no longer possess Borg perfection, but my experience as a drone has taught me to be efficient and precise.
KIM: Actually, you've misaligned this optical assembly.
SEVEN: Impossible.
KIM: Take a look. It's off by point five degrees.
SEVEN: It must have been my humanity reasserting itself. I will correct the error.
KIM: So, what do you do for fun down in Cargo Bay two?
SEVEN: Fun?
KIM: You know. Relaxation, entertainment, during your off hours.
SEVEN: I regenerate in my alcove. I study the Starfleet database, and I contemplate my existence.
KIM: That's a lot of time by yourself.
SEVEN: It is. The optical assembly is properly aligned. I'm ready to access the main power supply.
KIM: After you.
KIM: Wait! What are you doing? There are five million gigawatts running through there!
SEVEN: The exoskeleton on this limb can withstand it.
KIM: That's all well and good, but there are safety procedures we've got to follow.
SEVEN: Your procedures are a waste of time.
KIM: Maybe so, but you've been assigned to me and I say we do this by the book. All right?
SEVEN: All right.
KIM: Well, now that we've got that cleared up.

[Command chamber]
DEJAREN: You can use this emitter to go anywhere?
EMH: Well, my Captain has imposed a few restrictions. But I'm free to leave Sickbay, join away missions, take a stroll.
DEJAREN: Extraordinary. I've never left this vessel before. And until the crew got sick, I ever even left the antimatter storage chamber. Do you know what it's like spend your life trapped inside a tiny room, not knowing what's beyond the door, what the world is really like? Nobody coming to see you or talk to you unless they want something?
EMH: Actually, I know exactly what it's like. When I was first activated I was regarded as little more than a talking tricorder. I had to ask for the privileges I deserved. The right to be included in crew briefings, the ability to turn my program on and off. It's taken some time, but I believe I've earned the respect of the crew as an equal.
DEJAREN: An equal?
EMH: I've also been pursuing personal interests. Art, literature, music. Perhaps you could do the same.
DEJAREN: Oh, no, no, no. My programrs on Seros would never allow that.
EMH: Then you'll convince them. Maybe they'll appreciate how well you've coped with this situation, how you've managed to find help. Think about it. You've already exceeded the sum of your subroutines.
EMH: What are you doing?
DEJAREN: Nothing. Er, nothing. I'm just sterilizing the ship. I'm fastidious about germs. I know that must sound strange coming from an artificial being.
EMH: Not at all. I've been known to act a little strangely myself.

[Interface junction compartment]
DEJAREN: Hungry? You're organic. You require nutrients. They're only rations but our crew liked them.
TORRES: Careful! That's an isomimetic conduit. You could destabilize your matrix.
DEJAREN: Of course. How stupid of me. I'm sorry, I shouldn't have barged in here.
TORRES: It's all right. I could use a break. Thank you.
DEJAREN: You nibble, like a fish.
TORRES: I'll take that as a compliment.
DEJAREN: Oh, it is. I've never seen a fish before, not a real one, but I've read about them on our database. Fish aren't like other organics. They're more passive, I think, most of them. And so clean. Is there anything I can do to help with repairs?
TORRES: As soon as I'm done with lunch, you could help me access your primary matrix.
DEJAREN: Gladly.
TORRES: Is something wrong?
DEJAREN: Seeing the ship ripped apart like this, it's. I, I guess I can't help feeling a kind of affinity for this vessel. It sustains my existence. Sometimes I feel like it's a part of my body, my soul. That probably sounds silly to you.
TORRES: No. No, I understand how you feel.
DEJAREN: You couldn't possibly understand how I feel. You're an organic. You exist apart from your ship. I understand how you feel.
TORRES: I'm sorry, I didn't mean to offend you.
DEJAREN: You're the one who's trapped, not me. You spend your entire life stuck inside a biological cage of flesh and bone and blood.
TORRES: Right. I'm going to go give the Doctor an update.
DEJAREN: I exist as pure energy, but you depend on food and water to survive. Frankly, I find it disgusting. Look at you, Look at you. Grinding up bits of plants and animals with your teeth. Secreting saliva to force it down your esophagus into a pit of digestive acids. You can't even stand to think about it yourself. What a repulsive creature you are! Constantly shedding your skin and hair, leaving your oily sweat on everything you touch. You think that you are the height of intellect in the universe, but you are no better than any filthy animal and I am ashamed to be made in your image! My apologies. My apologies. I have acquired some hostility towards organics. It was not meant for you. I was treated quite badly by the crew here.
TORRES: I'm sorry to hear that. But you have to realize that we're here to help you. Thanks for the rations.

[Command chamber]
TORRES: We've got a problem.
EMH: Oh?
TORRES: I think there's a problem with our isomorph and I'm not talking about his emitters.
EMH: Explain.
TORRES: I've just spent the last ten minutes hearing his views on biological life. Let's just say they're a bit unconventional. Did you realize that we organics are a bunch of inferior, disgusting animals?
EMH: Now that you mention it.
TORRES: He started ranting about how much he despises organics. I didn't think I was going to get out of there without a fight.
EMH: I will admit he is somewhat socially inept.
TORRES: Inept? He's a lunatic.
EMH: That is hardly a sound medical diagnosis.
TORRES: He has also been lying to us. I just ran a tricorder scan of the lower deck. The one he said was flooded with radiation? Well, it's not.
EMH: Why would he lie about that?
TORRES: I don't know. Maybe he doesn't want us to go down there. Maybe he's hiding something.
EMH: I understand your concerns, Lieutenant. I've been talking to him as well, and I recognize that he has some behavioral difficulties. But imagine what he's been through. Trapped in a room no bigger than a storage compartment. And he's had almost no interaction with organic beings. It's only natural he'd developed problems communicating, even a little resentment. Do you recall my own behavior when I was first activated?
TORRES: How could I forget? You were a major pain in the
EMH: My point is, I too was somewhat alienated from the rest of the crew. It took me a few days to master the social graces.
TORRES: I realize that he is a fellow hologram and that you are committed to helping him, but I want the ability to shut down his program if I have to.
EMH: If you really feel that's necessary.
TORRES: I'm going to search the lower deck, see if I can access his primary isomatrix. You keep him occupied until I get back. I don't think he'd appreciate a filthy animal like me snooping around
DEJAREN: Am I interrupting?
TORRES: No. Actually, I was just leaving.
DEJAREN: I'd like you to meet someone. Doctor, this is Spectrum.
EMH: A holographic fish?
DEJAREN: Magnificent, isn't he? So peaceful, and so content. I programmed him to keep me company. Don't you have a pet?
EMH: Oh, it wouldn't be appropriate, not in a medical environment.
DEJAREN: They wouldn't let me have one either. I had to hide him.
EMH: He's very lifelike. I didn't realize you had such a talent for holographic design.
DEJAREN: Oh, I've programmed all sorts of things.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: This node contains Borg navigational data.
KIM: How do we get it out of here?
SEVEN: The proper instrument was part of my thoracic assembly before the Doctor removed it. I suggest a radical dislocation.
KIM: A what?
SEVEN: We need to pull it out. Assist me.
KIM: Okay. On three.
SEVEN: Three?
KIM: On the count of three we pull together.
SEVEN: Crude, but effective.
KIM: One, two, three.
SEVEN: I've been damaged.
KIM: Ooo, that looks pretty bad. You'd better get to Sickbay.
SEVEN: As a drone I would have regenerated within seconds. I've become weak.
KIM: No more than the rest of us. You'll be fine. Come on, I'll walk you there.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: Another half a millimeter and you would have severed the carpal nerve. I'd have had to operate. You're a mere mortal now. As your family doctor, I suggest you be more careful. There, good as new.
KIM: I'll see you back in the Cargo Bay.
KIM: What kind of bedside manner was that?
PARIS: What are you talking about?
KIM: Can't you see she's feeling vulnerable, and here you are going on about severed nerves and major surgery.
PARIS: Take it easy. I was just trying to lighten the mood. She wasn't upset by it.
KIM: Yes she was. I can see it on her face.

[Doctor's office]
PARIS: You seem a little protective. This morning you were dreading being in the same room with her.
KIM: Well, I've gotten to know her a little better. I don't think most people realize she's not just some Borg automaton. She's actually very complex.
PARIS: Oh, really?
KIM: Yes, she is. She's even got a sense of humor. It's offbeat, a bit subtle maybe, and she's incredibly intelligent.
PARIS: She ought to be. She assimilated enough people.
KIM: See? See what I mean? It's Borg this, Borg that. You can't resist making a joke. There's a woman in there, if you'd take the time to look.
PARIS: Harry, you've got a crush on her, don't you?
KIM: What? No, not at all. Maybe just a little.
PARIS: I've seen this look in your eyes right before you fall head over heels. You always go for the tough ones. What was it last time, a hologram? I don't know much about Borg women, but my advice to you is, don't.
KIM: Just trying to make her feel like part of the team.
PARIS: Part of the team? You sound like Chakotay. Look, she's beautiful, and she's smart, and I'm sure she's a wonderful conversationalist. But a month ago she was Borg. You don't really know who she is. It's great that you're trying to make her feel comfortable. Just be careful.
KIM: Thanks for the advice.
PARIS: I just hope you take it.

[Command chamber]
EMH: Now that we're clear on the helm controls
DEJAREN: This is a lot to learn.
EMH: You're doing fine. It's vital that you familiarize yourself with all the ship's systems so you can be more self-sufficient. Here are the environmental controls and life support functions.
DEJAREN: Well, I won't need those any more. No crew to worry about.
EMH: Not at the moment.
DEJAREN: Fifty nine point two percent.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
DEJAREN: That's how much power went into life support. Fifty nine point two percent. Just to keep them breathing, warm, comfortable.
EMH: They do require quite a bit of maintenance, don't they?
DEJAREN: I should know. I spent my entire existence cleaning up after them. When they were busy sleeping or reading, or engaging in their slovenly carnal pleasures.
EMH: And this is the sensor grid. You'll find it most useful when you want to scan
DEJAREN: They took advantage of me. I wish I'd been more like you. You showed me that I could be more than a slave to these biological creatures.
DEJAREN: I'm not taking this ship back to the organics. I won't return to that existence.
EMH: It's a little extreme, don't you think?
DEJAREN: Join me. Leave Voyager. Escape your prison. Together we'll take this vessel and explore the galaxy.

[Projection control]
TORRES: There you are.

[Command chamber]
DEJAREN: Don't look so surprised. You gave me the idea!
EMH: Me?
DEJAREN: You said I should be more self-sufficient.
EMH: I agree that we should be treated equally as members of the crew. But we're still projections of energy and light. We have limitations.
DEJAREN: No! No! No, no, no, no, no! We don't need nourishment, we don't suffer disease. We're the higher form of life.
EMH: What's that?
DEJAREN: Lower deck. Someone's trying to access my matrix. I'll be back.

[Projection control]
DEJAREN: You.
DEJARAN: No. No!
EMH: B'Elanna! Ensign Kim personal log, stardate 51186.2. Working with Seven of Nine is starting to get a little awkward. Tom's right. Anything more than friendship is a bad idea. But I can't stop thinking about her.

[Mess hall]
SEVEN: You wish to see me, Ensign?
KIM: I had this midnight inspiration about reconfiguring astrometric projectors. I hope you weren't regenerating.
SEVEN: I was not.
KIM: This is tricky stuff. It could use your touch. Your way of looking at things. A fresh perspective.
SEVEN: Your data.
KIM: Why don't you sit down?
SEVEN: I prefer to stand.
KIM: This could take a while. You'd be more comfortable.
SEVEN: Comfort is irrelevant. We're here to work.
KIM: Okay.
SEVEN: This light is insufficient.
KIM: But it's relaxing, don't you think? After hours, quiet. Voyager isn't all Jefferies tubes and cargo bays, you know. Tell you what, when we're done here, I'll take you to the holodeck. We'll run the Ktarian moonrise simulation. It's beautiful.
SEVEN: Beauty is irrelevant. Unless you wish to change the nature of our affiliation.
KIM: What do you mean?
SEVEN: I may be new to individuality, but I am not ignorant of human behavior. I've noticed your attempts to engage me in idle conversation, and I see the way your pupils dilate when you look at my body.
KIM: I don't know what you're talking about.
SEVEN: Obviously you've suggested a visit to the holodeck in the hopes of creating a romantic mood. Are you in love with me, Ensign?
KIM: Well, no.
SEVEN: Then you wish to copulate?
KIM: No! I mean. I, I don't know what I mean.
SEVEN: All of these elaborate rituals of deception. I didn't realize becoming human again would be such a challenge. Sexuality is particularly complex. As Borg we had no need for seduction, no time for single cell fertilization. We saw a species we wanted and we assimilated it. Nevertheless, I am willing to explore my humanity. Take off your clothes.
KIM: Er, Seven.
SEVEN: Don't be alarmed. I won't hurt you.
KIM: Look, this is a little sudden. I was just trying to. Part of the team, you know? Maybe we should just quit for now.
SEVEN: All right. Let me know when you wish to resume our work.

[Projection control]
EMH: It's all right, B'Elanna. You're safe.
TORRES: The isomorph?
EMH: Apparently you deactivated him.
TORRES: I took all of his emitters offline.
EMH: Not a moment too soon. I found six corpses on this deck, all of them murdered. You almost became number seven.
TORRES: Ah! Oh, what did he do to me?
EMH: He reached inside your chest, grabbed your heart, and perforated your fourth ventricle.
TORRES: Great.
EMH: I've stabilized your pericardium, but I'm concerned about the internal bleeding.
TORRES: Prognosis?
EMH: Less than stellar unless I can get you back to Voyager. Unfortunately I'm having trouble accessing our transporters.
TORRES: He must have disabled our comm. link to the shuttle. Help me get to the command chamber.

[Command chamber]
TORRES: Looks like he set up a dampening field. I think I can cut through it, but I'll need to open this control panel. My engineering kit, it's on that console.
EMH: B'Elanna, I thought you said you took all the emitters offline.
TORRES: I did. Why?
EMH: I think you'd better double-check.
DEJAREN: You said you'd help me.
EMH: Put that down.
DEJAREN: You lied. You lied to me. I thought you were my friend.
EMH: It's for your own benefit. Someone needs to repair your program. It's malfunctioning. You're unstable.
DEJAREN: No, no, no! You're unstable. You're a hologram who thinks like an organic.
EMH: This could get tedious.
DEJAREN: Freedom. Oh, you're getting blood everywhere. I'm going to have to deactivate you.
EMH: Is he?
TORRES: Deactivated.
EMH: And you?
TORRES: Ready to get out of here.

[Chakotay's office]
CHAKOTAY: Come in.
KIM: We've completed the schematics for the Astrometrics lab.
CHAKOTAY: Already? You and Seven must have been putting in a lot of extra hours on this.
KIM: She's not much for procrastinating.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure she's not. Looks like you're ready to begin construction.
KIM: It might be better, more practical, to bring in an engineering team for that.
CHAKOTAY: Recruit all the help you need.
KIM: In fact, they should probably take over at this point.
CHAKOTAY: Don't you want to supervise their work? The Astrometrics lab is your baby.
KIM: I would, of course. Er, I just don't think that would be the best use of ship's personnel.
CHAKOTAY: Oh, I can rearrange the duty shifts.
KIM: Oh, no, Commander, you don't have to do that. I'm sure Seven can handle things without me.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, are you having some kind of problem with her?
KIM: No, no problem.
CHAKOTAY: Because if you are, I'd like to hear about it.
KIM: No sir, there's no problem. Not at all. Absolutely not. Er, so if you'll excuse me, I'll be going now.
CHAKOTAY: Ensign Kim. Let's have it.
KIM: We had a misunderstanding.
CHAKOTAY: About?
KIM: It's nothing really important. Just your basic Borg - human cultural differences.
CHAKOTAY: Really? That's not what she says.
KIM: You, you, you spoke, you spoke to her?
CHAKOTAY: She seems to think you're making good progress. She finds you reasonably efficient, and says you've been helping her learn more about our complex social interactions. Any idea what she meant by that?
KIM: Can't imagine.
CHAKOTAY: You two make a good team. I want to keep you together on this project.
KIM: Sir. Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: And maybe others in the future. Have fun.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've stopped the internal bleeding, and repaired the tissue damage. Your pericardium is clean as a whistle. Which is more than I can say for my Sickbay.
PARIS: I'm sorry about the mess. I haven't had time to clean up. It was a hectic day. I treated two broken bones, an upset stomach and a lacerated hand.
TORRES: Does this mean you're too tired to meet later, in my quarters?
PARIS: Are you sure your heart can take it?
EMH: I'm detecting elevated hormonal levels. If you two don't take it easy, I'll have to declare a medical emergency.
PARIS: If you'll excuse me, I have to go check on Harry. I hear he's having a nervous breakdown. It's a long story.
EMH: Not so fast, Mister Paris. You are going to help me sterilize every square millimeter of this Sickbay. No doubt you've left your oily residue on every hypospray, your sloughed secretions on every console. Just kidding. In fact, I've had a change of heart about my fastidiousness. A little clutter never hurt anyone. Sickbay should have a more organic touch, don't you think? To help our patients feel more at home.
PARIS: What's gotten into him?
TORRES: It's a long story.

[Holodeck - Da Vinci Workshop]
JANEWAY: It's not as difficult as it looks. The first rule is, don't be afraid of the clay.
SEVEN: I fear nothing.
JANEWAY: I mean you can't concern yourself with making a mistake, or whether the image you had in your mind is what's taking form in front of you. You just have to let your hands and the clay do the work. Here.
JANEWAY: Go ahead. I think the nose could be a little stronger.
JANEWAY: Well, that's a start. Keep going.
SEVEN: This activity is truly unproductive. The end result has no use. No necessary task has been accomplished. Time has been expended. Nothing more.
JANEWAY: That depends on how you look at it, doesn't it? I find sculpting helps me unwind, relax.
SEVEN: The concept of relaxation is difficult for me to understand. As a Borg, my time was spent working at a specific task. When it was completed, I was assigned another. It was efficient.
JANEWAY: So is this. It helps my own efficiency to forget about Voyager for a while. I'd be embarrassed to show Maestro Leonardo something like this but I get a great deal of pleasure in working the clay, in creating something.
SEVEN: But why here, in this simulation? Among these archaic objects and this disorganized environment.
JANEWAY: Frankly, it's refreshing to take myself out of the twenty fourth century every now and then. And a little disorganization can be very encouraging to the imagination. You might want to try it sometime.
SEVEN: Are you suggesting that I create one of these holodeck programs?
JANEWAY: You might find it interesting. It's a way of exploring aspects of yourself that probably didn't fit into your life as a Borg. Imagination, creativity, fantasy.
SEVEN: I am uncertain why those things are necessary.
JANEWAY: They aren't necessary, Seven. But they're an important part of one's life, because imagination frees the mind. It inspires ideas and solutions, and it can provide a great deal of pleasure. Human progress, the human mind itself, couldn't exist without them. When I was a child, I studied these drawings. I even built some of these models. Da Vinci was always a great inspiration to me.
SEVEN: He was a very busy man.
JANEWAY: Oh, yes. A prolific artist, and a scientist as well. Far, far ahead of his time. That design, for example. He conceived of an airplane centuries before one was actually built. Seven?

[Borg vessel]
BORG (voiceover): You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile. Your distinctiveness will be added to our own.
FATHER (voiceover): Annika!
BORG (voiceover): You will be assimilated. You will be assimilated.

[Holodeck - Da Vinci Workshop]
JANEWAY: Seven? What is it?
SEVEN: I don't know.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: It's happened three times now in different locations, at different times of the day. I experience a series of disjointed images in my mind.
EMH: Can you be more specific? Were these hallucinations?
SEVEN: I don't know. I've never hallucinated. It's as if I were aboard a Borg vessel, but I was frightened. I felt fear. Each experience is similar. I'm being pursued by the Borg. They want to assimilate me. I'm running from them, and then, and then, each time I see a bird.
JANEWAY: A bird?
SEVEN: Yes. A large black bird, flying toward me, shrieking, attacking me.
EMH: Hmm. Your hippocampus is in a state of agitation.
SEVEN: What does that mean?
EMH: As your human physiology continues to reassert itself, psychological symptoms are bound to manifest in a variety of ways. Through dreams, hallucinations, hypnogogic regression.
SEVEN: Hypnogogic regression?
EMH: Flashbacks. You could be experiencing some sort of post-traumatic stress disorder.
JANEWAY: Makes sense. You were assimilated by the Borg. You've gone through an intense, prolonged trauma.
SEVEN: I was not traumatized. I was raised by the Borg. I don't see them as threatening. Why would I experience fear?
EMH: I don't know.
SEVEN: Will I keep having these flashbacks?
EMH: I'll need to study your neural scans further. In the meantime, your digestive system is fully functional. Now is as good a time as any for you to begin taking solid and liquid nutrients.
SEVEN: Oral consumption is inefficient.
EMH: And unnecessary, if you're lucky enough to be a hologram. But your human physiology requires it. I'll draw up a list of nutritional requirements. Take it to Mister Neelix in the mess hall. I hesitate to inflict his cooking on you but it'll have to do.
SEVEN: I do not enjoy this sensation. Something is happening to me and I don't know what it is. It's as though I'm being driven somehow.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Our guests have arrived. They're being escorted to the briefing room.
JANEWAY: On my way. Representatives of the B'omar. I've been trying to negotiate passage through their space but so far they've been difficult to deal with. I hope they've had a change of heart.
SEVEN: I'll stay here and wait for the Doctor's instructions.
JANEWAY: We'll help you through this, Seven. You'll be all right.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Have you had a chance to consider our request?
GAUMAN: Congratulations, Captain. Against our better judgment the B'omar Sovereignty has agreed to grant your vessel passage through our territory.
JANEWAY: On behalf of my crew, thank you. That will cut three months off our journey.
GAUMAN: However, there are a few stipulations. Guidelines that you must adhere to.
JANEWAY: You'll have our complete cooperation.
GAUMAN: We expect nothing less. While in our space, your vessel will not exceed warp three, and your weapons systems will remain offline. You will avoid unnecessary scans and you will not conduct surveys of any kind. You will make no attempt to explore our space and you will avoid all communications with non-military craft.
DUMAH: We've also plotted the course your vessel is to follow.
PARIS: It'll take us weeks to follow that course.
CHAKOTAY: If not months.
DUMAH: We've designed this course so your ship would avoid our populated systems and industrial areas. Deviation is not recommended.
GAUMAN: There are a total of seventeen checkpoints where you will submit your vessel for inspection.
JANEWAY: Chancellor Gauman, if I may interrupt? I appreciate your efforts in plotting this flight plan, but if we could, I'd like to negotiate a course that's a little more direct.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Well. What an unexpected pleasure. Welcome to the mess hall. Would you like me to show you around?
SEVEN: My physiology has reasserted the need to process solid nutrients. The Doctor has prepared a list of dietary requirements. You will provide them for me.
NEELIX: Let's see what we have here. Ah, two hundred fifty grams glycoproteins consisting of fifty hree percent polypeptides and twenty six percent fibrous glycogen. Urgh, doesn't sound very appetizing. However, a plate of my chadre'kab should satisfy most of these essentials while providing a pleasurable culinary experience at the same time.
SEVEN: Pleasure is irrelevant.
NEELIX: Well, I beg to differ. A good meal involves much more than simply providing the proper nutrients.
SEVEN: Why is that?
NEELIX: Well, er, there's a certain satisfaction that comes from eating food that's been carefully prepared. I'm sure once you try it, you'll understand. Now, how would you like your chadre'kab? Boiled? Baked? Stir fried?
SEVEN: Preparation is irrelevant.
NEELIX: Is irrelevant. Maybe, maybe not. This is the first time ingesting food for you for quite a while. Er, we'll go a little easy on your stomach. Steamed.
NEELIX: Yes, this, er this recipe has been in my family for generations. It's considered a delicacy among my people.
SEVEN: You are Talaxian.
NEELIX: Guilty as charged.
SEVEN: Species two one eight.
NEELIX: What? Oh, I suppose so.
SEVEN: Your biological and technological distinctiveness was added to our own.
NEELIX: I hadn't realized that.
SEVEN: A small freighter containing a crew of thirty nine taken in the Dalmine Sector. They were easily assimilated. Their dense musculature made them excellent drones.
NEELIX: Well, lucky for you, I guess.
NEELIX: Your nutrients. Follow me.
NEELIX: Please.
SEVEN: Please what?
NEELIX: It's customary to sit while eating.
NEELIX: Is something wrong?
SEVEN: I am unaccustomed to this. Borg do not sit.
NEELIX: Well, this is a day of firsts, then, isn't it?
NEELIX: Now. Take a bite. Try that one. Just kind of er, scoop some up. That's the way. Right into your mouth. Just like a little scout ship flying into a shuttlebay. Take it out, but keep your mouth closed. That's it. Now chew. Chew, chew, chew, chew. And swallow. Swallow.
SEVEN: A curious sensation.
NEELIX: You'll get used to it. Have some more. May I bring you something else? A soothing cup of tea perhaps?
SEVEN: You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
CREWWOMAN: Did you see that?

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: What about this course? It's a marginal adjustment. The nearest populated system is more than three light years away.
GAUMAN: Definitely not. You'd pass directly through the Agrat-mot Nebula. A key resource in our trade negotiations with the Nassordin.
PARIS: I could chart the nebula, try to avoid any
DUMAH: No, no. Are your translators malfunctioning?
TUVOK (voiceover): Captain Janeway to the bridge.
JANEWAY: If you'll excuse me.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: I've received an alert from Security. Seven of Nine attacked Neelix in the mess hall and three other crewmen on deck two.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Seven of Nine. Seven, if you can hear me, respond.
CHAKOTAY: What's her location?
TUVOK: Deck six, section twenty eight alpha.
CHAKOTAY: Take a security team.
GAUMAN: Captain, what is happening here?
JANEWAY: I wish I knew, Chancellor. Chakotay, seal off deck six.

[Corridor]
BORG (voiceover): Seven of Nine.

[Bridge]
CREWMAN (voiceover): Security to the Bridge. We've just seen Seven of Nine. Her Borg shields are fully operational and they've adapted to our phasers.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Bridge to all security personnel. Configure your weapons to a rotating modulation, but keep them on stun.
GAUMAN: Borg. You have Borg on your ship?
JANEWAY: It's not what you think. She is a member of my crew. We liberated her from the Collective. She's no longer a Borg.
GAUMAN: Then why is she equipped with Borg shields?
JANEWAY: I don't know.
CHAKOTAY: She's able to cross through the security fields. She's entering the armory on deck six.

[Turbolift]
SEVEN: Deck ten.

[Bridge]
KIM: She's in a turbolift.
JANEWAY: Cut power to the turboshafts.
KIM: She's blocking my commands with a Borg encryption code.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok. Seven's apparently headed for deck ten. Can you get there before she does?
TUVOK (voiceover): I'm moving into position now, Captain.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: We'll take position here.
TUVOK: Lower your weapon and stand down. Fire.

[Bridge]
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to bridge. We were unsuccessful.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: I have wounded. She's moving toward junction thirty two alpha.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: The shuttlebay.
CHAKOTAY: I'm erecting a forcefield. Harry, reroute all available power to deck ten.
KIM: Done.
KIM: She's accessing transporter control.
CHAKOTAY: She used a site to site transport. She's in a shuttlecraft. Powering engines.
JANEWAY: Seal the launch doors.
JANEWAY: Tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: No effect. She's remodulated the shuttle's shield harmonics.
KIM: Captain, Seven's headed directly into B'omar space. She's gone to warp.
PARIS: She's masked the shuttle's ion trail. I've lost her signal. She's gone.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: We'll do everything in our power to find her, but we will need permission to enter B'omar space to track her shuttle effectively.
GAUMAN: Let's tally the events, shall we? First, you arrive uninvited and unwelcome, requesting a shortcut through our space. Then you proceed to unleash some sort of rogue Borg and now you want us to help you get it back.
JANEWAY: I apologize for what's happened here, but we certainly didn't unleash anyone. We can resolve this situation quickly, gentlemen, if we work together.
GAUMAN: Captain Janeway, after what I've seen here, I question your competence.
JANEWAY: May I remind you that you're still on my ship.
DUMAH: And you are one vessel among many of ours.
GAUMAN: Your Borg will be dealt with quickly and efficiently. It's being tracked as we speak.
CHAKOTAY: Tracked? How?
DUMAH: Every vessel, every object, every particle of dust that crosses our borders is immediately identified and traced by our perimeter grid.
GAUMAN: The Borg will be found and destroyed.
JANEWAY: Chancellor.
GAUMAN: There will be no sharing of information. From this point on, your vessel will maintain a distance of at least five light years from our borders. Any deviation will be considered an act of aggression.
JANEWAY: Commander, escort our guests to the transporter room.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. I've assembled a team to analyze every square meter of the cargo bay. This has essentially been her quarters for the last two months, and I'm determined to find something here that might shed light on Seven of Nine's actions.

[Cargo Bay two]
TORRES: You're taking this kind of hard, aren't you?
KIM: What's that supposed to mean? We had a working relationship.
TORRES: Well, what's that supposed to mean.
KIM: It's not what you're thinking.
TORRES: What am I thinking, Harry?
KIM: Never mind.
TORRES: Take a look at this.
JANEWAY: Anything?
TORRES: It's a Borg datalink. It contains a succession of log entries written in Borg alphanumeric code.
KIM: I'm getting pretty good with the Borg language. I think I can translate them.
JANEWAY: Get on it.
CHAKOTAY: It seems we've made quite an impression on the B'omar. In the last hour, they've doubled the number of ships patrolling their borders and they've increased the sensitivity of the perimeter grid by thirty six percent.
JANEWAY: So much for diplomacy.
CHAKOTAY: The Doctor analyzed the data from Seven of Nine's last transport. He's found something he wants us to see. Maybe this was inevitable. Even if Seven did want to stay on Voyager her Borg nature may have won out. We can remove implant after implant, but, maybe at her core, she'll always be part of the Collective.
JANEWAY: No. I won't accept that.

[Turbolift]
JANEWAY: Deck five. She was responding to us. Interacting with people outside the Collective for the first time. She was adapting to this environment and to this crew. But where is she going? We've scanned space for a distance of forty light years. We've found no evidence of Borg ships, so she can't be trying to rejoin the Collective.
CHAKOTAY: She may plan to take the shuttle back to Borg space.
JANEWAY: Ten thousand light years from here? I don't think so, no. Something else going on. We're missing a piece of the puzzle.
CHAKOTAY: In the meantime, the B'omar intend to find her. And if they do, she'll probably resist them.
JANEWAY: One more reason for us to find her first.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: What have you found, Doctor?
EMH: Something most peculiar. This graphic represents the matter conversion data from Seven of Nine's last transport. If you'll notice, there's a high concentration of Borg organelles in the bone marrow and lymphatic tissue. The dormant nanoprobes in Seven of Nine's cells have reasserted themselves, taken over blood cell production and they're growing new Borg implants. Thirteen percent of the Borg technology I removed three weeks ago has regenerated in a matter of hours.
CHAKOTAY: You said the nanoprobes in her bloodstream were dormant. What reactivated them?
EMH: I don't know, but I've developed a way to stop the process. This hypospray contains a genetic resequencing vector. It should neutralize the nanoprobes.
JANEWAY: That means someone needs to get close enough to do it.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: We've analyzed the B'omar perimeter grid. It's sophisticated, but not without its vulnerabilities. It might be possible to penetrate the grid by re-calibrating our shields to match its frequency.
PARIS: The trick is going to be our energy signature. Voyager's too big to hide, but a shuttlecraft with the proper shield modulation and its engines powered down could drift right through without so much as a peep.
JANEWAY: Nice work, gentlemen. Proceed. The Doctor's genetic resequencer. It should keep her sedated until you get back to the ship. Once you've penetrated the perimeter, there will be no further communication with Voyager. You'll be on your own.
TUVOK: Captain, it is possible that Seven will adapt to the resequencer.
JANEWAY: I know. If it fails and you're unable to reason with her, you have my authorisation to stop her with any force necessary.
TUVOK: Understood.

[The Raven]
BORG (voiceover): Seven of Nine, grid nine two of subjunction twelve. You will be assimilated.

[Seven's shuttlecraft]
DUMAH (voiceover): Borg drone, you have committed an infraction against the B'omar Sovereignty.

[B'omar vessel]
DUMAH: Cut power to your engines and lower your shields. Prepare to be boarded. You will proceed no further. We will not

[Paris's shuttlecraft]
TUVOK: I'm detecting weapons signatures. Federation and B'omar. Five B'omar vessels are adrift, heavily damaged. Lifesigns are stable.
PARIS: I've located Seven's shuttle. It's two point five million kilometers from here.
TUVOK: Adjust course to intercept.
PARIS: The implants in Seven's body are disrupting the transporter signal. I can't get a lock.
TUVOK: See if you can remodulate our transporters to match her shields
PARIS: You want to beam in there?
TUVOK: Yes.
PARIS: I'm not sure that's a good idea, Tuvok. Closed quartesr, Borg against Vulcan? No offense, but you won't stand a chance if she decides to put up a fight.
TUVOK: It's my hope that the element of surprise will work in my favor. Do you have a better idea?
PARIS: Come to think of it, no. She's charging weapons.
TUVOK: Set my coordinates for the aft compartment.
PARIS: Ready.
TUVOK: Energize.
PARIS: Come on, Tuvok, give me a sign.
COMPUTER: Warning. Propulsion systems are offline.
PARIS: Damn!

[Seven's shuttlecraft]
SEVEN: It's a level five forcefield, Lieutenant. I suggest you be more careful.
TUVOK: Why have you left Voyager?
SEVEN: I am Borg.
TUVOK: You were Borg, but you're human, now. You're part of our crew.
SEVEN: For a brief time I was human. But I have come to realize that I am Borg. I will always be Borg.
TUVOK: What prompted this realization?
SEVEN: Every Borg ship is coded to emit a distinct resonance frequency to guide drones who become separated from the Collective.
TUVOK: A homing beacon.
SEVEN: Yes. I am following a signal. A Borg vessel is waiting for me.
TUVOK: We've scanned this entire region for Borg. There are none.
SEVEN: You're wrong. They are here. Vulcan. Species three two five nine. Your enlarged neocortex produces superior analytical abilities. Your distinctiveness will be added to our
TUVOK: Seven?
SEVEN: No. I will not assimilate you. Once I return to the Collective, you will go back to Voyager and tell Captain Janeway what's happened to me. Thank her for her patience, for her kindness.
TUVOK: Curious. Your behavior demonstrates affection and sentiment. Traits of humanity. Hardly Borg. You have been experiencing hallucinations, flashbacks.
SEVEN: Yes.
TUVOK: Does that usually occur when a resonance signal is activated?
SEVEN: No.
BORG (voiceover): Seven of Nine, grid nine two of subjunction twelve.
SEVEN: But I can hear them calling me. I'm frightened
TUVOK: That's understandable. Lower the forcefield. We can return to Voyager and find out what's happening to you. I am your shipmate. We can return to Voyager together.
SEVEN: I must rejoin the Collective. Captain's log, supplemental. I've been trying to retrace Seven of Nine's footsteps, her actions during the last few days, but I'm still no closer to understanding what's happened.

[Cargo Bay two]
KIM: Captain? Am I disturbing you?
JANEWAY: Not at all, Harry.
KIM: I've managed to decipher Seven's log entries.
JANEWAY: And?
KIM: There's nothing that indicates she was planning to leave the ship. The entries are pretty unremarkable. She describes her daily routines, number of hours spent regenerating, that sort of thing. There were some personal log entries, mostly observations about the crew's behavior. I'm mentioned in quite a few of them. Apparently, she finds my behavior easy to predict, whatever that means.
JANEWAY: Don't take it personally coming from Seven, that's probably a compliment.
KIM: The most recent entries are kind of strange. Descriptions of bizarre images, almost like a record of her dreams.
JANEWAY: The hallucinations.
KIM: Maybe so. Sometimes she's in a Borg vessel, running or hiding behind a bulkhead, falling down a shaft. Borg everywhere, chasing her. Nightmarish stuff.
JANEWAY: What about this bird?
KIM: She mentions it several times. It flies at her, shrieking. I don't know what it means.
JANEWAY: The feathers are black, wingspan approximately one half meter. The eyes are yellow and it has a powerful triangular beak. When it looks at me, I am paralyzed. I cannot move. It seems to know me, but I don't understand how that's possible. It's merely a bird, an inferior form of life, but the sight of it fills me with fear. It sounds like she's describing a member of the corvidae family like a crow, or a raven. She's describing a raven.
KIM: Why is that important?
JANEWAY: Because now I know what to look for.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Chakotay, calibrate our long range sensors to scan for any Federation signature other than our two shuttlecraft.
CHAKOTAY: Captain ?
JANEWAY: Do it. Bring the ship about, Ensign, and lay in a course for B'omar space.
ENSIGN: Aye, Captain.

[Seven's shuttlecraft]
SEVEN: The resonance signal is coming from the lunar surface. The Borg are waiting for me there. I don't know why I'm frightened. They are my people.
TUVOK: If you're afraid, then leave this place.
SEVEN: Once I've been reintegrated into the Collective, my fears will disappear.
TUVOK: Deactivate the forcefield. I will accompany you to the surface. You don't need to go alone.
SEVEN: You would be assimilated.
TUVOK: I don't believe so. I think this situation is not what it appears.
SEVEN: What do you mean? What else could it be?
TUVOK: I am uncertain, but I am willing to go to the surface with you to find out.

[Paris' shuttlecraft]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Voyager to Paris.
PARIS: Paris here, Captain. Glad to hear your voice. Tuvok is with Seven of Nine. I haven't been able to establish communication with him since he transported to her shuttle. I've tracked them to an M class moon orbiting the fifth planet of a yellow dwarf star.

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): I'm picking up an unusual resonance signal from the surface. It's erratic. I haven't been able to identify it.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. We've detected several B'omar ships closing in on your position. What's your condition?
PARIS (voiceover): Warp engines are offline, shields are

[Paris's shuttlecraft]
PARIS: At fifty percent.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Try to locate them, Tom. We're on our way.

[Moon]
TUVOK: The signal's getting stronger
SEVEN: They're here, I'm sure of it.
TUVOK: This way.
TUVOK: If you like, we can return to the shuttle.
SEVEN: No. I have to find out.
SEVEN: What is it?
TUVOK: It's a Federation vessel partially assimilated by the Borg. There are no lifesigns. Tritanium decay suggests it has been here for nearly twenty years.

[The Raven]
SEVEN: This vessel is familiar.
SEVEN: This is the signal that's drawn me here.

[The Raven - flashback]
FATHER (voiceover): Annika!
MOTHER (voiceover): Run, Annika! Run! Hide!

[The Raven]
SEVEN: Papa? Help me.

[The Raven - flashback]
ANNIKA: No! No!

[The Raven]
TUVOK: Seven, I'm here. Listen to me. Come.
SEVEN: It happened here. This is where it began. This is where I was assimilated.
SEVEN: This was our ship. We lived here. We lived here for a long time. My father did experiments. They were very important, and we had to travel a long way. I had my birthday here. My cake had six candles on it, and one more to grow on. And then the men came. Papa tried to fight them but they were too strong. I tried to hide. Maybe they wouldn't find me because I was little, but they did. And Papa said we were going to crash and the big man picked me up, and then suddenly we weren't on the ship anymore. We were somewhere else. And then I became Borg.
TUVOK: Fascinating. This resonance signal must have been active since the ship was assimilated, and Voyager passed within range.
SEVEN: The ship is under attack.
TUVOK: The B'omar. The ship will collapse. We must get out of here.

[Bridge]
KIM: The B'omar still aren't responding to our hails.
CHAKOTAY: Standing by to fire.
JANEWAY: Target their weapons systems. Tom, what's your status?
PARIS (voiceover): I've located Tuvok and Seven, but there's a lot of interference. I'm attempting

[Paris' Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: To lock onto them now, Captain.

[The Raven]
SEVEN: This way.
TUVOK: Are you all right?
SEVEN: I am undamaged. This was the only way to the hatch.
TUVOK: Perhaps there is another way out. There's a hull rupture in the forward compartment. It may provide a means of escape. Start digging. Quickly.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We've disabled two of their ships. The third is still firing at the surface.
KIM: We're being hailed. Audio only.
GAUMAN (voiceover): You're committing an act of war, Captain.
JANEWAY: You've left me no choice, Chancellor.
GAUMAN (voiceover): Reinforcements are arriving. You will be destroyed.
JANEWAY: I don't have time for this. Target their weapons array.

[The Raven]
TUVOK: Seven, I need your help.

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): I've got them, Captain. We're on our way to Voyager.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Good work.
KIM: I'm detecting a fleet of B'omar vessels approaching. Sixty eight ships.
JANEWAY: Ensign, as soon as Mister Paris's shuttle has docked, take us out of B'omar space. Warp eight.
ENSIGN: Aye, sir.
JANEWAY: Looks like there won't be any shortcuts this time.

[Holodeck - Da Vinci's Workshop]
JANEWAY: There you are. I wanted to tell you that the Doctor said he could adjust one of your implants so that you won't receive any more homing signals.
SEVEN: Thank you. I hope you don't mind that I activated this program.
JANEWAY: Not at all.
SEVEN: I've been thinking about what you said, that this was a place to encourage your imagination.
JANEWAY: Is that appealing to you?
SEVEN: I'm not certain. I find myself constructing scenarios, considering alternative possibilities. What if my parents and I had not encountered the Borg? What would our lives have been? I would have been raised by them, learned from them. It would have influenced what I became, who and what I am.
JANEWAY: And you would have done the same for them. If you'd like to know more about your parents, there's information in the Federation database.
SEVEN: Information?
JANEWAY: It seems they were fairly well known for being unconventional and for some rather unique scientific theories. You might like to read what's there. It might encourage your imagination.
SEVEN: Perhaps I will, some day. Good night, Captain.

[Jefferies tube]
TORRES: Sorry. I didn't realize that you'd been assigned here today.
SEVEN: I wasn't. This space was unoccupied so I came here to work.
TORRES: On what?
SEVEN: I'm reconfiguring the power couplings in this section.
TORRES: Why?
SEVEN: The Astrometrics lab requires additional energy.
TORRES: I see. So you're rerouting power from other locations, like Engineering?
SEVEN: They are minor adjustments. Primary systems will not be affected.
TORRES: Unless, of course, someone is trying to do a warp core diagnostic, which my crew has been trying to do all morning. We have lost hours of work because of this.
SEVEN: There is no need for anger. I had no intention of causing a problem.
TORRES: What, sorry isn't in the Borg vocabulary? You need to check with me before you touch the power systems. Understood?
SEVEN: Understood.
SEVEN: I am unaccustomed to working in a hierarchy. In the Collective there was no need to ask permission.
TORRES: If you're going to be a member of this crew, get used to it. Procedures exist for a reason. We've got to work together. Follow the same set of rules
SEVEN: Lieutenant?
TORRES: I was given that lecture once, by Captain Janeway when I first joined this crew. If I could adjust to Starfleet life, so can you.
SEVEN: Of course. I am sorry for the inconvenience.

[Doctor's office]
PARIS: Doc, I've got to go run a few errands, I'll be back soon.
EMH: Not so fast, Mister Paris. Can't these errands wait until the end of your duty shift?
PARIS: Well, it's my conn report, actually. I just realized I forgot to turn it in, and Chakotay gives me a hard time when it's late.
EMH: You've been here all afternoon. Didn't this occur to you before?
PARIS: Well, we've been so busy that I guess it just slipped my mind.
EMH: I see. Well, since it's an emergency, don't let me stand in your way.
PARIS: Thanks.

[Corridor]
CREWWOMAN: Sir.

[Science lab]
PARIS: Computer, lock onto these coordinates. I need a site to site transport. No, wait. Access the central replicator files first. Ah, perfect.

[Jefferies tube]
TORRES: Are those supposed to make up for canceling on me last night?
PARIS: I got stuck with an extra shift on the bridge. What could I say? Sorry, Captain, I've got a date with B'Elanna?
TORRES: And what about right now? Aren't you supposed to be working in Sickbay?
PARIS: I said I had to go deliver a conn report.
TORRES: Not bad, but he'll be expecting you back.
PARIS: He can wait.
PARIS: What is it?
TORRES: I just had the feeling that somebody was watching us. I must be completely paranoid about getting caught in a compromising position.
PARIS: Kind of exciting, isn't it?

[Sickbay]
EMH: Your trapezius is hard as a rock. You haven't been following the relaxation regimen I prescribed for you.
JANEWAY: I've been too busy.
EMH: The usual story. Have you been getting enough sleep?
JANEWAY: More or less. Mostly less.
EMH: Mmm hmm. And have your headaches been getting any worse?
JANEWAY: No, but they're not getting any better either. They're like hot needles driving into my skull.
EMH: These symptoms are hardly surprising, Captain. You work absurdly long hours under constant stress, eating on the run, without sufficient exercise or rest. Your body is crying out for mercy.
JANEWAY: It certainly is right now, There must be some easier way to do this, Doctor. A hypospray, maybe?
EMH: Always looking for the simple fix. Sometimes there's no substitute for intensive osteopathic pressure therapy. You're fortunate to have a masseur who can work all day without tiring.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Bridge to the Captain.
EMH: Commander, unless this is an emergency, my patient is unavailable.
JANEWAY: I'm here, Chakotay. What is it?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We've reached the source of those energy readings and I thought you'd like to see what we've found.
JANEWAY: On my way.
EMH: Captain!
JANEWAY: I know what you're going to say, Doctor, but I can't neglect my responsibilities.
EMH: Actually I was going to suggest a change of outfit.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Binary pulsars. The gravitational forces between them are so intense that everything within fifty million kilometers is getting pulled in.
PARIS: Don't worry. We're well out of range.
CHAKOTAY: Gamma radiation levels are high, but as long as we're careful I think we can collect some invaluable data. Captain, am I boring you?
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm sorry. I guess I'm a little too tired to concentrate on stellar phenomenon right now. I'll leave this project in your capable hands.

[Engineering]
PARIS: You wanted to see me, Lieutenant?
TORRES: Yes. I'm trying to increase the efficiency of the impulse drive, but I wanted to make sure that I wasn't compromising helm control.
PARIS: A sensible precaution. I'd be glad to help.
TORRES: Good. All of the specs are at my upper workstation.
PARIS: Then let's get started.

[Engineering - upper level]
TORRES: Did you hear something?
PARIS: You always think you hear something.
PARIS: Commander.
TUVOK: Lieutenant. Here is the power usage data you requested.
TORRES: Right. Of course. I didn't expect it quite so promptly. Which I guess I should have, er, coming from you. I, I mean I'm grateful that you got the data to me so quickly. Thanks.

[Corridor]
PARIS: Tuvok. Tuvok, I guess that was kind of embarrassing.
TUVOK: I don't experience embarrassment.
PARIS: Right. Well, then I guess there's no harm done. It's not like there was a security violation or anything.
TUVOK: None that I am aware of.
PARIS: So, I guess there's nothing that would have to go on any kind of report.
TUVOK: You want me to conceal what I've observed of your relationship with Lieutenant Torres.
PARIS: Well, I'd certainly never ask you to be dishonest.
TUVOK: Certainly not.

[Outside Turbolift]
TORRES: Do you think he'll say anything to the captain?
PARIS: I don't know.
TORRES: Well how did he sound? Annoyed? Amused?
PARIS: He sounded Vulcan. What more can I tell you.

[Turbolift]
PARIS: Deck one.
TORRES: We've got to be more careful with appearances. We shouldn't go into the briefing at the same time.
PARIS: Good idea. Okay, you go in first, I'll come in a minute later.
TORRES: No, that'll look even more suspicious.
PARIS: Listen to us. We're acting like criminals when we haven't done anything wrong.
TORRES: Well, I'm not saying that we have. I just thought that we wanted to keep this relationship to ourselves. We do, right?
PARIS: Do you?
TORRES: If you do.
PARIS: Computer, halt turbolift. Let's figure out how we can handle this.
TORRES: Well, I don't think that it's anybody else's business how we feel about each other.
PARIS: Neither do I.
TORRES: Right, then we're agreed. Just a little more careful in public and we don't say anything to anybody.
PARIS: At least for now.
TORRES: Now? Sounds like you see a future in this.
PARIS: I would never be so presumptuous.
TORRES: Smooth recovery, Lieutenant.
PARIS: I thought so. Computer, resume.
TORRES: So I'll go first and you follow.
PARIS: Right.

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: Here's the plan. We'll circle the pulsars at a distance of eighty million kilometers.
KIM: That might not be far enough. We've been detecting some random proton bursts. A strong one could knock out our shields.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, go to ninety. Keep a safe distance.
PARIS: Yes, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, keep our shields at maximum strength. Divert auxiliary power if you need it. I want to take every precaution on this survey. Report any problems immediately, no matter how small.
JANEWAY: Dismissed. Lieutenants Paris and Torres, I'd like to speak with you for a moment.
PARIS: Thanks.
JANEWAY: I don't usually pry into the personal lives of my crew, but in this case I have to question your recent conduct.
PARIS: I guess Tuvok
JANEWAY: Tuvok? I haven't heard a word from Tuvok. You two have been making enough of a public display that half the ship is gossiping about it.
TORRES: Believe me, that wasn't our intention.
JANEWAY: You are senior officers and I expect you to maintain the standard for the rest of the crew, but this adolescent behavior makes me question my faith in you both. If you choose to pursue a relationship that's your business. But you consider yourselves under orders to use better judgment about it. Is that understood?
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
TORRES: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.

[Chakotay's quarters]
CHAKOTAY: Computer, hot coffee, black.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Commander Chakotay is suffering bone decalcification, tissue necrosis, decreased visual acuity. All classic signs of aging, but they've developed within hours.
CHAKOTAY: Any theories?
EMH: There's a rare genetic disorder called progeria which causes children to age prematurely. But there's never been an adult case and it was supposedly eradicated two centuries ago. Even so, I took a close look at your DNA. These segments regulate your body's metabolism. My scans indicate that they've been hyper-stimulated somehow.
JANEWAY: What's the prognosis?
EMH: I can't speculate on that until I've identified the cause. There's no sign of an infectious agent.
JANEWAY: We spent several hours near a binary pulsar that was emitting intense gamma radiation.
CHAKOTAY: Our shields were operating. I don't see how I could have been exposed to it.
JANEWAY: At this point we can't rule out anything. I'm going to take a closer look at the data we collected.
CHAKOTAY: You should also run scans of my quarters, as well as my office and the bridge. Everywhere I've been today.
EMH: I'm not prepared to send you back on duty yet, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I may look pretty strange, but my mind is perfectly clear. I'd rather stay busy than just sit here.
EMH: I have no idea how your symptoms will progress. You should remain in Sickbay for observation.
JANEWAY: He's right, Chakotay. I'll keep you informed.
EMH: Whatever's affecting the Commander's DNA is working at a sub-molecular level. I'd like to set up an electron resonance scanner in the science lab to get a closer look.
JANEWAY: Use whatever you need, and ask B'Elanna to give you a hand.
EMH: Still having headaches, Captain?
JANEWAY: I don't need any more lectures about working too hard, Doctor. Chakotay's the one who needs your attention right now.
EMH: I'll get to work on the scanner right away.

[Mess hall]
KIM: Under orders to use better judgment? oh, that's pretty harsh.
PARIS: I hope I can manage it.
KIM: Well, she does have a point. You could have been more discreet.
PARIS: Oh, I forgot I was talking to the most upstanding Ensign in Starfleet.
NEELIX: Good morning.
PARIS: Neelix.
NEELIX: I was just about to whip up a fresh batch of scrambled eggs. Would you like some?
KIM: Actually I was hoping you might have some leftover Pleeka rind casserole from last night.
PARIS: For breakfast?
KIM: I like it.
NEELIX: I'm sure I can find some for you.
KIM: So, I guess your relationship isn't exactly a secret anymore.
PARIS: Do you think anybody on this ship can keep a secret?

[Galley]
PARIS: Neelix!
NEELIX: What's, what's happening?
PARIS: Paris to the Doctor. I'm bringing Neelix to Sickbay. It's an emergency.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Now pay attention, Mister Paris. These scans should indicate whether. Hmm.
NEELIX: What is it?
EMH: It seems that your DNA has been hyper-stimulated, just like Commander Chakotay's.
PARIS: But Neelix doesn't seem to be aging.
EMH: No, the effects are quite different.
NEELIX: If anything, I look like a Mylean. They occupy a region of space near Talax.
EMH: Interesting. Do Talaxians and Myleans share a common ancestry?
NEELIX: Not that I know of.
EMH: Do the two races ever intermarry?
NEELIX: Yes. As a matter of fact, my great grandfather was Mylean.
EMH: Then one eighth of your genetic material was inherited from him. Those must be the genes which have become stimulated.
NEELIX: Too bad my great grandfather wasn't a little better looking.
EMH: Hmm. As far as I can tell, his condition seems stable. I'm going to leave you in charge of Sickbay so I can continue the DNA analysis.
PARIS: If anyone else comes in I'll run a cellular scan. Is there anything else I can do?
EMH: Do your best to keep them comfortable. Until we have more information, that's the best either of us can do.
NEELIX: I thought you might be thirsty.
CHAKOTAY: Thanks. Do you smell something strange?
NEELIX: I, I'm afraid that's me. I seem to be developing Mylean sweat glands. Sorry.
CHAKOTAY: It's not so bad.
NEELIX: Well, whatever happens, I try to keep in mind things could be worse.
NEELIX: I still have my home here on Voyager, my friends.
CHAKOTAY: Your hair.
NEELIX: True. But I'd gladly lose it if I could have my taste buds back.
CHAKOTAY: At least you're not losing your eyesight. See that display over there? It's nothing but a blur.
NEELIX: You think that's bad? The Doctor tells me my pupils have dilated sixty percent. I can't even look at that display, it's so bright.
CHAKOTAY: Yeah? Well I've got chronic arthritis in my fingers. I could barely keep this glass steady.
NEELIX: Well, that's nothing. My spinal column is fusing together. In a matter of days I won't be able to walk.
CHAKOTAY: Got you beat. I can barely walk now.
NEELIX: Lieutenant, can we help?
PARIS: I don't think so. I'm releasing you both back to your quarters. I've just gotten reports of more patients on the way. It's going to get crowded in here.

[Science Lab]
EMH: How's the scanner?
TORRES: Almost ready.
EMH: Good. This disorder seems to be spreading rapidly among the crew.
TORRES: Does that mean we'll all be affected?
EMH: Right now it only means that we need to find some answers as quickly as possible.
TORRES: All right, give the scanner a try.
EMH: I'll start with Commander Chakotay.
TORRES: How's the resolution?
EMH: Very nice. Now, let's focus in on the hyper-stimulated segments of this DNA. Can you give me more magnification?
TORRES: Coming up.
EMH: That's odd.
TORRES: What is?
EMH: There seems to be some kind of contaminant on the base pair sequence. It didn't show up on the first scan. I need a closer look.
TORRES: I'm going to maximum magnification. What do you see?
EMH: I'm not exactly sure.
TORRES: Well, what does it look like?
EMH: See for yourself.
TORRES: I'm no microbiologist, but that doesn't look like it belongs there.
EMH: Believe me, it doesn't. I've never seen it. This level of sub-molecular technology is well beyond anything Starfleet has developed.
TORRES: What are those markings? Some kind of alien writing?
EMH: I wish I knew. They might help us determine where it came from.
TORRES: Who could have put this into Chakotay's cells without his knowledge? Let me try a compositional analysis.
EMH: It's in Mister Neelix's DNA as well.
TORRES: Is this what's causing the mutations?
EMH: A good scientist never jumps to conclusions, Lieutenant, but I'd say it's a distinct possibility.
TORRES: I'm having trouble getting a clear reading from the sample. It looks almost like the er, whatever it is could be slightly out of phase.
EMH: That must be why my initial scans didn't reveal it.
TORRES: I'm compensating for the phase variance. You're not going to believe this, but I'm picking up an energy signature. This thing is transmitting some kind of a signal.
EMH: To where?
TORRES: I don't know. It's too weak to travel very far. Access the internal sensors and set them to a phase variance of point one five.
EMH: Right.
EMH: Lieutenant.
TORRES: Your program is being deleted.
EMH: How?
TORRES: I don't know. I'm transferring you back to Sickbay.
EMH: B'Elanna! Science lab to bridge. This is the Doctor.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: In the last hour three more patients have come in with genetic mutations. The effects are starting to become life threatening.
JANEWAY: What happened to B'Elanna?
PARIS: The alveoli in her lungs suddenly stopped processing oxygen. I've got her on respiratory support. She almost died.
JANEWAY: What about the Doctor?
KIM: The computer logs in the science lab show that he was trying to transfer himself to Sickbay. Something must have gone wrong while he was in transit.
PARIS: Could the Doctor have returned to the mobile emitter?
EMH (voiceover): Seven of Nine, this is the Doctor. Can you hear me? It's me, the Doctor. I've tapped into your audio implants so only you can hear me. It's imperative that you tell no one. Make any excuse to get out of there and report to holodeck two. I'm hiding in the da Vinci simulation. I'll explain everything when you get here.
KIM: We checked, but he never made it back there either. We do have a backup of his program available.
JANEWAY: We'll only activate that as a last resort. I want to...
KIM: Seven was checking it.
JANEWAY: Seven? Seven?
KIM: About the Doctor's research.
SEVEN: Yes. I examined their work area. There was no record of any findings. The electron resonance scanner appeared to be malfunctioning. I could return to the science lab and attempt to repair it.
JANEWAY: Keep me informed.

[Holodeck two - da Vinci's workshop]
EMH: Hold your head this way, Carlotta. I can only conclude that someone has implanted these microscopic tags in the DNA of the crew to cause genetic mutations.
SEVEN: For what purpose?
EMH: I don't know. And I get the feeling they don't want us to find out.
SEVEN: Explain.
EMH: When Lieutenant Torres and I started making progress in our investigation we were both incapacitated. Call me paranoid, but I don't think that is a coincidence.
SEVEN: If you are correct, perhaps our actions are being monitored.
EMH: That's why I couldn't risk contacting anyone over the comm. system.
SEVEN: Our first course of action should be to collect more information.
EMH: My thinking exactly. B'Elanna wanted to adjust the ship's internal sensors to a phase variance of point one five. I'd like to do the same to your Borg sensory nodes.
SEVEN: Proceed.
EMH: Computer, give me a type four micro-inducer.
EMH: Hmm. Now, take a look around and tell me what you see. Do you see anything unusual? Energy signatures? Or perhaps something that might be transmitting a signal?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: That's one room down, two hundred and fifty six to go. I suggest a deck by deck survey. If you need to contact me, use comm. frequency epsilon two. I've isolated it from the rest of the system.
SEVEN: Understood.
EMH: And be careful. Someone out there could be watching.

[Turbolift]
SEVEN: Deck five.

[Galley]
SEVEN: Computer, frequency epsilon two. Doctor, the aliens are here on the ship. I can see them everywhere.
EMH (voiceover): This is worse than I imagined. You've got to let the captain know.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Yes. Yes!
TUVOK: Good morning, Captain.
JANEWAY: That's a matter of opinion. What is it?
TUVOK: Internal scans haven't revealed anything about the genetic mutations.
JANEWAY: The Doctor?
TUVOK: Still offline. We are investigating the possibility
JANEWAY: Inform me of any progress.
TUVOK: Understood.
JANEWAY: There's one more thing. The incident with Tom and B'Elanna's started me thinking about ship's protocol, or lack thereof.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: It seems to me that people have been getting a little too comfortable around here lately. They're late for their duty shifts, taking mess hall privileges during non-designated hours. And a lot of people are spending more time on the holodeck than they are at their posts. You are Security chief. Don't thirteen department heads report to you every day?
TUVOK: Yes.
JANEWAY: Well, straighten them out.
TUVOK: Shall I flog them as well?
JANEWAY: Maybe the Doctor was right. I think I do need a vacation.
TUVOK: You do seem unsettled.
JANEWAY: Crazed is more like it. I haven't felt this anxious since my first day of command. Remind me to lower the volume on that door. Come in.
SEVEN: Captain, I wish to speak with you about
JANEWAY: What's wrong?
SEVEN: My attempts to repair the resonance scanner have failed. I require assistance.
JANEWAY: Ask Ensign Kim to lend you a hand.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Is that all? When this mutation crisis is over, I think I'll spend a few days in renaissance Tuscany. There's a little inn outside Siena I've been wanting to try.
TUVOK: I will join you for a glass of wine.

[Holodeck two - da Vinci program]
EMH: How many?
SEVEN: I've observed fifty six of the aliens. There could be more.
EMH: Have you seen any pattern to their behavior? Any hint as to what they're trying to accomplish?
SEVEN: They seem to be conducting experiments on the crew and monitoring the results.
EMH: As if Voyager were one big petri dish.
SEVEN: I may be among them. In the turbolift one of them probed me with a medical instrument.
EMH: We cannot allow them to continue.
SEVEN: I've been analyzing their energy signatures. I believe there's a way to make them visible to everyone.
EMH: How?
SEVEN: Using a precisely modulated phaser beam. If we expose them the crew may be able to fight back.
EMH: But what if the aliens retaliate by inflicting lethal mutations on everyone? It's too risky.
SEVEN: What do you suggest?
EMH: The key to the aliens' control is the genetic tags. I believe a neuraleptic shock would disable them. Unfortunately, it would be rather painful.
SEVEN: Will the crew recover?
EMH: Yes, they will. The hard part will be administering the shock to everyone simultaneously.
SEVEN: The power relays could be reconfigured to do it.
EMH: Good. I assume you know how to do that?
SEVEN: You assume correctly. But I will have to bypass several safeguards. It will take time.
EMH: Then you'd better get started.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Tuvok to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN (voiceover): Yes.
TUVOK: Why have you accessed the EPS relay system?

[Engineering]
SEVEN: There is a malfunction. I'm attempting to repair it.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Perhaps you should leave that to the engineering crew.
SEVEN (voiceover): Normally I would.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: However, they are all occupied with other tasks.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: You're compromising the power safety protocols. Stop what you're doing at once.
SEVEN (voiceover): I assure you there is no cause for concern.

[Engineering]
TUVOK: Move away from the console.
SEVEN: As I told you, I am conducting repairs.
TUVOK: You're attempting to deceive me. Why?
SEVEN: I can't explain what I'm doing but you must allow me to continue.
TUVOK: Your actions could result in an energy discharge which would be harmful to the crew.
SEVEN: I realize that.
SEVEN: Don't move. If your people attempt to incapacitate me I will kill you.
ALZEN: I believe you. What do you intend to do now?
SEVEN: You will come with me to speak to the captain. I am certain she will have questions for you.

[Brig]
JANEWAY: Keep on trying to disable the tags. Let me know when you're ready.
SEVEN: Understood.
TUVOK: I'ill attempt to modify the internal sensors to detect the aliens.
JANEWAY: Good. Keep me informed.
JANEWAY: Who are you? And what the hell are you doing to my crew?
ALZEN: My team has been observing you and conducting tests.
JANEWAY: Tests? I'd call them mutilations.
ALZEN: I can understand why you're angry. I don't like causing people to suffer, but sometimes it's a necessary part of my work.
JANEWAY: What kind of work is that?
ALZEN: Medical research. We're scientists, like you.
JANEWAY: From where I stand you're a hostile invasion force. I want to know how long you've been here and exactly what you've been doing to us.
ALZEN: I can't answer those questions. It's a breach of protocol for me to be speaking to you at all.
JANEWAY: Oh, how convenient. That way you never have to face your victims.
ALZEN: Captain, please. You're exaggerating the situation. Our techniques are as benign as we can make them.
JANEWAY: What I've been through for the last few days certainly hasn't felt benign.
ALZEN: Please understand that there's a purpose to our actions. The data we gather from you may help us cure physical and psychological disorders that afflict millions. Isn't that worth some discomfort?
JANEWAY: I'm sure you'd see things differently if your people were the ones being subjected to these experiments.
ALZEN: Just as your perspective would change if your people were the ones to live longer and healthier lives as a result. Don't forget, we've been observing you, Captain. I know the most important thing to you is the welfare of your crew. You'd even kill to protect them.
JANEWAY: If necessary.
ALZEN: Of course you would. You take care of your own, just as we do. We're really more similar than you care to admit.
JANEWAY: That's where you're wrong.
JANEWAY: What you're doing isn't self-defense. It's the exploitation of another species for your own benefit. My people decided a long time ago that that was unacceptable, even in the name of scientific progress.
ALZEN: You're a remarkably strong-willed individual. I've been very impressed by your self-control over the past several weeks. We've been increasing your dopamine levels, stimulating various aggressive impulses to test your behavioral restraints. There's been a great difference of opinion about how much more strain you can bear.
JANEWAY: Not much.
ALZEN: I'd hoped you'd be more cooperative once you realized the importance of our work.
JANEWAY: Sorry. These lab rats are fighting back.
ALZEN: I'm afraid that would be pointless. We're monitoring your attempts to break our control over you. You won't succeed.
JANEWAY: You may find that you've underestimated us.
ALZEN: Consider what's in the best interests of your crew. We will be continuing our research. If you make no further attempts to interfere, I assure you that the fatality rate will be minimal, though there may be some deformities. And I would be willing to share our final data with you.
JANEWAY: You can't possibly expect me to accept that.
ALZEN: If you don't, then the entire experiment and its subjects will be terminated.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Are you telling me there is no way to disable the tags?
SEVEN: My attempts to use the EPS relays to induce neuraleptic shock have failed. The aliens may be responsible.
TUVOK: I've encountered similar difficulties in my efforts to modify the internal sensors. They appear to have gained access to our key systems.
JANEWAY: They can't be everywhere all the time. We have got to find an advantage.
EMH: We'd better find one soon. Sickbay is being filled with new patients with increasingly severe symptoms.
SEVEN: We have the ability to make them visible. If we could modify enough sensors we could resist them.
TUVOK: They are capable of manipulating our DNA. A direct conflict would be inadvisable.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Bridge to Doctor. Medical emergency.

[Bridge]
EMH: She's in hypertensive shock. Twenty milligrams lectrazine. Her blood pressure is three sixty over one twenty five.
JANEWAY: How is that possible?
EMH: Severe adrenal stress. No effect.
EMH: Her arterial pathways are rupturing. She's in cardiac arrest. We're losing her.
EMH: Captain, I'm afraid that won't help. There's too much internal bleeding.
JANEWAY: Then try something else. We'll transport her to Sickbay.
EMH: Her entire circulatory system has collapsed. There's no way to repair that kind of damage. Brain death has occurred. I'm sorry, there was nothing more we could have done.
JANEWAY: This ends right now. You're relieved.
TUVOK: Captain, what are you doing?
JANEWAY: I'm running a little experiment of my own. Red alert!
SEVEN: Captain, one of the aliens has entered the bridge.
JANEWAY: Understood.
TUVOK: We're less than a million kilometers from the pulsars. We must change course immediately to avoid being caught in their gravity.
JANEWAY: No. Keep going.
TUVOK: This is a far more reckless course of action than I've come to expect from you, Captain.
JANEWAY: It certainly is.
TUVOK: Hull stress is at thirty teradynes and rising.
KIM: I'm transferring more power to the structural integrity field, but I don't know how long it can hold.
TAKAR: What do you hope to accomplish by this?
JANEWAY: Flying into a binary pulsar? It seems like I'm trying to crush this ship like a tin can.
TAKAR: It's more likely that you're trying to intimidate us.
JANEWAY: You're welcome to stick around and find out.
TUVOK: Hull stress is at forty five teradynes.
JANEWAY: Our course is locked in. Only my authorisation can release it.
TAKAR: You're not behaving very rationally.
JANEWAY: That's what you are trying to accomplish, wasn't it? Hmm? Pumping up my dopamine levels to push me to the edge? Keeping me awake for four days straight with the constant pain of your devices drilling into my skull? Well, this is the culmination of your work, and guess what? You're going to be right here to collect the final data.
KIM: Shields have failed. Structural integrity is down to twenty percent.
TAKAR: Enter the authorisation code and change course immediately.
JANEWAY: I don't think you realize that you are not in control here anymore.
TAKAR: I can kill you and your crew in an instant.
JANEWAY: Go ahead. Without us, you won't be able to prevent this ship from being torn apart by the pulsars. And even with my crew working together, I'd say the odds of us getting through this are, what, one in ten?
TUVOK: One in twenty at best, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm willing to take that chance. Are you?
TUVOK: Outer hull temperature has reached nine thousand degrees.
KIM: The hull is beginning to buckle.
SEVEN: Two alien vessels are attempting to disengage from Voyager.
JANEWAY: I can't break us free of the gravitational forces.
KIM: Then let's divert all power to the shields.
JANEWAY: No. If we go in, we go in full throttle.
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY: Assuming we survive we'll need all the momentum we can get to reach escape velocity on the other side. Everyone hang on. I hope you were exaggerating about those odds, Tuvok.
TUVOK: I was not. Hull stress has exceeded maximum tolerance.
SEVEN: There are breaches on decks four, seven, eight and twelve.
KIM: Emergency forcefields are holding.
JANEWAY: I've lost helm control.
TUVOK: Main power is offline.
JANEWAY: Well, let's hope we've got enough speed.
KIM: I don't believe it. We're alive.
JANEWAY: I never realized you thought of me as reckless, Tuvok.
TUVOK: A poor choice of words. It was clearly an understatement.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51244.3. With the aliens gone, the Doctor has been able to remove their devices from the crew and neutralize the genetic tags.

[Paris's quarters]
TORRES: It was nice you could get the night off.
PARIS: Nice had nothing to do with it. I switched shifts with Ensign Wildman which means tomorrow I'll pull a double duty on the bridge and with the Doc.
TORRES: Well, I appreciate the sacrifice. Tell me about the wine.
PARIS: Ah. Ktarian Merlot, 2282. You might want to let it breathe first.
TORRES: We've got all night to let it breathe,
CREWMAN (voiceover): Engineering to Lieutenant Torres.
TORRES: Torres here.
CREWMAN (voiceover): We're having a problem with the plasma manifold. I thought you'd want to take a look.
TORRES: I don't. Lock it down for now, I'll deal with it in the morning. Torres out. Sometimes it's nice to be the Chief Engineer.
PARIS: Try the salad, Chief.
TORRES: Hmm. This is really delicious.
PARIS: Oh, thanks. I replicated it myself.
TORRES: Mmm, you're too good for me. Ignore it.
PARIS: Right. I'll get rid of them.
KIM: Oh, hi, er, sorry to interrupt. Hi, B'Elanna.
PARIS: Harry, I'm not home.
KIM: I just wanted to return this.
PARIS: Thanks.
KIM: Smells good.
PARIS: That's it. No more interruptions.
TORRES: You know, I've been thinking about what the captain said.
PARIS: Thinking maybe she was right? Me, too.
TORRES: We have been a little out of control lately.
PARIS: Do you think we really were?
TORRES: What?
PARIS: Out of control. Those aliens could have just been messing around with our hormones just to see what would happen.
TORRES: You're right, they could have. And we don't know how long they were on board. They could have been tampering with us for months.
PARIS: Well, when you think about it you did have a pretty abrupt change of heart a couple of weeks ago. What made you realize that you love me all of a sudden?
TORRES: Just a feeling. So our whole relationship might be based on some alien experiment.
PARIS: You never know.
TORRES: Well, I think that explains it.
PARIS: I guess we should just call it off, then.
TORRES: I think so.
PARIS: Thank God we found out in time.
TORRES: Thank God.
PARIS: I don't know about you, but I'm curious to see how this experiment turns out.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
OBRIST: Temporal incursion is complete. All organisms and man-made objects have been eradicated.
ANNORAX: Probe the continuum. Has our target event been achieved?
OBRIST: Negative. Negative target event. I don't understand, sir. We spent months making these calculations.
ANNORAX: Time is patient, so we must be patient with it. Eradicating a single Zahl colony wasn't enough for a total restoration. We have to work on a larger scale. Take us to the Zahl homeworld. Prepare a new set of calculations. We must erase the entire species from time. Every lifeform, every molecule.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: Space, the great unknown, Only now we're going to know it a little better. Harry?
CHAKOTAY: Before there were maps and globes, let alone radar and subspace sensors, mariners navigated by the stars. We're returning to that tried and true method, but this time there's a difference.
JANEWAY: Ensign Kim and Seven of Nine have merged Starfleet and Borg ingenuity to create this new technology.And I'm sure I speak for the entire crew when I say, thank you. Now, how the hell does it work?
SEVEN: Astrometric sensors measure the radiative flux of up to three billion stars simultaneously. The computer then calculates our position relative to the center of the galaxy.
KIM: This mapping technology is ten times more accurate than what we've been using. Seven, will you do the honors? We've plotted a new course home.
SEVEN: By my estimates this trajectory will eliminate five years from your journey.
NEELIX: Our journey. Nice work, Seven.
TORRES: That region of space we're about to enter. It looks like it has a lot of M-class planets.
SEVEN: It does. Spatial grid zero zero five. Primary species, the Zahl.
TUVOK: What do we know about this species?
SEVEN: Technologically advanced but nonconfrontational. Their resistance quotient is quite low.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you all for coming. We've got a lot of work to do, so
EMH: I'd like to say a few words if I may. I've prepared a speech for this occasion. When I was first activated on Stardate 48315, and I found myself mano a mano with the Delta Quadrant, I didn't think we'd survive a week, let alone three years. There was strife. There was discord. You were all at each others throats. But over time, I've had the pleasure and pride of watching this crew learn to work together as colleagues, even friends.
PARIS: Hear, hear.
EMH: Who would have thought that this eclectic group of voyagers could actually become a family? Starfleet, Maquis, Klingon, Talaxian, hologram, Borg, even Mister Paris. Granted, we've had our share of difficulties. One might say, we've seen the best of times and the worst of times. I'd now like to recount some of those times from my unique perspective. Under the category of best of times, I invite you all to recall the moment when I
CREWMAN (voiceover): Bridge to captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.
CREWMAN (voiceover): We're being hailed. A vessel off the port bow.
CHAKOTAY: On our way.
EMH: Perhaps we could all reconvene later?

[Bridge]
LANG: They're firing on us, Captain.
TUVOK: It's a small vessel, fifteen lifeforms aboard. Low warp capacity, limited armaments. They pose no threat.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. Good day, sir. Have we offended you in some way?
KRENIM COMMANDANT (screen): You will reverse course immediately. This region is in dispute. You have no business in Krenim space.
JANEWAY: I was under the impression we were entering Zahl territory.
KRENIM COMMANDANT (screen): The Zahl have no legitimate claim here. They have taken what is ours. Reverse course or be destroyed.
JANEWAY: With all due respect, unless you've got something a little bigger in your torpedo tubes, I'm not turning around. But I'm certainly willing to discuss this issue with you.
KRENIM COMMANDANT (screen): No discussion! No compromise!
TUVOK: They are in retreat.
CHAKOTAY: His bark's obviously worse than his bite.
JANEWAY: He seems rather intent. Let's go to yellow alert. Maintain our course. Maybe the Zahl can give us some answers.

[Briefing room]
OFFICIAL: As long as you travel in Zahl territory you travel among friends. I apologize for your mishap with the Krenim.
JANEWAY: It was hardly traumatic, but I am curious. The Krenim claim this region as their own.
ZAHL OFFICIAL: The Krenim dominated this space many years ago. They possessed deadly weapons based on temporal science, and it kept them in power for a long time. But a generation ago we fought the Krenim. We defeated them and took back the planets that they had annexed, dismantled their military forces. Their ships still wander our territory making grandiose claims. Don't let them trouble you. Now, tell me about Voyager. A single ship alone, half a galaxy from home. How exciting for you.
KIM (voiceover): Bridge to Captain. Sorry to interrupt, but the Krenim vessel is back. They're demanding to speak with you.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Hello again.
KRENIM COMMANDANT (screen): You've ignored our warnings, and now you consort with our enemy.
ZAHL OFFICIAL: Leave this space or I'll seize your vessel and send you home in a cargo container.
JANEWAY: Gentlemen, please. Believe me, we're not conspiring against you.
KIM: Captain, there's a spatial distortion heading towards us. Whatever it is, it's huge. Five light years across and it's expanding.
TUVOK: Tracking it's origin. A vessel near the Zahl homeworld.
ZAHL OFFICIAL: What?
TUVOK: It appears to be a massive build-up of temporal energy. Some kind of space-time shock wave.
JANEWAY: Tom.
PARIS: It's destabilizing our warp field. I've lost engines.
JANEWAY: Shields to full. Secure primary systems. All hands, brace for impact.
CHAKOTAY: She's dead.
TUVOK: Shields at seventy percent. The Krenim are firing again. We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: It's about time. On screen. We've done nothing to provoke these attacks.
KRENIM COMMANDANT (screen): Your presence in our space is provocation enough.
JANEWAY: We've been trying to communicate with your vessels but the only answer I get is weapons fire.
KRENIM COMMANDANT (screen): State your identity.
JANEWAY: Captain Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager.
KRENIM COMMANDANT (screen): And your reason for violating our borders?
JANEWAY: We're simply trying to get home. If you'd kindly allow us to pass through
KRENIM COMMANDANT (screen): No. You will submit to the Krenim Imperium. I would prefer to seize your vessel before it is too badly damaged. Surrender now and I will forego the execution of your crew.
JANEWAY: I don't respond well to threats.
KRENIM COMMANDANT (screen): Then prepare to be boarded.
JANEWAY: All hands, battle stations. This is turning into the Week of Hell.
TUVOK: They are charging weapons. Three seconds to impact.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers.
KIM: Direct hit to our secondary hull.
CHAKOTAY: I still don't understand why these torpedoes are ripping right through our shields.
TUVOK: Their weapons are chronoton based. They're penetrating our shields because they're in a state of temporal flux.
JANEWAY: Then lets exercise the better part of valor. Get us out of here, warp six.
PARIS: Warp six. No sign of pursuit.
JANEWAY: Damage report.
TUVOK: Fifteen wounded. Main power is down. We've lost environmental control on decks seven and eight. The computer is offline.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, do we have any sensors left?
KIM: Short range only.
JANEWAY: Commander, put the ship on twenty four hour tactical alert. Tuvok, analyze whatever data we've got on those chronoton torpedoes. See if you can modify our shielding. When those Krenim attack again, I want to be ready.

[Krenim Timeship - Annorax's office]
ANNORAX: Enter.
OBRIST: Sir, you were correct. The Zahl homeworld was the focal point. Its erasure has produced a complete temporal restoration.
ANNORAX: Complete?
OBRIST: Yes, sir.
ANNORAX: If I told you to count the stars in the cosmos would the task ever be complete?
OBRIST: Sir?
ANNORAX: Our attempts may be sufficient. They may be even relatively successful, but they will never be complete. Choose your words with more precision.
OBRIST: My apologies.
ANNORAX: What were the exact results?
OBRIST: The Krenim Imperium has been restored to power. Our territory now includes eight hundred and forty nine inhabited worlds spanning five thousand parsecs.
ANNORAX: Counter indications?
OBRIST: Negligible. No superior enemy forces, no unexpected diseases. Calculations indicate a ninety eight percent restoration. Our race is thriving once again.
ANNORAX: The, er, the colony at Kyana Prime. That was restored as well?
OBRIST: No, sir. In this timeline the Imperium does not extend that far.
ANNORAX: Then our mission has failed. Begin calculations for the next incursion.
OBRIST: Sir, we have just accomplished the impossible. A ninety eight percent restoration. Another incursion, even a minor one, could undermine everything. We should dismantle this weapon and rejoin our people.
ANNORAX: No, not until every colony, every individual, every blade of grass is restored.
OBRIST: You said yourself our task will never be complete. Please. We should be satisfied with what we have accomplished. For two hundred years, we have never come this close.
ANNORAX: Not close enough.
OBRIST: If I may speak my thoughts. Many among the crew are convinced that you have lost your objectivity. They think your quest for precision is unrealistic. Sir, we will never restore one hundred percent of what we had. We can manipulate the time continuum for another ten centuries. It will never happen.
ANNORAX: Return to your station and begin a new set of calculations. Is that clear?
OBRIST: Perfectly.
ANNORAX: You surprise me, Obrist, After so many years, you still perceive time through conventional eyes. Never is a word that has no meaning here. As long as we stay on this vessel, protected from space-time, we have all eternity to accomplish our mission.
OBRIST: Of course, sir.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Return fire.
TUVOK: Weapons are down. My attempt to modify the shielding was unsuccessful.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, during that last exchange we did some damage. The Krenim's aft shields are down. They're vulnerable.
PARIS: We've got to hit them, now.
KIM: With what? Phaser banks are burned out, torpedo launchers are offline.
EMH (voiceover): Doctor to bridge. We've got a power overload in Sickbay. I need an engineer down here right away.
CHAKOTAY: Stand by, Doctor. Harry, can you handle it from here?
KIM: No, sir. The overload's spreading. Half that deck is going to blow in less than five minutes.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, get your patients out of there. All hands, this is the bridge. Emergency evacuation deck five.
JANEWAY: How many torpedoes do we have left?
TUVOK: Eleven.
JANEWAY: Arm four of them. Stand by to open the launch doors. We're going to deploy them like mines.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Tom, I need your finesse. Let the Krenim get within five thousand meters of us.
PARIS: No problem.

[Deck five]
EMH: Keep moving. Quickly, please, move quickly.
COMPUTER: Warning, structural collapse in three minutes.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Torpedoes armed and ready.
PARIS: They're within range.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, do it.
PARIS: Got him!
KIM: The conduits on deck five are overloading. Thirty seconds till they blow.

[Deck five]
EMH: Keep moving! Please hurry. That's it.
COMPUTER: Warning, structural collapse

[Bridge]
COMPUTER: In twenty seconds.
KIM: Fifteen seconds!

[Jefferies Tube deck five]
COMPUTER: Warning, structural collapse in ten seconds. Warning, structural collapse in five, four, three, two, one.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report!
KIM: Sections ten through fifty three on deck five are gone.
JANEWAY: Casualties?
TUVOK: Reports are coming in. Twelve wounded, many of them critically. The Doctor is setting up a triage facility in the mess hall. Two crew members were killed in the breach.
JANEWAY: Stand down Red alert. Assemble a security team. Survey the ship deck by deck. I want a full damage report. I'll be in my ready room. You have the bridge. What's left of it.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in. Sorry about the mess.
CHAKOTAY: You should see my place. They haven't looked as bad since my old Academy days.
JANEWAY: Is there something on your mind?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, but you're not going to like it.
JANEWAY: That's never stopped you before. Broken.
CHAKOTAY: I'll be blunt. Our strategy is failing. It was a good idea to try and create temporal shielding but it isn't working.
JANEWAY: Not yet, but it will. With every attack we're getting more information about their chronoton weapons.
CHAKOTAY: How many more attacks will it take? Before long, there won't be a ship left to protect.
JANEWAY: We don't have a choice.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we do.
JANEWAY: Here comes the part I'm not going to like.
CHAKOTAY: We should consider leaving the ship behind, breaking the crew into smaller groups. Escape pods, shuttles, each one with its own course. If all goes well, we'll rendezvous on the other side of Krenim space.
JANEWAY: Then what?
CHAKOTAY: We'll cross that bridge when we come to it. But at least we'd be increasing our chances of survival.
JANEWAY: Abandon ship? The answer's no. I'm not breaking up the family, Chakotay. We're stronger as a team. One crew, one ship. The moment we split apart, we lose the ability to pool our talents. We become vulnerable. We'll get picked off one by one. Now I say we make our stand. Together.
CHAKOTAY: To be honest, I wasn't too fond of the idea myself.
JANEWAY: As long as Voyager's in one piece, we stay.
CHAKOTAY: We stay. This looks like it stayed in one piece. Where does this go?
JANEWAY: My lucky teacup. Right over here.
PARIS (voiceover): Red alert. We're under attack. Two Krenim warships off the port bow.

[Turbolift]
TORRES: When are they going to get us out of here?
KIM: Try to relax. Let's get back to the game. Grace Kelly. Cat burglars. The Riviera. Name the title and the male lead.
TORRES: To Catch A Thief.
KIM: Right.
TORRES: Clark Gable.
KIM: Wrong. Cary Grant.
TORRES: I've seen the holographic version twice. It's Clark Gable.
KIM: I think you're getting them confused because they have the same initials. It was Grant.
TORRES: No more twentieth century entertainment. I'm terrible at it. My turn. Category, athletics.
KIM: Fire away.
TORRES: A notorious athlete, Parrises Squares championship finals, er, controversial decision.
KIM: M'Kota R'Cho. The first and only Klingon to play the game. During the finals of 2342 one of the referees called a penalty against his team. R'Cho strangled him.
TORRES: Impressive.
KIM: You're looking at a true sports aficionado. Let's see, how about interstellar history?
TORRES: Oh, great. You pick the one subject I almost failed at the Academy. Go ahead and ask. Ow!
KIM: Are you all right?
TORRES: It just hurts a little. Feels like we've been here for days.
KIM: Actually, it's been about six hours. Try to hang on, B'Elanna. The emergency crews are going find us any minute. Come on, hurry up!
TORRES: Go ahead and ask your stupid question before I pass out and you don't have anybody to play with.
KIM: Okay. Er, it's a famous ship. Er, pre-warp civilization. Er, Montana. Er, second stage had chemical engines.
TORRES: Another clue.
KIM: Vulcans. Er, Earth, First Contact.
TORRES: Oh, right, right. Er, er, er, Zephram Cochrane's ship. What was it called? Oh, it's on the tip of my tongue. Ow!
KIM: Okay, here, here, you'd better lie down now. Enough trivia for now.
TORRES: No, no, I'm going to get this one.
SEVEN: Lieutenant. Ensign.
TORRES: It's about time. What happened to the turbolift?
SEVEN: During the last attack nineteen main power relays were severed. The entire turbolift system is non-operational.

[Corridor]
TORRES: Get me to the Jefferies tube network on deck eleven. The EPS manifold must have taken a hit, too.
KIM: Seven of Nine can go take a look. We have to get you to the Doctor.
TORRES: All right.
SEVEN: The Phoenix.
KIM: What?
SEVEN: The correct response to your query. The vessel Ensign Kim was describing. It was designated the Phoenix.
KIM: Not bad. I didn't realize you knew so much about Earth history.
SEVEN: I don't, but the Borg were present during those events.
KIM: Really.
SEVEN: It's a complicated story. Perhaps another time.
TORRES: I think so.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Transverse bulkheads. We've set up emergency forcefields between all decks and every section. In the event of a cataclysmic breach most of us will be protected.
JANEWAY: Ingenious.
CHAKOTAY: Actually, you can thank Mister Paris. He came up with the idea.
PARIS: I was inspired by an ancient steamship, the Titanic. The engineers of the day constructed a series of special bulkheads, sort of like a honeycomb, that would lower into place if they suffered a major hull breach. In theory, they could stay afloat even with half the ship filled with water.
JANEWAY: The Titanic? As I recall, it sank.
PARIS: Well, let's just say I've made a few improvements.
JANEWAY: I knew your fixation with history would come in handy someday. Good work.
EMH (voiceover): Doctor to Lieutenant Paris.
PARIS: Go ahead, Doc.
EMH (voiceover): Report to the mess hall at once. More wounded are one the way.
PARIS: I'll be right there. I'm a popular guy today.

[Jefferies tube]
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Tuvok.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok here.
SEVEN: There is an undetonated chronoton torpedo lodged in the starboard Jefferies tube on deck eleven, section two. The warhead is still active.
TUVOK (voiceover): Do not attempt to disarm it. Hold your position and wait for my arrival. Is that clear?
SEVEN: Arrive quickly.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: I've stopped the internal bleeding. You're going to be okay.
TORRES: Is that your expert opinion?
PARIS: That's a promise. I know it still hurts.
TORRES: It's all right.
PARIS: You've got a ruptured vertebra. I'll see if I can repair it.
EMH: Mister Paris, your assistance please.
PARIS: Give me a minute.
EMH: Now, Lieutenant.
PARIS: I'll be right back. Don't go anywhere.
EMH: In case you hadn't noticed, B'Elanna is not the only patient here.
PARIS: She's in pain.
EMH: But no longer in danger of dying. That is the first rule of medical triage. Make sure the patient will live, then move on to the next one. Emotional detachment is essential otherwise, you risk impairing your judgment.
PARIS: I understand.
EMH: You could be seeing more of your friends in here soon. If you can't handle itm I'll find another assistant. You can leave.
PARIS: Physician, heal thyself.
EMH: What's that supposed to mean?
PARIS: It seems to me that you're the one who's getting emotional around here.
EMH: Several weeks ago, just before the conduits on deck five breached, I saw Ensign Strickler and Crewman Emmanuel at the end of a corridor. They were trying to reach the Jefferies tube. I kept the hatch open, waited for them as long as I could, but time ran out. I had no choice but to seal the hatch.
PARIS: It must have been very hard for you.
EMH: My point is, it could have been worse. Had I lost my objectivity, I might have kept the hatch open and everyone would have perished. This man has damaged lung tissue. Treat him with inaprovaline.

[Jefferies tube]
TUVOK: If we attempt to dislodge the torpedo or move it with the transporters, it will most likely detonate.
SEVEN: Can we disarm it?
TUVOK: No. The warhead is already destabilizing. I estimate it will explode in less than two minutes. If we re-route emergency power to this junction and erect a level ten force field it should be enough to contain the explosion. We must hurry.
SEVEN: If I can determine the exact temporal variance of this torpedo it will help us perfect the temporal shielding.
TUVOK: There is no time.
SEVEN: We may never have this opportunity again.
TUVOK: I am giving you an order. Now!
SEVEN: The temporal variance is one point four seven microseconds.
TUVOK: Excellent work, but if you disobey my orders again I will be forced to
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51268.4. This morning's attack destroyed the power grid on deck eleven. No casualties this time, but the replicator system was badly damaged. We've gone to emergency rations. As a result, the situation has gotten a little worse. Environmental controls continue to fail. Seven decks have been rendered uninhabitable and we've had to relocate the crew. Quarters are close, nerves are frayed, and I'm not sure what's more difficult to maintain. Voyager's systems or the crew's morale. What's important is that we're together, working toward a single goal. Survival.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Happy birthday.
JANEWAY: Happy what?
CHAKOTAY: Today is May twentieth.
JANEWAY: Is it? I thought we were still in April. Guess I've lost track of the time.
CHAKOTAY: Well, this should help.
JANEWAY: It's beautiful.
CHAKOTAY: Nineteenth century, mechanical movement. It's a replica of the chronometer worn by Captain Cray of the British Navy, His ship was hit by a typhoon in the Pacific. Everyone back in England thought they were killed, but eight months later Cray sailed his ship into London harbor. There wasn't much left of it, a few planks, half a sail, but he got his crew home.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the sentiment, but I can't keep this. Recycle it. We can't afford to waste energy on nonessentials.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, I replicated this months ago. I've been saving it. I wanted you to have it.
JANEWAY: That watch represents a meal, a hypospray, or a pair of boots. It could mean the difference between life and death one day.

[Tuvok's quarters]
TUVOK: Enter.
SEVEN: Reporting for duty, Lieutenant.
TUVOK: What is our agenda?
SEVEN: After we make your customary rounds, I'd like to take you to deflector control. I had an inspiration last night about the temporal shielding.
TUVOK: Excellent.
SEVEN: You've been damaged.
TUVOK: A minor laceration.
SEVEN: I have offered to assist you with your personal grooming.
TUVOK: There are some tasks I would rather perform myself.
SEVEN: Unacceptable. You're risking further injury.
TUVOK: Shaving is hardly a life-threatening activity. Tell me about your inspiration.
SEVEN: We've been trying to match our shields to the temporal variance of their torpedoes, but I believe we must also match the deflector array to the inverse of that variance.
TUVOK: Fascinating. When will the deflectors be ready?
SEVEN: They're ready now, but the modifications are untested.
TUVOK: Then our rounds can wait. Take me to deflector control.

[Corridor]
BROOKS: Seven.
SEVEN: Ensign.
TUVOK: A friend of yours?
SEVEN: My cabin mate. As a Borg, I was accustomed to cohabitating with thousands of other drones, but I find it significantly more difficult to live with a single human.
TUVOK: In what way?
SEVEN: Ensign Brooks is negligent. She leaves her equipment lying around the quarters and her clothing on the floor.
TUVOK: Indeed. I have found that most humans are less than meticulous when it comes to their domestic habits.
SEVEN: Indeed.
NEELIX: Mister Vulcan, sir. A tactical question if I may?
TUVOK: You may.
NEELIX: We're just about done rebuilding the internal security sensors, and we're ready to program the audio signal. Do you want it to say intruder alert, or should we try something a little more dramatic, like Warning, intruder alert or, Intruders among us! Danger! Danger! Intruders among us?
TUVOK: Intruder alert will suffice.
NEELIX: Yeah, go with the classic. Understood, sir.
TUVOK: And you believe you have difficulties.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): All hands to battle stations. Krenim vessels approaching. Repeat, all hands to battle stations.
TUVOK: Go to deflector control and bring the new shields online. We will test them in battle.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Computer, activate tactile interface.
CHAKOTAY: Weapons status?
TUVOK: Phasers are still online. Torpedo launchers are still inoperative.
PARIS: The Krenim are within visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TUVOK: Seven's modified temporal shields should be online in a moment.
KIM: It's a warship.
JANEWAY: You know the routine.
PARIS: Evasive maneuvers.
KIM: They're matching course.
CHAKOTAY: Hold them off as long as you can. Bridge to Seven of Nine.

[Deflector control]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Where are those shields?
SEVEN: Stand by.

[Bridge]
KIM: They're charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Seven, we could a little of that Borg efficiency right about now.
PARIS: I can't shake them.
KIM: They're targeting the bridge.

[Deflector control]
SEVEN: Temporal shielding is online.

[Bridge]
KIM: They're firing.
CHAKOTAY: Full port thrusters.
TUVOK: Temporal shields are holding. No damage.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
TUVOK: Channel open.
JANEWAY: Krenim vessels, this is the captain of Voyager. You may have noticed we have a defense against your torpedoes now. I suggest you stand down.
TUVOK: No response.
JANEWAY: Their mistake. Bring the ship about. We're going through their space whether they like it or not.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
OBRIST: We are within range of the Garenor homeworld.
ANNORAX: Set temporal coordinates. Full power to the weapon. Prepare for total erasure of the species.
OBRIST: Targeting the focal point. Ready.
ANNORAX: Fire.
OBRIST: Temporal incursion in progress.
ANNORAX: Trace elements?
OBRIST: Diminishing.
ANNORAX: Counter indications?
OBRIST: None so far. Organisms and structures are being eradicated.
ANNORAX: Track the temporal wavefront as it passes through the system. I want to monitor every change in the timeline as it occurs.
OBRIST: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, the Krenim warship is in pursuit, but their weapons are not powered.
JANEWAY: They don't know what to do with us now that we're shielded against their torpedoes.
KIM: Captain, there's some kind of spatial distortion heading toward us. Sensor readings are erratic. I can't identify the phenomenon.
CHAKOTAY: What's the source?
KIM: Unknown. But it originated approximately twenty light years from our position. It looks like a shockwave in the fabric of space-time.
JANEWAY: Tom, get us out of here.
PARIS: We'll never outrun it, Captain.
JANEWAY: Maybe our new shields will help. All hands, brace for impact.
TUVOK: You were correct, Captain. The temporal shielding has protected us. The wave front has passed.
KIM: Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Report.
KIM: It's definitely a Krenim ship. Identical hull markings, same biospectral frequency, but it's half the size. Limited fire power.
JANEWAY: What happened to the warship?
PARIS: I'm not picking it up on long range sensors.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like this entire part of space has changed somehow. The last time I checked, this region was filled with Krenim colonies and vessels. I just ran a scan and sensors show no colonies and just a handful of Krenim ships.
JANEWAY: Harry, transfer all your sensor data about that shockwave to the Astrometrics lab.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Tell Seven of Nine to meet me there.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, Astrometrics took heavy damage a few days go. It's offline.
JANEWAY: Well, let's get it back online. It appears that the Krenim Imperium has vanished. Our troubles could be over and I'd like to find out why.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
OBRIST: Something went wrong. The entire Krenim Imperium, it's reverted to a pre-warp state.
ANNORAX: Not possible. Our calculations were perfect.
OBRIST: I may have an explanation. There's an anomalous temporal reading twenty light years from here. It's coming from a vessel.
ANNORAX: What vessel?
OBRIST: Component zero four nine beta. A ship called Voyager.
ANNORAX: That ship was classified as an inert component. It shouldn't be generating a temporal field.
OBRIST: But it is. And it was enough to throw off our calculations.
ANNORAX: Take me to them.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Sensors are online. Power levels are stable.
JANEWAY: Is the astrometric database still intact?
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: Display the scans we made of this region before the temporal shockwave hit.
SEVEN: Spatial grid zero zero five.
JANEWAY: The Krenim Imperium. Over two hundred star systems, nine hundred planets, thousands of warp capable vessels. And now, after the shockwave, everything seems to have changed. Run a new scan.
SEVEN: Spatial grid zero zero five.
JANEWAY: Same space, different configuration, exactly as Chakotay said. The Imperium appears to have been reduced to a few planets, and a smattering of vessels. It appears that someone or something has altered history. But why weren't we affected?
SEVEN: Perhaps we were protected from the changes by our temporal shielding.
JANEWAY: So the question remains. What caused that shockwave in the first place? See if you can track it back to its origin.
SEVEN: The shockwave emanated from a planet twenty light years away. The Garenor homeworld.
JANEWAY: The Garenor? We passed their planet three weeks ago.
SEVEN: The planet is no longer populated.
JANEWAY: What?
SEVEN: Astrometric data indicate that the instant the shockwave appeared the Garenor species vanished.
JANEWAY: Erased from history.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm no authority on time travel, in fact I've made it my goal in life to avoid it, but this sounds to me like a causality paradox. Think about it. A temporal shock wave eliminates a single species and all of history changes as a result.
SEVEN: An intriguing theory. Perhaps the Krenim are responsible. They do possess temporal technology.
JANEWAY: But why would they alter history to undermine themselves? No, we're still missing a big piece of the puzzle. Run another scan of the

[Krenim Timeship- Bridge]
OBRIST: Scanning the vessel. Their defensive shielding is generating a level nine temporal disruption.
ANNORAX: Collect samples. Two lifeforms, ten square meters of the hull.
OBRIST: Yes, sir.
ANNORAX: Disable their shielding. Prepare to initiate a temporal incursion.

[Bridge]
KIM: That entire vessel's in a state of temporal flux. It's like they exist outside space-time.
PARIS: They're scanning us.
JANEWAY: Get a lock on them.
KIM: I'm trying, but I can't isolate their signals.
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
ANNORAX (screen): State your identity.
JANEWAY: I'm Captain Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager. Who are you, and where are my men?
ANNORAX (screen): I am Annorax of the Krenim Imperium. We've transferred your crewmen to my vessel for further analysis. Your ship does not come from this quadrant.
JANEWAY: We come from Earth, a planet sixty five thousand light years from here. We're on our way home.
ANNORAX (screen): I see.
JANEWAY: We've been observing some rather unusual events in the region. It seems your Imperium never existed. Perhaps you could shed some light on this?
ANNORAX (screen): That doesn't concern you. What is important is that you understand that I bear you no hostility. But you have diverted me from my mission.
JANEWAY: Your mission? You're responsible for the changes in the timeline.
ANNORAX (screen): You're a long way from your world. In a manner of speaking, so am I. Unfortunately, only one of us can go home again. Your sacrifice will restore the lives of countless millions. I'm sorry.
KIM: I'm reading a massive energy build-up. Some kind of weapon.
JANEWAY: Shields.
SEVEN: Temporal shields are weakening.
KIM: Captain, that energy beam. It's pushing Voyager out of the space-time continuum.
JANEWAY: He's trying to erase us from history.
SEVEN: I've scanned their propulsion system. Their vessel's mass prevents them from exceeding warp six. We can escape.
TUVOK: Captain, I must remind you our structural integrity is still impaired. If we go to warp now, the damage to Voyager will be extreme.
KIM: What about Tom and Chakotay?
JANEWAY: We'll have to come back for them. All hands clear the outer sections and prepare for wide-scale breaches. Tuvok, activate the transverse bulkheads.
SEVEN: Temporal shields are failing.
JANEWAY: Engage warp seven.
KIM: They're not in pursuit.
TUVOK: We're losing the outer hull. Transverse bulkheads are holding.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Each of you has done their best, but determination alone isn't going to hold this ship together. It's time we faced reality. We've lost nine decks. More than half the ship has been destroyed. Life support is nearly gone. Voyager can no longer sustain it's crew. I promised myself that I would never give this order, that I would never break up this family, but asking you to stay would be asking you to die. You will proceed to the escape pods and evacuate this vessel. Set your course for the Alpha Quadrant. Along the way, try to find allies. Secure faster ships, if you can. Anything to get home. The senior staff and I will remain on board as long as possible. We will try somehow to rescue Tom and Chakotay. The escape pods are equipped with subspace beacons. That's how we'll keep track of you. When we find each other again, and we will, we will find each other again, I expect all of you to be in one piece with some interesting stories to tell. Good luck.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51425.4. Our condition has left us vulnerable to spatial anomalies and to any alien species eager for a piece of hardware. We've taken refuge in a class nine nebula.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Come on. Don't do this to me now. Emergency forcefields are holding. How the hell did all this gas get inside?
KIM: Looks like a malfunction in the ventilation system. Okay, I'm going to try reversing the osmotic pressure on this deck. Whoa! The gas corroded the circuit relays.
JANEWAY: Let's bypass.
KIM: We've got three minutes of air left.
JANEWAY: How long can you hold your breath?

[Bridge]
EMH: Ensign Kim found time to be treated. So can you.
JANEWAY: How is Harry?
EMH: He'll be fine, but I'm surprised he didn't asphyxiate. I told you eight minutes on that deck, not eight and a half, not nine, and certainly not twelve.
JANEWAY: Would you rather have an indoor nebula? If we didn't stop it then and there, it would have flooded another two decks. B'Elanna, engines?
TORRES: Not yet Captain. One of the warp nacelles is still offline. The other one's a lost cause.
JANEWAY: Route all available power to the good one.
EMH: The alveoli in your lungs have been chemically burned. I want you off your feet for the next forty eight hours.
JANEWAY: Impossible. I've got too much work to do.
EMH: There are seven other crew members on board. You're the captain. Delegate.
JANEWAY: Inject me with trioxin. That should help me breathe a little easier. B'Elanna, stand by for the transfer.
TORRES: Right.
EMH: Trioxin is used in emergency situations as a stop-gap measure. Your lungs have suffered serious damage. They need to be treated properly. Doctor's orders.
JANEWAY: Captain's orders. Trioxin. Now.
EMH: Aye, aye. It's your body. Who am I to judge? I'm only the Chief Medical officer. What do I know?
JANEWAY: Thank you. Now, where were we?

[Krenim Timeship - Annorax' chambers]
ANNORAX: Well, you look rested.
CHAKOTAY: Where's my crewmate?
ANNORAX: He should have been here by now. No doubt he's making himself difficult. I've never seen such an intransigent young man.
CHAKOTAY: You've had us in isolation for two months. We've been scanned, poked and prodded. How do you expect us to act?
ANNORAX: With some degree of dignity and restraint. Your crewmate has none.
CHAKOTAY: What do you want from us?
ANNORAX: At the moment, information.
PARIS: Anything for such a charming host. Are you all right?
ANNORAX: The galley has prepared a selection of unique delicacies. You won't find them anywhere else in the galaxy. Please, join me.
ANNORAX: Malkothian spirits. An extremely rare vintage. The only bottle known to exist. Your captain said that your vessel is trying to reach home. I hadn't realized how far your home was. You're an anomalous component. Alone, disconnected, impossible to predict. You have no idea how you've complicated my mission.
PARIS: Glad to hear it.
ANNORAX: When I first encountered your vessel, it was badly damaged, barely functioning. What if I told you that in the blink of an eye I could restore Voyager to its former condition, that you and I would never have met. that you might even find yourself closer to the Alpha Quadrant?
CHAKOTAY: By using the weapon on this ship to alter history?
ANNORAX: Yes. I can control the destiny of a single molecule or an entire civilization. How's the wine?
CHAKOTAY: Excellent.
ANNORAX: This bottle is the only component left of the once powerful Malkoth race. Everything else about them, cities, culture, the very species itself never existed, because of me. Every dish you see here comes from a civilization that has been erased from time. Mister Paris, you're devouring the last remnants of the Alsuran Empire. I have collected artifacts from hundreds of worlds. This vessel is more than a weapon. It's a museum of lost histories. You two gentlemen almost became artifacts yourselves, but I've decided to spare your vessel.
PARIS: Why?
ANNORAX: Call it an act of compassion. You're trying to reach home. In a way, so am I. We can work together to achieve both our goals.
CHAKOTAY: What do you propose?
ANNORAX: In order to make the calculations required to restore Voyager, I need to know about some of your experiences in this quadrant. What species you interacted with, how other components were affected by your presence.
PARIS: You can't find her, can you? I think Captain Janeway has been eluding you for the past two months. Otherwise you would've destroyed Voyager by now.
ANNORAX: I'm offering you a way out of this situation. You accept my offer, or when I do find Voyager I will destroy it.
PARIS: And how many civilizations will you have to erase to send us merrily on our way? No thanks. We don't want that kind of blood on our hands.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, hold on. You said you could control the destiny of a single molecule. If you made a precise enough calculation, could you restore Voyager without harming anyone?
ANNORAX: It is possible, but it's extremely difficult. That's why I need your cooperation.
PARIS: I'd rather spend a year in solitary confinement than listen to any of this.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, have a seat.
PARIS: Chakotay, we can't trust him.
ANNORAX: You're correct. Given the circumstances, there is no reason to trust me. But trust isn't necessary. We need each other.
ANNORAX: Obrist, show our guest to his new quarters. I'll do everything in my power to make you comfortable here, Mister Paris. All I ask in return is that you keep an open mind.
ANNORAX: I was very impressed with your question. You seem to understand the subtleties of time.
CHAKOTAY: Professor Vassbinder might've disagreed with you. I failed his course in temporal mechanics.
ANNORAX: Beyond study and instrumentation, there is instinct. Not everyone has the ability to truly perceive time. Its colors, its moods. Perhaps you do.
CHAKOTAY: I'm certainly willing to give it a try.

[Mess hall]
TORRES: To distant friends.
NEELIX: To friends.
JANEWAY: Hear, hear.
KIM: Cheers.
SEVEN: Yes.
NEELIX: Well?
TUVOK: Interesting.
KIM: Not bad. Not bad at all.
TORRES: What is it exactly?
NEELIX: I call it the Elixir of Endurance. It's loaded with amino acids, carbohydrates, all the nutrients necessary for the crew to withstand these stressful conditions.
TORRES: Ration cubes.
NEELIX: Well, yes, yes. But this time, pureed and mixed with water and enhanced with Talaxian spices.
SEVEN: It is offensive. Fortunately taste is irrelevant.
JANEWAY: Well, it's been a few days since we've gathered in one place. Now's a good time to catch up. How are the repairs proceeding?
EMH: I'm happy to report that I've repaired the optronic error in my program.
JANEWAY: And the power grid?
KIM: We're operating at thirty two percent efficiency. I think I can bring it up to fifty, but I'll need a few more days.
JANEWAY: Warp drive?
TORRES: I'm still having trouble with the starboard nacelle.
JANEWAY: How long?
TORRES: Three weeks. Minimum.
JANEWAY: I thought this nebula would be a safe haven until we finished repairs, but it's turning into a permanent residence. We've got to get back into open space, find allies, put together a fighting force to take on Annorax. We're leaving this damn cloud first thing tomorrow morning.
SEVEN: Captain, you are in error.
JANEWAY: Really?
SEVEN: At the moment this vessel is defenseless. We should remain here until we are functioning at our peak efficiency.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your opinion, Seven, but I disagree. We leave tomorrow, oh eight hundred hours.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: It is inappropriate to contradict the captain in front of the crew.
SEVEN: That was not my intention. I simply pointed out that her decision was wrong.
TUVOK: In your view.
SEVEN: And yours. I know you well enough to say that.
TUVOK: Then you should also know that my trust in Captain Janeway is absolute. The decision you or I might have made is irrelevant.
SEVEN: As a Borg, I submitted to a single authority, the Collective. Over the past several months I've been encouraged to think and act as an individual. It is difficult to know when to restrain myself.
TUVOK: Remember this guideline. The captain is always right.
SEVEN: Even when you know her logic is flawed?
TUVOK: Perhaps.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Component 37329, a rogue comet. About eight months ago, Voyager made a course correction to avoid the comet. According to my calculations, it led to our entering Krenim space.
ANNORAX: The solution, then, would be to erase that comet from history.
CHAKOTAY: Exactly. Voyager would have stayed on its course and bypassed Krenim space altogether.
ANNORAX: Sounds simple enough. Conduct a simulation.
CHAKOTAY: Temporal incursion in progress. What happened?
ANNORAX: Had you actually eradicated that comet, all life within fifty light years would never have existed. Congratulations, You almost wiped out eight thousand civilizations.
CHAKOTAY: I didn't consider the entire history of the comet.
ANNORAX: Four billion years ago, fragments from that comet impacted a planet. Hydrocarbons from those fragments gave rise to several species of plant life, which in turn sustained more complex organisms. Ultimately several space-faring civilizations evolved and colonized the entire sector.
CHAKOTAY: By erasing the comet I altered all evolution in this region.
ANNORAX: Past, present and future. They exist as one. They breathe together. You're not the only person to make this mistake. When I first constructed this weapon ship, I turned it against our greatest enemy, the Rilnar. The result was miraculous. With the Rilnar gone from history, my people, in an instant, became powerful again. But there were problems. A rare disease broke out among our colonies. Within a year, fifty million were dead. I had failed to realize that the Rilnar had introduced a crucial antibody into the Krenim genome, and my weapon had eliminated that antibody as well.
CHAKOTAY: And you've been trying to undo that damage ever since. But each time you pull out a new thread, another one begins to unravel.
ANNORAX: You can't imagine the burden of memory that I carry. Thousands of worlds, billions of lives, gone, brought back, gone again. I try to rationalize the loss. They're not really being destroyed, because they never existed. Sometimes I can almost convince myself.
CHAKOTAY: You've been at this for two hundred years, Annorax. What makes you think you're ever going to succeed?
ANNORAX: What makes you think Voyager will ever reach Earth? The odds against you are astronomical, yet you keep trying.
CHAKOTAY: You're right. But we don't destroy everything that stands in our way.
ANNORAX: You can help me to change that, Chakotay. Together, we'll restore the Krenim and Voyager and we'll undo the damage that I've caused.
CHAKOTAY: I've still got a lot to learn.
ANNORAX: Come. It's time I show you the heart of this vessel. The temporal core.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Engines.
TORRES: I'm doing my best.
KIM: Captain, with the deflector down those micrometeoroids are beginning to erode the hull.
JANEWAY: Emergency power to the deflector.
TUVOK: None available.
JANEWAY: I'll be in deflector control.
TUVOK: Captain. That entire section has been designated hazard level four.
JANEWAY: I know.

[Outside Deflector control]
JANEWAY: Oh, why do I get the feeling you're testing me, Voyager? Bridge, there's a fire in deflector control. Any luck with the engines?

[Bridge]
TORRES: The warp core's still offline.
KIM: Micro-meteoroid density

[Outside Deflector control]
KIM (voiceover): Is increasing. The nacelle pylon is buckling.
JANEWAY: Bridge, I'm going in. Stand by to engage the deflector. Tell the Doctor I'll be coming

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Back with severe burns.
TUVOK: Captain.

[Outside Deflector control]
JANEWAY: Do it. Be kind.

[Bridge]
KIM: The captain's accessed manual control. She's stabilizing the particle emitters. She's got it! Deflectors online!
TUVOK: Activating deflector field. Bridge to Janeway. Captain, please respond.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: What's my condition?
EMH: You suffered third degree burns to approximately sixty percent of your body. I've healed most of them, but without a dermal regenerator I couldn't repair all the damage to your skin. You've been left with scars on your face and arms.
JANEWAY: I'll consider them mementos.
EMH: Not so fast. You're spending the next few days here with me.
JANEWAY: What for?
EMH: Observation.
JANEWAY: Is there something else wrong with me?
EMH: Not physically.
JANEWAY: What are you suggesting?
EMH: Traumatic stress syndrome. Symptoms. Irritability, sleeplessness, obsessional thoughts, reckless behavior. All of which you've demonstrated over the last few weeks.
JANEWAY: My only obsession is with saving my ship, my people. If I've been taking some reckless chances in order to do that, it's hardly a medical condition.
EMH: I'm not going to stand here while you rationalize yet another brush with death.
JANEWAY: You don't have to.
EMH: As Chief Medical Officer, I have the authority to relieve you of your command.
JANEWAY: You're not going to do that.
EMH: If, in my medical opinion, your judgment has been impaired, I can. And I will.
JANEWAY: Try it and I'll shut down your program.
EMH: That threat in itself is evidence of your unstable condition.
JANEWAY: I am sorry, Doctor. I've been operating on instinct for so long I did not think before I spoke. I have no intention of deactivating you. But I won't stay in this mess hall.
EMH: Is that final?
JANEWAY: Final.
EMH: Then you leave me no choice. Captain Kathryn Janeway, under Starfleet medical regulation one twenty one, section A, I, the Chief Medical Officer, do hereby relieve you of your active command, effective immediately. Have a seat.
JANEWAY: How do you plan to implement this protocol, Doctor? Mister Tuvok doesn't have a security team, both the brigs have been destroyed, and with the internal forcefields offline you'll have a hell of a time keeping me confined. You'd better grab a phaser, because before I give up command you'll have to shoot me.
EMH: You realize this incident will be noted in my official logs. By refusing my orders you risk a general court martial.
JANEWAY: Compared to what I've been through the past few months, a court martial would be a small price to pay. If we make it back home I'll be happy to face the music.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Another ruptured EPS conduit.
NEELIX: Thirty two so far.
JANEWAY: Thirty three, thirty four, thirty five. And that fluidic converter needs to be purged.
NEELIX: Right.
JANEWAY: The gravitational plating in this room has buckled.
NEELIX: Chakotay's quarters.

[Chakotay's quarters]
JANEWAY: You disobeyed orders.
NEELIX: Captain?
JANEWAY: Chakotay gave this to me five months ago. A birthday gift. I ordered him to
JANEWAY: What do you think?
NEELIX: Handsome.
JANEWAY: Come on.

[Krenim Timeship - Paris' quarters]
OBRIST: Astounding.
PARIS: Not really. I get lucky now and again.
OBRIST: Your end game sequence, it, er, it was the same one favored by my brother.
PARIS: To quote a long lost friend of mine, it seemed logical. Now what?
OBRIST: I used to honor the day of his birth.
PARIS: Who?
OBRIST: My brother. And my parents, my closest friends. Every year at first. Then one day I realized a century had passed, and for years I had been celebrating birthdays for the dead. Or for people who never even existed.
PARIS: I'm sorry.

[Krenim Timeship - Chakotay's quarters]
PARIS: You can put that thing down, Chakotay. No need to strain your eyes anymore, I've got a plan.
CHAKOTAY: Let's hear it.
PARIS: This ship's temporal core keeps the vessel out of phase with normal space-time, but it's shields are incredibly weak. You take that core offline, and a photon grenade could penetrate the hull.
CHAKOTAY: How do you know all this?
PARIS: I've been spending time with our friend Obrist, who seems more than willing to share information. And that's not all. Does the name Captain Bligh mean anything to you? This is not a happy crew. They've been at this for two hundred years now. They're tired of it, Chakotay. They want it to end.
CHAKOTAY: Good work, Tom. But I'm not quite ready to start a mutiny. Keep gathering information, lie low. I'm starting to make progress on the temporal calculations. With a little time and luck I think we can get the Krenim back on their feet, and Voyager back to the Alpha Quadrant.
PARIS: You're starting to sound like Annorax. Always one more calculation. This time it's going to be perfect.
CHAKOTAY: This can work. If you'd take the time to listen you'd understand what Annorax is trying to do.
PARIS: What? Wipe out civilizations to help his own race? I understand perfectly.
CHAKOTAY: It's more complicated than that. Annorax is an enlightened man. Misguided, but I think he wants this to end as much as anyone.
PARIS: I guess I don't have the instinct for Time, or whatever it is Captain Nemo out there calls it. Chakotay, he's been flattering you and it's gone to your head.
CHAKOTAY: You're out of line, Lieutenant
PARIS: Maybe I shouldn't start a mutiny, but I might be able to get Obrist to help us send a message to Captain Janeway.
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. If you get caught, we lose everything. I can get us out of this.
PARIS: Not if I get us out of here first.
CHAKOTAY: You're not doing anything against Annorax. That's an order.
PARIS: What are you going to do, take away my holodeck privileges?
CHAKOTAY: Either we maintain our command structure, or else we settle our differences the old fashioned way.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: What's happening?
ANNORAX: We're preparing for a temporal incursion.
CHAKOTAY: What incursion? You didn't say anything about
ANNORAX: I had an inspiration last night. By my calculations the eradication of the Ram Izad species will result in a fifty two percent restoration of the Krenim timeline.
CHAKOTAY: I thought we were working to avoid more destruction.
ANNORAX: When Time offers you an opportunity you don't ignore it.
OBRIST: We're within range of their homeworld.
ANNORAX: Take us into orbit. Full power to the weapon. Prepare for total erasure.
PARIS: Is this what you call enlightened?
OBRIST: Targeting the focal point. Locked.
CHAKOTAY: Please. This isn't necessary. We'll find another way.
ANNORAX: Fire. Trace elements?
OBRIST: Diminishing.
ANNORAX: Counter indications?
OBRIST: None so far.
ANNORAX: Scan the continuum. Bring me the results once they're complete.
OBRIST: Yes, sir.
ANNORAX: I'll be in my chambers.
PARIS: Have you seen enough yet, Chakotay? If you don't do something about this maniac, I will.

[Krenim Timeship - Annorax's chambers]
CHAKOTAY: You didn't need to fire on that planet.
ANNORAX: I'm altering history on a massive scale. The destinies of countless star systems are in my hands. The fate of one species is insignificant.
CHAKOTAY: You're trying to rationalize genocide. One species is significant. A single life is significant.
ANNORAX: It seemed so easy the first time. In the blink of an eye, I had changed history itself. Allowed my people to thrive again. But when I changed history a second time, I lost more than you can imagine.
CHAKOTAY: The colony on Kyana Prime.
ANNORAX: How could you know that?
CHAKOTAY: I've been studying your previous incursions. No matter how close you get to restoring the timeline, one component is always missing. Kyana Prime. Who was on that colony? Who did you lose?
ANNORAX: My wife. And with her, my future. My children, grandchildren, all erased because of me. This is all I have left of her.
ANNORAX: So many years I worked through the night while she was sleeping. How could I have known I was calculating her fate? I can't stop until I've restored Kyana Prime, and forced Time to give me back my wife.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe it isn't possible.
ANNORAX: When I tell that Time has moods, a disposition to be intuited, I'm not speaking metaphorically.
CHAKOTAY: What do you mean?
ANNORAX: Anger is one of it's moods. Anger and the desire for retribution, vengeance. Time itself has tried to punish me for my arrogance. It has kept me from my wife, denied me my future.
OBRIST: Sir, we've achieved a fifty two percent restoration.
ANNORAX: Kyana Prime?
OBRIST: Negative, sir.
ANNORAX: Resume scanning the continuum.
OBRIST: Yes, sir.
ANNORAX: I've, er, I've studied your calculations, Chakotay. They're promising, but premature. We'll keep working on them. In the meantime, my mission must continue.
CHAKOTAY: You don't have the right.
ANNORAX: To fight for what is mine? That's not for you to decide. Only Time can pronounce judgment against me.

[Krenim Timeship - Chakotay's quarters]
PARIS: If that little display doesn't convince you I don't know what will. He's insane.
CHAKOTAY: No he's not, Wounded, maybe, even tortured, but I can still reach him, convince him to stop.
PARIS: Not from what you've told me. This guy thinks that Time has a personal grudge against him. That's called paranoia, Chakotay, with a hint of megalomania.
CHAKOTAY: You don't know what he's been through.
PARIS: He's lost his family. Okay, that's a terrible thing. But so has everyone else on this ship. And frankly, so have we.
CHAKOTAY: What kind of progress have you made?
PARIS: Obrist is coming around, and I think we can trust him. He says he'll give me access to their communications array. I can send a message to Voyager from the comfort of my own quarters.
CHAKOTAY: And the temporal core?
PARIS: That's going to be a little trickier. With Obrist's help, I'm pretty sure I can disable it, but not without setting off every alarm on the ship. We're only going to have one chance.
CHAKOTAY: It'll require precise timing. You and me working from within.
PARIS: And Captain Janeway attacking from Voyager. That is, if the captain's still alive.
CHAKOTAY: She's alive. Send the message. Transmit our coordinates.
PARIS: Done.
CHAKOTAY: And, give Kathryn my best. Day
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51682.2. I've forged a coalition with the Nihydron and the Mawasi. Together, we're preparing to attack the weapon ship.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I've analyzed every carrier frequency of their transmission. It contains a classified Starfleet ID code. It could only have come from Tom Paris. It's real. The coordinates he sent should lead us directly to the weapon ship.
TUVOK: Location?
JANEWAY: Approximately fifty light years from here. Our new allies are assembling reinforcements. Once we're in range, Tom says he'll try to take the weapon ship's temporal core offline. When that happens they'll be vulnerable to conventional weapons. Tom will then transmit the exact location of the core. Our job will be to disable the ship and get our people out. Is everyone clear?
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, Harry, I want you to beam over to the Nihydron vessel. Work with their engineers. The entire fleet needs to be equipped with temporal shielding.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, Neelix, Seven. You'll be working on the Mawasi ship.
NEELIX: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Doctor, once the attack begins, your skills will no doubt be required. Join Tuvok's team.
EMH: What about yourself?
JANEWAY: I'll be piloting Voyager, coordinating the attack.
TORRES: Captain, there's barely enough of this ship left to get there, much less wage a war.
JANEWAY: There's fight in Voyager yet. It's still got temporal shields, six photon torpedoes. It'll hold together. Besides, you know the adage. Captain goes down with the ship, right? You have your orders. Dismissed. Tuvok, I can hear your objections already. I am not leaving.
TUVOK: Given Voyager's damaged state, the probability of your surviving an armed conflict is marginal.
JANEWAY: Oh, I know the odds. But I have to stay. Voyager's done too much for us.
TUVOK: Curious. I have never understood the human compulsion to emotionally bond with inanimate objects. This vessel has done nothing. It is an assemblage of bulkheads, conduits, tritanium. Nothing more.
JANEWAY: Oh, you're wrong. It's much more than that. This ship has been our home. It's kept us together. It's been part of our family. As illogical as this might sound, I feel as close to Voyager as I do to any other member of my crew. It's carried us, Tuvok. Even nurtured us. And right now it needs one of us.
TUVOK: I respect your decision. Live long and prosper, Captain.
JANEWAY: Same to you, old friend.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Voyager to Mawasi vessel.
TUVOK (voiceover): Go ahead, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm picking up the weapon ship dead ahead.
TUVOK (voiceover): Confirmed.
JANEWAY: Temporal shields status.
TUVOK (voiceover): All vessels are bringing them online.
JANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway to the fleet. Plot an intercept course to the weapon ship.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
OBRIST: Sir, six vessels are approaching our position.
ANNORAX: Identify.
OBRIST: Three Nihydron warships, two Mawasi cruisers, and Voyager.
ANNORAX: We're outside space-time, impervious to their weapons. Let them come.
CHAKOTAY: I know Captain Janeway. She wouldn't be attacking unless she knew she could do some damage.

[Krenim Timeship - Paris' quarters]
PARIS: Good work, Obrist.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: If she's given the other ships temporal shielding, they've undoubtedly informed their home worlds. They'll be able to protect their planets against your weapon.
ANNORAX: Bring the weapon to full power. Stand by for multiple incursions. We'll have to disable their temporal shields first. Make the necessary calculations.

[Bridge]
TUVOK (voiceover): All vessels report ready.
JANEWAY: Let's see if Tom has done his part. Janeway to the fleet. Attack pattern Omega. Engage.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
ANNORAX: Condition?
OBRIST: No damage. Temporal core is stable.
ANNORAX: Return fire.

[Bridge]
TUVOK (voiceover): Captain, two Nihydron vessels have been destroyed.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the fleet. Evasive pattern Delta. We're going to have to wait. Come on, Tom. Come on.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
ANNORAX: Target the other vessels. Obrist, I said target the vessels. You're deactivating the temporal core.
OBRIST: I'm sorry, sir. It's over.
ANNORAX: Get back to your stations. You will not disobey me. We're phasing back into normal space-time. Reconfigure to conventional weapons.

[Bridge]
TUVOK (voiceover): Captain, Chakotay and Paris were beamed aboard our vessel.
JANEWAY: Everything's going as planned. Tom sent me the coordinates of their temporal core before he left. I'm transmitting them to you now.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
OBRIST: Conventional weapons are online and fully charged, sir.
ANNORAX: Fire at will.
OBRIST: Sir, weapons are back to full capacity.
ANNORAX: Target Voyager. Put Janeway out of her misery.

[Bridge]
TUVOK (voiceover): All our ships have been disabled, Captain. Do you have weapons?
JANEWAY: Negative. Torpedo launchers are down. I'm setting a collision course. Janeway to the fleet. Take your temporal shields offline.
TUVOK (voiceover): Captain, we won't be protected.
JANEWAY: Exactly. If that ship is destroyed all of history might be restored. And this is one year I'd like to forget. Time's up.

[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
ANNORAX: The core is destabilizing. It's going to cause a temporal incursion within the ship.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 51252.3. The past couple of weeks have been uneventful but we've made excellent progress on the new Astrometrics lab.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: When can you bring it online?
SEVEN: We just did.
KIM: In fact, we're in the process of charting a new course home.
JANEWAY: Well, I'd say this is cause for celebration.
TUVOK: A vessel is approaching off the port bow, Captain.
JANEWAY: On screen.
KIM: They're hailing us.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
KRENIM COMMANDANT (screen): You've entered Krenim space. State your identity.
JANEWAY: Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager. We're just passing through, trying to get home.
KRENIM COMMANDANT (screen): This region is in dispute. I suggest you avoid our territory.
JANEWAY: Thanks for the warning.
KRENIM COMMANDANT (screen): Good journey.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, plot a course around Krenim space.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: So, what do you think? How about a ground-breaking ceremony for our new lab?
KIM: Sounds great.
JANEWAY: I think I'll replicate a bottle of Saint Emillion for the occasion. 2370. I hear that was a good year.

[Kyana Prime Colony]
ANNORAX'S WIFE: Good morning.
ANNORAX: Good morning.
ANNORAX'S WIFE: Join me for breakfast?
ANNORAX: In a little while. I still have a few more calculations.
ANNORAX'S WIFE: There are always a few more calculations. It's a beautiful day. Spend it with me.
ANNORAX: I suppose I can make the time.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51367.2 We've spent the last three days on the Mari homeworld. It's been a while since we've had the opportunity to make new friends and the crew seems to be making the most of our stay.

[Transporter room]
PARIS: Neelix.
NEELIX: Tom. Been doing a little shopping?
PARIS: It's a present for B'Elanna.
NEELIX: What is it?
PARIS: Well, it's sort of personal.
NEELIX: Of course. Say no more. I'm on my way for a little romantic rendezvous myself.
PARIS: Neelix, are you wearing cologne?
NEELIX: Talchok musk. Very enticing scent, don't you think?
PARIS: Well, it certainly is musky.
NEELIX: I'm going to see Talli again.
PARIS: Ooo, that was fast work. Where are you taking her?
NEELIX: Well, actually I haven't gotten that far yet. I'm going to visit her shop under the pretext of buying some produce for the ship, and then I thought I'd just sort of segue smoothly into some dinner and dancing.
PARIS: Sounds like a good strategy.
NEELIX: Do you really think so? I mean, you used to be quite the lady's man.
PARIS: Used to be?
NEELIX: I mean, of course, you're involved now, so you won't be availing yourself of all the beautiful, fascinating and very open-minded Mari women.
PARIS: Neelix, are you trying to depress me?
NEELIX: I just, I haven't been with anyone since Kes, and I'm feeling a little rusty. I could use some advice.
PARIS: The best advice I can give you is to just be yourself.
NEELIX: Right. Be myself.
PARIS: Actually, that's the second best piece of advice.
NEELIX: What's the first?
PARIS: Go a little easier on the musk.

[Market place]
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, Mister Guill, but that's my final offer.
GUILL: Actually, Captain, I sense you'd be willing to raise your price to three hundred renns. Lieutenant Torres needs this resonator coil to upgrade Voyager's communications systems.
TORRES: Telepaths.
JANEWAY: Wait a minute. I sense you'd be willing to settle for two fifty.
GUILL: You must have read my mind.
TORRES: Ow! Ow! Hey!
FRANE: I'm sorry.
GUILL: Are you hurt?
TORRES: No, no, I'm fine. I just wish people would look where they're going.
GUILL: It's been a pleasure doing business with you.
JANEWAY: I'll finish up here. Why don't you go get Neelix?
NEELIX: This is some of the loveliest fruit I've seen in a long time.
TALLI: Actually it's been one of our worst water plum seasons in years. I don't think you'll find them very sweet.
NEELIX: Oh, how wonderfully tart. They'll make excellent preserves.
TALLI: Neelix? Why do you want me to tug on your whiskers?
NEELIX: Excuse me?
TALLI: That is what you're thinking, isn't it? That you'd like me to tug on your whiskers?
NEELIX: Well, as a matter of fact
TALLI: I'd love to. Do you have time to wait until I close?
NEELIX: Yes, I think I can rearrange my schedule.

[Walkway]
NIMIRA: I guess you could say I'm becoming obsolete.
TUVOK: In what sense?
NIMIRA: There's virtually no crime left in our society. It took many years, but just walk through our streets, look around. Violence no longer exists.
TUVOK: Impressive.
NIMIRA: I'm one of the last officers still working for the Constabulary.
TUVOK: And no doubt one of the best. I'm curious to know more about your crime prevention methods.
NIMIRA: Under one condition: I want to see Voyager. Learn about your methods.

[Market place]
TUVOK: I am about to perform my daily security rounds. Join me. They are routine but informative.
NIMIRA: Wonderful
TUVOK: The transport site is this way.
NIMIRA (voiceover): You prefer speaking aloud. Why is that?
TUVOK (voiceover): I've grown accustomed to it over the years. There are very few telepaths in Starfleet.
NIMIRA: Whatever you prefer.
TORRES: Neelix? Ready to leave?
NEELIX: Ah, no, ah, you go ahead. We haven't finished examining the produce.
MAN (voiceover): Help! Somebody help me please! Stop him! Help me!
FRANE: This will teach you to watch where you're going, you idiot! You idiot!
TORRES: Somebody get a doctor!
JANEWAY: Why? Why were you beating that man?
FRANE: I don't know.

[Corridor]
NIMIRA: Your brig, it's a puzzling concept. Shutting someone away as punishment. Do you find that it rehabilitates the prisoner?
TUVOK: The brig is primarily used as a means of ensuring the safety of others.
NIMIRA: In what sense?
TUVOK: For example, if we find ourselves with a hostile alien in our custody, we may need to confine the individual until we can locate the proper authorities.
NIMIRA: I see.
TUVOK: And on rare occasions we have been forced to incarcerate a crew member who has committed a serious infraction.
NIMIRA: I'm surprised that one of your people could be capable of doing something serious enough to warrant imprisonment.
TUVOK: It's extremely rare. In any case, the brig has been occupied for less than one percent of our journey.
NIMIRA: Forgive me, Tuvok, but it seems barbaric.
TUVOK (voiceover): If all species were as enlightened as yours and mine, there would be no need for prisons.
KIM (voiceover): Bridge to Commander Tuvok.
TUVOK: Go ahead, Ensign.
KIM (voiceover): Chief Examiner

[Bridge]
KIM: Nimira's been recalled to the surface. There's been some sort of attack

[Corridor]
KIM (voiceover): In the marketplace.

[Market place]
TALLI: I've never seen so much blood before.
NEELIX: It's all right.
TALLI: I heard about someone getting beaten once when I was a little girl.
NEELIX: It's all over now.
TALLI: I had nightmares for weeks.
NEELIX: It's okay. It's all right.
JANEWAY: He was confused. He said he didn't realize what he'd done.
TORRES: I don't understand why nobody tried to help him.
NIMIRA: People were shocked. Violence is almost unheard of here. But when it does occur, we like to investigate thoroughly.
JANEWAY: Can we help?
NIMIRA: Yes. I would like you, Mister Neelix and Lieutenant Torres to answer some questions.
JANEWAY: You have our complete cooperation.
TUVOK: Chief Examiner, are you suspicious of my colleagues for some reason?
NIMIRA: No, Lieutenant. I'm simply conducting an investigation. Please, follow me.

[Chief Examiner's office]
NIMIRA: Please, have a seat.
NIMIRA: I will be monitoring your thoughts telepathically during the interview. This transcription device will log your engrammatic activity so I can review your statement later.
JANEWAY: Let me get this straight. Not only are you going to read my mind, you're going to record my thoughts.
NIMIRA: Yes.
JANEWAY: I guess it'd be pretty tough to keep a secret from you, hmm?
NIMIRA: How long had you been in the market place when the attack occurred?
JANEWAY: An hour, maybe a little longer.
NIMIRA: And exactly where were you standing?
NEELIX: Directly across the square.
NIMIRA: From where you were, did you have a clear view of the attack?
NEELIX: Not at first. We just heard yelling, then as we got closer we saw what was happening.
NIMIRA: What exactly brought you to the market in the first place?
TORRES: Captain Janeway and I had an appointment with Mister Guill.
NIMIRA: For what purpose?
TORRES: We'd met him the day before. He's said he could get a spare resonator coil for us.
NIMIRA: I see. And the two men involved in the altercation. Had you seen either of them before?
JANEWAY: I'd never seen the victim, but the attacker. I think he was the same man who bumped into B'Elanna.
NIMIRA: Bumped into her? Are you certain?
JANEWAY: Yes. They collided accidentally.
NIMIRA: When exactly did this happen?
TORRES: Just as we'd settled on a price.
JANEWAY: He seemed to be in quite a hurry.
NIMIRA: Do you recall what you were thinking at the time?
TORRES: What I was thinking? What does it matter?
NIMIRA: Please, try to remember. It may be important.
JANEWAY: I didn't think about it much, and no one was hurt. And I was busy trying to sort out the coins. I'm not used to handling currency.
NEELIX: What was I thinking? I was thinking how I can make a delicious pie with those water plums.
NIMIRA: Are you sure that's all, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: Yes, of course. What else would I be thinking about?
TORRES: I suppose I was a little annoyed.
NIMIRA: Can you be more specific?
TORRES: All right. I guess I was thinking, my foot hurt. I mean, the idiot stepped right on it.
NIMIRA: Did you call him an idiot?
TORRES: Of course not.
NIMIRA: But you thought it?
TORRES: I guess so.
NIMIRA: Did you also think about retaliating?
TORRES: It was an accident.
NIMIRA: But you said he hurt you. It didn't occur to you to hurt him back?
TORRES: I'd never do that.
NIMIRA: But you thought about it.
TORRES: How am I supposed to remember?
NIMIRA: Yes or no. Did you think about hurting him? Yes or no?
TORRES: Well, maybe for a split second.
TORRES: I mean, he should have been watching where he was going. But I realized that he didn't do it on purpose, so I shook it off and I left. Why? What does it matter what I was thinking?
NIMIRA: Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres, you are under arrest.
TORRES: On what charge?
NIMIRA: Aggravated violent thought resulting in grave bodily harm.
JANEWAY: Are you saying it's a crime to think about violence?
NIMIRA: Yes.
TORRES: That's ridiculous.
NIMIRA: I assure you, it's quite necessary. We were once a society plagued by violence. When we prohibited hostile thought, crime began to drop immediately. Over the past three generations, it's all but disappeared.
TORRES: So you believe that it's all right to tell people what they can and cannot think?
NIMIRA: It's an irrefutable fact that violent thoughts from others can lead to violent actions.
JANEWAY: Even if B'Elanna had a violent thought, it was Frane who attacked that man.
NIMIRA: Which he only did because he telepathically received that thought from B'Elanna. His mind was contaminated by the image and it resulted in a loss of control. He may have committed the physical act, but it was instigated by you.
TORRES: Where we come from, people are responsible for their own actions.
NIMIRA: And here, people are responsible for their own thoughts. I'm sure you can understand how that's necessary for a race of telepaths.
JANEWAY: Yes, I can.
TORRES: Captain.
JANEWAY: I'll accept that your people can be influenced by the thoughts of others, but there were dozens of people in that square. How can you be certain it came from B'Elanna?
NIMIRA: The Mari no longer have violent thoughts. It's unlikely any of them could have been responsible. Besides, the evidence against B'Elanna is clear. She thought about committing a hostile act.
JANEWAY: I'd like to review that evidence myself, if you don't mind.
NIMIRA: Certainly. But I'm afraid you'll be disappointed.
JANEWAY: What happens to B'Elanna now?
NIMIRA: We have an enlightened penal system here. Unlike some, we don't lock people away to punish them. You'll be released. Once you've undergone the engrammatic purge.
TORRES: The what?
NIMIRA: It's a medical procedure that will identify and remove the offending images from your mind.
TORRES: Captain!
NIMIRA: Once identified, the images can be removed from Frane's mind as well.
JANEWAY: Memory extraction. That's a dangerous procedure.
NIMIRA: There is a risk of neurological damage, but it's necessary for us to treat Frane.
JANEWAY: Will you at least delay the procedure until I've had the time to review the evidence? Will you?
NIMIRA: It'll take us about a day to reconfigure our instruments. That's all the time I can give you.
JANEWAY: That's all the time I'll need.

[Transporter room]
PARIS: Captain, we've got to get B'Elanna out of there.
JANEWAY: You know the rules, Tom. We can't pick and choose which laws we'll respect and which we won't.

[Corridor]
PARIS: Nobody can be expected to control their thoughts.
JANEWAY: Tell that to the Mari.
PARIS: Are you just going to let them put her through this process?
JANEWAY: I'm doing everything I can to stop it. Neelix is going to file a diplomatic protest, and Tuvok and I will be going over the witness statements. Maybe we can poke a few holes in the Chief Examiner's case.
PARIS: And if you can't?
JANEWAY: Then let's hope the Doctor can figure out how to reverse an engrammatic purge.

[Bridge]
KIM: All away personnel have been told to return to the ship as soon as possible.
CHAKOTAY: So much for R and R.
PARIS: Chakotay, we've got to talk.
CHAKOTAY: Have a seat.
PARIS: Here?
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure the captain wouldn't object. What's on your mind?
PARIS: While Tuvok and the captain are reviewing the evidence, B'Elanna's sitting in a Mari jail cell waiting for some sort of lobotomy. We can't let that happen.
CHAKOTAY: What did you have in mind?
PARIS: Break her out.
CHAKOTAY: And risk an all-out confrontation with the Mari?
PARIS: They're a bunch of pacifists. They're no match for us.
CHAKOTAY: You're probably right. But before we start resorting to extreme measures, don't you think we should give the captain a chance to find a legal solution?
PARIS: By the time that happens, it may be too late.
CHAKOTAY: I'll tell you what. Why don't you come up with a rescue plan, one that minimizes the possibility of violence, and I'll review it.
PARIS: You're just trying to keep me busy, aren't you?
CHAKOTAY: Can you blame me?
PARIS: I'm serious about this, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: So am I. If your plan is sound and the captain doesn't have any luck on her end, I'll recommend we attempt the rescue.
PARIS: Thanks. I'll get right on it.
CHAKOTAY: Tom. I may have let you sit in the captain's chair, but remember, she's still the boss.

[Ready room]
TUVOK: Then you don't accept the Chief Examiner's conclusion?
JANEWAY: I'm not dismissing it. But I'm not going to accept it blindly either.
TUVOK: I have spent a great deal of time with Nimira over the last few days. She clearly is a very skilled investigator.
JANEWAY: I'm sure she is.
TUVOK: And this isn't the first time Lieutenant Torres' violent proclivities have created problems.
JANEWAY: No argument there. But I have a hard time buying that one fleeting thought makes her responsible for a vicious attack.
TUVOK: From what I've learned, crime here is a result of exposure to violent thought, much as it was on Vulcan before my people learned to control their emotions. In my opinion, the Mari should be applauded for their efforts.
JANEWAY: Well, I'm sure their intentions are admirable, but I'm not about to let them scramble B'Elanna's brain without a fight.
TUVOK: But we must prepare ourselves for the probability that she will turn out to be culpable for the crime.
JANEWAY: Maybe so. And then again, maybe not. Take a look at this. I don't mean to accuse your friend Nimira of being less than thorough, Tuvok, but don't you find that just the least bit curious?

[Briefing room]
NIMIRA: New evidence.
TUVOK: It concerns the attacker, Mister Frane. According to your own security records, he was arrested on four previous occasions for harboring violent thoughts. You classified him as an habitual perpetrator of hostile images.
NIMIRA: True. But those thoughts were purged each time. He spent years in neurogenic restructuring. The records also say he was cured.
TUVOK: Still, it is possible that Frane had a relapse. That he alone is responsible for his actions in the marketplace.
NIMIRA: Possible, but unlikely. Our engrammatic scans of Frane show that Lieutenant Torres' thought was prevalent in his mind during the attack.
TUVOK: And you are certain no other violent thoughts were present?
NIMIRA: I'm beginning to feel like I'm the one being investigated.
TUVOK: I am simply exploring all logical options. As a fellow law enforcement officer, you should understand that.
NIMIRA: I do. And I'm willing to share my findings with you. But if you're trying to prove your crewmate's innocence, you're too late. The case is closed. Do you think that this is easy for me? I don't want to harm B'Elanna, but I don't have a choice. That thought has to be contained, otherwise we risk further violence, maybe even a city wide panic. You told me your people spent centuries learning how to control their violent impulses. I know we haven't achieved your level of discipline, but we're trying. I thought you'd understand.
TUVOK: I am not judging your culture. In fact, I admire it. I have enjoyed your company in particular. But I cannot abandon my responsibility to B'Elanna. I must continue my own investigation.
NIMIRA: Go right ahead. But I intend to proceed with the engrammatic purge.

[Market place]
NEELIX: Telepathy. I don't like it, never have. It's bad for negotiations, it's bad for relationships, and it's certainly been bad for B'Elanna.
SEVEN: The fault was her own.
NEELIX: What are you talking about?
SEVEN: She was careless with her thoughts. The result was violence.
NEELIX: B'Elanna's not used to being around telepaths. That doesn't make her guilty.
SEVEN: Then her crime was ignorance. A common affliction among your crew.
NEELIX: What's that supposed to mean?
SEVEN: You make contact with alien species without sufficient understanding of their nature. As a result, Voyager's directive to seek out new civilizations often ends in conflict.
NEELIX: What you call ignorance, we call exploration. And sometimes it means taking a few risks. But it's certainly better than assimilating everything in your path.
SEVEN: Your goal is to share knowledge. Assimilation is the perfect means of attaining that goal.
NEELIX: Perfect.
TALLI: Good morning, Miss Tembit. Your usual selection?
TEMBIT: Yes, please.
TALLI: Okay.
TALLI: Oh, I'm so sorry.
TEMBIT: Idiot! Watch what you're doing!
NEELIX: She's dead.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: I can't believe she'd dead.
TUVOK: I know this is difficult for you, Mister Neelix, but try to recount for me everything that happened.
NEELIX: Seven and I were packing to return to the ship. We heard a scream. I went running. The old lady was just standing over Talli's body holding the bloody knife in her hand. I didn't even get a chance to say goodbye.
TUVOK: Did the old woman say anything?
NEELIX: Not that I remember. She was as shocked and confused as anyone else. Do you think this is somehow connected with the other attack?
TUVOK: I am not certain. But it strikes me as more than coincidence that two violent altercations have occurred within two days in a city which purports to have eliminated virtually all crime.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Bridge to Commander Tuvok.
TUVOK: Tuvok here.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Chief Examiner Nimira wants to see you. She's requesting permission to transport aboard.
TUVOK: Permission granted. Have her escorted to the briefing room. Tuvok out. We will continue later.
NEELIX: Commander. She was a wonderful young woman. Whoever's responsible for her death, find them and see that they're brought to justice.
TUVOK: I will do my best, Mister Neelix.

[Briefing room]
NIMIRA: Thanks for seeing me.
TUVOK: I heard what happened. Do you have any idea what caused this latest attack?
NIMIRA: I just finished interviewing the old woman.
TUVOK: And?
NIMIRA: She attacked the victim in response to the same violent thought that motivated the previous beating.
TUVOK: B'Elanna's thought? But both she and Frane are in custody. How could the thought have been passed to anyone else?
NIMIRA: I don't know. That's why I'm here. I need your help.
TUVOK: Then you shall have it.
NIMIRA: Thank you. I don't know why that thought is still contaminating people, but I have got to put a stop to it. I've never dealt with a murder before, but you've had experience with homicide investigations.
TUVOK: I have.
NIMIRA: I thought I would start by tracing the old woman's whereabouts for the past few days to see where she might have encountered the thought.
TUVOK: A wise choice. In the meantime, I would like to interview B'Elanna more extensively. Perhaps a fresh perspective might uncover facts you hadn't considered.
NIMIRA: I'll arrange it immediately.

[Chief Examiner's office]
TORRES: I'm not sure I like the idea of a mind meld any better than an engrammatic purge.
TUVOK: It will be a limited meld. I will focus exclusively on your memories of the events surrounding the crime. It poses no danger. Are you ready? Your mind to my mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts. Recall your encounter with Mister Frane. He bumped into you. What happened next?
TORRES: I guess that's when I had the thought about hitting him.
TUVOK: And after that?
TORRES: Guill came over and asked if I was hurt.
TUVOK: And what were you thinking at that moment?
TORRES: Why?
TUVOK: I'm sensing something more to the encounter than what you've told me. Try to recall. It may be important.
TORRES: Well, he was just holding me by the shoulders.
TUVOK: You said he'd been reading your mind during the negotiation. Was he still doing it?
TORRES: I don't know.
TUVOK: You experienced negative feelings about him.
TORRES: He gave me the creeps.
TUVOK: In what sense?
TORRES: He wanted something. Something terrible.
TORRES: What the hell? Why didn't I remember that before?
TUVOK: You may be recalling an unconscious thought you had at the time, or an intuition. Perhaps I should ask Mister Guill.

[Covered walkway]
TUVOK: Mister Guill. I'm Commander Tuvok, Voyager's Chief of Security.
GUILL: My children get upset when I'm late for supper. If you're here to do business we can make an appointment for tomorrow.
TUVOK: I'm here to talk to you about the attack.
GUILL: Why me?
TUVOK: My crewmate, Lieutenant Torres, has been charged with the crime. I believe you're acquainted with her.
GUILL: Lieutenant Torres, yes. She was arrested?
TUVOK: The Chief Examiner believes it was her violent thought which prompted the beating.
GUILL: Ah. She seemed like such a pleasant young woman.
TUVOK: Apparently she was almost knocked over while doing business with you. Do you recall that?
GUILL: Yes. A man accidentally ran into her. You're not like the others from your ship, are you? You're a telepath.
TUVOK: That is correct.
GUILL: Why are you so curious about what happened?
TUVOK: I am conducting my own investigation of the crime.
GUILL: I see. For a moment I thought you had another reason for asking. You struggle with violent thoughts as well. Terrible images, but they're hidden deep within your mind.
TUVOK: I am in control of those images. All members of the Vulcan race learn to inhibit emotions. If my unconscious thoughts are disturbing you, I will attempt to suppress them further.
GUILL: No, please, don't trouble yourself. I can't see them clearly enough to be affected.
TUVOK: I sense that you are fascinated with my unconscious thoughts. That you would like to see more of them if you could.
GUILL: No. I was just thinking, maybe I could help you.
TUVOK: Help me?
GUILL: In learning how to deal with these dark impulses.
TUVOK: No, thank you. I have sufficient means of controlling them.
GUILL: I'm sure you do. Any other questions?
TUVOK: No.
GUILL: Then if you'll excuse me, I really can't be late for the table.
GUILL: Do you have the money?
MALIN: Three thousand renns.
GUILL: I have something exciting for you tonight.
GUILL: Why are you following us?
TUVOK: I was thinking abut what you said. Your interest in my unconscious thoughts. Perhaps we could help each other.
GUILL: How would we do that?
TUVOK: By telepathically exchanging violent images. That is what you want, isn't it? To see what's buried in my unconscious.
MALIN: Who is he?
GUILL: Quiet. Why should I trust you?
TUVOK: Because you know we are very much alike. Perhaps I was mistaken.
GUILL: Wait. Maybe we can be of use to each other, but you'll have to get rid of this.
GUILL: Come back later, Malin. If I'm right, I'll have thoughts to share that are darker than anything you could imagine.
GUILL: Well?
TUVOK: Fascinating.
GUILL: Now. Show me.
TUVOK: I'll need a few moments to recover.
GUILL: I'm surprised you're so easily tired. Your telepathic abilities are strong.
TUVOK: It is not often that I exercise those skills.
GUILL: There must be violent thoughts to be had from your shipmates, whether they want to share them or not. After all, they couldn't stop a telepath from probing their minds, could they?
TUVOK: Is that how you acquire your merchandise?
GUILL: Sometimes I buy, sometimes I find a person like you who's willing to share, and yes, when the opportunity presents itself, I take what I need.
TUVOK: Which is what you did to Lieutenant Torres.
GUILL: Frane took her thought, not me.
TUVOK: So you know Mister Frane?
GUILL: Only casually.
TUVOK: Well enough to be in business with him?
GUILL: Why do you ask?
TUVOK: I am interested in the thought he acquired from B'Elanna. Her violent tendencies have always fascinated me, yet I've never succeeded in probing her mind. If you could help me purchase that thought
GUILL: It's impossible. Frane's already had it purged.
TUVOK: Odd. I was certain you possessed it.
GUILL: Me?
TUVOK: Didn't you extract the thought from B'Elanna as well just after she collided with Frane?
GUILL: What?
TUVOK: I re-evaluated B'Elanna's memories of the incident. She remembers that you probed her mind.
GUILL: She remembers incorrectly.
TUVOK: Perhaps. Or perhaps you did extract that image, which would explain why that same thought is still in circulation. Why it prompted a murder this morning.
GUILL: Enough! It's time you gave me what you promised.
TUVOK: The only person you'll be sharing thoughts with tonight is the Chief Examiner.
MALIN: Where are you going?
TUVOK: Stand aside.
GUILL: Tuvok's taking me into custody.
MALIN: No!

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Still no sign of him.
JANEWAY: Try a multiphasic bioscan.
KIM: We're being hailed, Captain. It's Nimira.
JANEWAY: On screen. Chief Examiner, have you had any luck locating Tuvok?
NIMIRA (screen): I'm afraid not.
JANEWAY: I'd like to send a search party.
NIMIRA (screen): I can't allow that.
JANEWAY: Why not?
NIMIRA (screen): We can't risk further violations of our laws.
PARIS: That's ridiculous.
JANEWAY: Tom. I really don't think we pose a serious threat.
NIMIRA (screen): There's nothing more to discuss. Lieutenant Torres will be purged, then returned to you.
PARIS: Captain, you can't let them do that.
NIMIRA (screen): The decision's been made. I'm sorry.

[Chief Examiner's office]
TORRES: Let go of me.
NIMIRA: B'Elanna, please. Try to relax.
TORRES: Oh, you have got to be kidding.
NIMIRA: Sedate her.
TORRES: No. Wait.
NIMIRA: Proceed.

[Covered walkway]
TUVOK: You won't escape punishment for your crimes.
GUILL: Quiet.
TUVOK: You are responsible for a death.
GUILL: I never meant that to happen. The old woman begged me for that thought. I had to help her. Here.
TUVOK: You're justifying murder.
GUILL: Enough. Malin, hold him still. Now, show me.
GUILL: You're holding back. I haven't seen the best of it yet, have I?
TUVOK: No.
GUILL: Then show me.
TUVOK: If I show you, will you let me go?
GUILL: Yes.
TUVOK: Come in closer.
TUVOK: Don't be alarmed. This will allow you to see the deepest recesses of my mind. My mind to your mind. My thoughts to your thoughts.
GUILL: Yes. Good. This is the side of you I wanted to know.
GUILL: What's happening?
TUVOK: We are locked in a Vulcan mind meld. You don't understand the truth of violence. Its darkness, its power.
GUILL: Please, stop.

[Chief Examiner's office]
NIMIRA: Increase the electrochemical displacement, but be very careful with the synaptic potentials. One miscalculation and we could permanently damage her cerebral cortex.
MARI OFFICIAL (voiceover): Communications Center to Chief Examiner Nimira.
NIMIRA: Nimira.
MARI OFFICIAL (voiceover): Captain Janeway insists on speaking with you. She says it's extremely urgent.
NIMIRA: Relay her signal. What is it, Captain?
JANEWAY (voiceover): It's imperative that you discontinue Lieutenant Torres' engrammatic extraction immediately.

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: Commander Tuvok has found new evidence which proves her innocence.

[Briefing room]
NIMIRA: I hope this interruption is justified. Suspending an engrammatic purge once it's begun is highly irregular.
JANEWAY: Then let's not waste any more time. Commander.
TUVOK: I have discovered that Guill and Frane are responsible for the beating in the marketplace, and consequently for Talli's murder.
NIMIRA: Guill, the merchant?
TUVOK: That is correct.
NIMIRA: What possible involvement could he have? It was Frane who acted on the violent thought.
TUVOK: That is not in dispute. However, Lieutenant Torres' thought was not transferred accidentally.
NIMIRA: I don't understand.
TUVOK: When Guill first met Lieutenant Torres, he sensed strong, violent tendencies within her. A potential for mental imagery which interested him. In order to exploit that potential, he conspired with Frane to provoke B'Elanna. They wanted to trigger a violent thought so they could telepathically draw it from her mind.
NIMIRA: I can't believe that.
TUVOK: It is precisely what happened. Unfortunately, they underestimated the intensity of the thought. It was more powerful than anything either of them had ever experienced. As a result, Frane lost control and attacked the victim.
NIMIRA: Why would peaceful men like Guill and Frane want to subject themselves to such hostile images?
TUVOK: My investigation has uncovered a rather disturbing side of Mari society. A black market if you will, in which many of your citizens trade in illicit mental imagery. Guill is a very prominent figure in this underground. Or was, until I brought him into custody.
NIMIRA: Why would any of my people want to indulge in that kind of behavior?
JANEWAY: Apparently, outlawing violent thought hasn't made it go away. All you've done is force people to share it in back alleys.
TUVOK: It seems you have a somewhat more serious problem than the random thoughts of a single alien.
NIMIRA: Even if I believed you, I'm not sure anyone else would.
TUVOK: Then I suggest you interrogate Guill yourselves. His engrammatic record will undoubtedly confirm what I've told you.
NIMIRA: Where is he now?
TUVOK: We have him confined, in our brig.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Chief Examiner Nimira has taken custody of Mister Guill. Whether his arrest will lead to reforms in the Mari justice system is anyone's guess. In the meantime, the Doctor is treating Lieutenant Torres and Commander Tuvok.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Fortunately the Mari didn't get very far with the procedure. You can return to duty, Lieutenant, though perhaps with one or two fewer violent engrams in that fiery head of yours.
TORRES: It's all right, Doc. There are plenty more where those came from.
EMH: Duly warned.
TORRES: Thanks for getting me out of there.
TUVOK: I was merely pursuing the truth.
TORRES: So, if I was responsible for passing that thought you would have let them lobotomise me?

[Corridor]
TUVOK: It is incumbent upon us to respect the laws of the societies we visit.
TORRES: So, you still a fan of the Mari legal system?
TUVOK: My views have been somewhat modified.
TORRES: Then you're not going to lecture me about losing my temper?
TUVOK: If you must know, investigating this case has given me a new respect for your inner struggle.
TORRES: Really?
TUVOK: Burdened as you are by your primitive Klingon psyche, it is a wonder you are able to keep your violent thoughts under control as much as you do.
TORRES: Thanks. I think.
TUVOK: You're welcome. Of course, there are various Vulcan techniques which could help you increase your self-control.
TORRES: You don't say.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
SEVEN: I must speak with you.
JANEWAY: Of course. Have a seat.
SEVEN: I prefer to stand.
JANEWAY: I keep forgetting.
SEVEN: You once encouraged me to express my opinions if I had something relevant to say.
JANEWAY: Go right ahead.
SEVEN: You wish to return this vessel to the Alpha Quadrant, and yet you are following Starfleet protocol regarding first contact. The two objectives are incompatible.
JANEWAY: How so?
SEVEN: Your philosophy of exploration exposes Voyager to constant risk. If you maintain a direct course to Earth and avoid all extraneous contact with alien species, it will increase your chances of survival.
JANEWAY: Well, that would make a dull ride home.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: We seek out new races because we want to, not because we're following protocols. We have an insatiable curiosity about the universe.
SEVEN: Your Chief Engineer and Security Officer were nearly lost today. That is unacceptable.
JANEWAY: To you, maybe, but not to me or my crew. Our experience with the Mari gave us an insight into a culture we've never encountered.
SEVEN: But that is irrelevant.
JANEWAY: No. It's how we gain knowledge.
SEVEN: Then we are in disagreement.
JANEWAY: Good. I dread the day when everyone on this ship agrees with me. I thank you for your opinion but our mission is not going to change.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.

[Holodeck - Da Vinci's Workshop]
DA VINCI: Animali! Brutti animali. Animali!
WOMAN (voiceover): No, Leonardo, you are the animali.
MAN (voiceover): A bird who cannot fly.
DA VINCI: Better than a man who cannot think!
CHILDREN (voiceover): The pidgeon speaks. Cuckoo, cuckooo!
JANEWAY: Maestro!
DA VINCI: Stupido! Foolish Florentines! A bird is a mechanical instrument that works according to mathematical laws. An instrument that surely I can recreate. How did it fail?
JANEWAY: Maybe you underestimated the wingspan?
DA VINCI: Had not the river Arno taken us to its arms we would both have died.
JANEWAY: Jumping off the bridge was a wise precaution.
DA VINCI: Against death, yes. Against humiliation, no. The great bird will take flight and bring glory to its nest. So I have bragged for months. Instead, we almost drown with half of Florence watching. Bah! Finito! No more. Catarina, have you been to France?
JANEWAY: Not recently.
DA VINCI: The King of France is a great admirer of mine. The Divine Leonardo is all I hear when I walk through his streets. And what music do I find in the streets of Florence, eh? The cooing of pigeons and the babbling of fools. Catarina, we are leaving!
JANEWAY: You're giving up. Again. Your beautiful painting of the Adoration, the great bronze horse in Milan, the Battle of Anghiari. Unfinished, all of them. You were going to publish your notebooks. You never did. You have given up, abandoned your most important works. Why?
DA VINCI: There is a tavern just outside Paris, Catarina. A charming bistro where the wine is
DA VINCI: Terremoto!
JANEWAY: Janeway to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We're under attack, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way.
DA VINCI: Earthquakes and idiots. Florence be damned.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Who are they and why are they shooting at us?
CHAKOTAY: Unknown, Captain. They're not responding to hails.
JANEWAY: Damage?
TUVOK: None.
KIM: I'm reading a slight destabilization along the shield perimeter.
TUVOK: Attempting to compensate.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Er, Torres to the bridge.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
TORRES: We just lost the warp diagnostic assembly.
JANEWAY (voiceover): What do you mean, lost?
TORRES: It disappeared.

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm picking up demterialisations on decks four through twelve.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers.
PARIS: They're matching our course changes.
CHAKOTAY: It's definitely some kind of transporter beam.
JANEWAY: Fire at will.
TUVOK: I have the will, but not the means, Captain. Targeting control is down.
JANEWAY: Why?
KIM: Captain, the main computer processor is gone. We've lost weapons, navigation and propulsion.
CHAKOTAY: Backup systems are coming online.
JANEWAY: Full phasers, manual targeting. Keep firing until you hit something.
KIM: The other ships are retreating.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to all decks. Full damage reports.
PARIS: I feel like we've just been mugged.

[Briefing room]
TUVOK: They were employing a high-energy transporter beam designed to locate objects of technological value, and remove them.
CHAKOTAY: They removed a lot. Five tricorders, three phaser rifles, a couple of photon torpedo casings, two antimatter injectors, a month's supply of emergency rations.
PARIS: No great loss there.
EMH (screen): Excuse me. You're forgetting the most important thing of all. My mobile emitter. Without it I'm stuck in Sickbay. I can't go anywhere.
JANEWAY: We'll do the best we can, Doctor but our top priority is the main computer processor. B'Elanna, I want a defense against another transporter attack. Harry, do everything you can to track those ships.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.

[Astrometrics lab]
KIM: Seven. Hey.
SEVEN: If you're here to fraternize I do not have the time.
KIM: Actually, the captain wanted me to locate the ships that attacked us. I've pushed the long range sensors about as far as they'll go.
SEVEN: And now you believe the sensors can be extended by using the deep space imaging system.
KIM: Well, yes.
SEVEN: I've been working on that exact procedure for the past two hours.
KIM: Really? Let's have a look.
SEVEN: Do you doubt my ability to finish the task?
KIM: Look, I came here to work. I realized you'd already started the job so I offered to help, that's all. I offered to help.
SEVEN: An algorithmic feedback is interfering with the resolution. Decompile data banks fifty nine through seventeen and attempt to isolate it. Now. Or you should leave.
KIM: Okay. I'm a pretty easy-going person. I mean, it takes a lot to ruffle my feathers. But that's not true of everybody. You've got to learn how to phrase things a little more diplomatically.
KIM: Or not.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51386.4. With ship's systems at nearly half capacity, it's taken us ten days to track our stolen technology.

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm picking up Starfleet signatures from two of the continents.
CHAKOTAY: Can you find the main computer processor?
KIM: It's on the northern continent, in what looks like a city, but there's a lot of signal interference. I'll never be able to localize it from here.
TUVOK: Captain, I have identified nearly twenty seven kinds of alien ships in orbit of this planet. It appears to be an active center of commerce. We should be able to place an undercover away team on either continent without attracting attention.
JANEWAY: That's good enough for now. Tuvok, you and I are going after the processor. Tom, Neelix, I want you on the other continent. Find out what you can. At the very least, try to get our emergency rations back. Chakotay, you have the bridge.

[Market place]
JANEWAY: It never fails to impress me. No matter how vast the differences may be between cultures, people always have something that somebody else wants, and trade is born.
TUVOK: Or more to the point, theft.
JANEWAY: What have you got?
TUVOK: The materials in the construction of this city, and the technology in use appear to have originated from numerous sources.
JANEWAY: No doubt stolen.
TUVOK: The myriad signatures have resulted in high interference levels. I am unable to. A moment. I am picking up a Starfleet signature.
JANEWAY: The computer processor?
TUVOK: I don't believe so. The signal magnitude is too low. The signature is approaching.
DA VINCI: Catarina! Che meraviglia! Out of my way, out of my way! Scusi, scusi. Catarina. Catarina. Welcome. Welcome to America.
DA VINCI: Tell me, Catarina, what do you think of the New World?
JANEWAY: How did you get here?
DA VINCI: A question I have asked myself many times. One moment I was packing for my journey to France, the next I was in this land of marvels. Possibly, upon leaving my workshop I was accosted by Spanish sailors, rendered unconscious, delivered to a galleon in the port of Genoa, and carried like a sack of grain across the vast Atlantic. Curious ears.
JANEWAY: My traveling companion, Tuvok.
DA VINCI: Ah, what the old philosophers say is true. Monstrous and wonderful are the peoples of undiscovered lands. But tell me, Catarina, how did you come to the Americas?
JANEWAY: Oh, it's a long story. A Portuguese ship, some Turkish pirates, a couple of hurricanes. I'll tell you about it some other time.
DA VINCI: Excuse me. There is the man I have been looking for. He has an apparatus that I need for my next invention. My patron is a demanding taskmaster.
JANEWAY: Your patron?
DA VINCI: The prince of this city. Buon giorno, signore.
TUVOK: The Da Vinci character is interpreting this world through the limited capacity of his holodeck program.
JANEWAY: He sees everything in sixteenth century terms.
TUVOK: But what is he doing here?
JANEWAY: I was running the Da Vinci simulation when we were attacked. His program must have been active in the computer's memory when the processor was beamed off the ship.
TUVOK: And then downloaded into the Doctor's mobile emitter. But by whom?
JANEWAY: His patron, the Prince?
DA VINCI: Marvelous, no?
TUVOK: A plasma injector conduit, Starfleet issue.
DA VINCI: Call it what you will. With this machine I can make mercury flow in three directions at once. You must see my new workshop. The Prince has been very supportive. Andiamo!
JANEWAY: Let's go.

[Da Vinci's Workshop]
DA VINCI: So, Catarina, what do you think of this place? My workshop in Florence was but a cave of ignorance in comparison.
JANEWAY: Your new patron gave you all this?
DA VINCI: He is the perfect prince. Intelligent, but not overly so. In awe of my talent, but not threatened by it. And above all, and most importantly, his purse is inexhaustible.
JANEWAY: And in return for all this support?
DA VINCI: I give him my ideas. I have even resurrected my Great Bird, like the Phoenix of legend. They have materials here, Catarina, that are so strong and so light that surely my prototype will ascend to the heavens.
DA VINCI: Be careful! They have found a way to harness the energy of a thunderstorm and to expel it with great force. A pistole that shoots not a lead ball but a bolt of lightning.
JANEWAY: I'd like to meet this patron you yours.
DA VINCI: And so you shall, this very evening, but I caution you. He is as ruthless as a Borgia. First Officer's log, stardate 51392.7. Though we've yet to hear from the Captain and Tuvok, Paris and Neelix have returned from their mission to the southern continent with some disturbing evidence.

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: Who sold you these things?
ALIEN VISITOR: I didn't come here to be interrogated. You told me you have a warp coil to trade.
PARIS: I said you could talk with Commander Chakotay. I didn't say he'd necessarily do business with you.
ALIEN VISITOR: Well, this is a waste of my time.
CHAKOTAY: I agree. There's the door.
ALIEN VISITOR: What?
CHAKOTAY: Goodbye. Make sure he doesn't get lost on the way out.
ALIEN VISITOR: No, no, no. Wait, wait. His name is Tau. He controls the seventh province in the north.
CHAKOTAY: He sells weapons and technology.
ALIEN VISITOR: Yes.
CHAKOTAY: Which he confiscates from passing ships.
ALIEN VISITOR: Yes, using his translocator device. Which he also stole. It's made him a rich man.
CHAKOTAY: There are a few items I'd like to get back. Where can I find him?
ALIEN VISITOR: I deal with a go-between. I've answered enough of your questions. Let's talk about that warp coil. I'm looking for something that
CHAKOTAY: You can keep what you've got. We'll call it even.
ALIEN VISITOR: This was a waste of my time.
CHAKOTAY: Not really. These colors look good on you.

[Market place]
TAU: Torpedoes, plasma grenades, particle beam rifles. I can even get a ceremonial spear if you're interested.
ALIEN BUYER: I am not interested.
TAU: My point is, no matter what the weaponry, if you desire it, chances are I have it or I can get it.
ALIEN BUYER: Your prices are said to be unreasonable.
TAU: Unreasonable is such a strong term. But if I can't sell to you, I'll sell to one of the other colonies in your system. A violent sort, your neighbors, aren't they? I'd hate to make your life difficult by offering my weapons to them. But if you don't give me a choice
TUVOK: There can be no doubt our computer processor is not in the city.
JANEWAY: Well, that certainly makes things a little more difficult. Leonardo's new patron is quite the business man.
TUVOK: We may have no choice but to do business with him.
DA VINCI: Catarina! Here are some friends I want you to meet.
JANEWAY: Try to keep our hologram occupied.
TUVOK: But Captain
JANEWAY: Make small talk.
TUVOK: Vulcans do not make small talk.
JANEWAY: Improvise.
TUVOK: Thank you. That is very considerate.
DA VINCI: Catarina, wait a minute.
TUVOK: Mister da Vinci, how have you been?
DA VINCI: Benissimo. Now if you'll pardon me.
TUVOK: I wish to speak with you.
DA VINCI: What about?
TUVOK: About you. You are most intriguing.
DA VINCI: Ah, grazie. And you, signore Tuvok, are equally provocative. Where exactly are you from?
TUVOK: Scandinavia.
DA VINCI: So, what do the Scandinavians think of this New World?
TUVOK: It is fascinating, and you are obviously enjoying it.
DA VINCI: Beyond words. Yes. Italy is already a fading memory. The city is full of mechanical marvels, the countryside alive with creatures strange and wonderful.
TUVOK: I'm curious. How have you spent your time here?
DA VINCI: I work on my inventions and my art, and I accompany the Prince when he goes to visit his great fortresses. Well, this er, fascinating conversation has left me as dry as Vulcan.
TUVOK: Vulcan?
DA VINCI: An island off Sicily. Have you been there?
TUVOK: No.
DA VINCI: Pity.
TAU: We'll talk later.
JANEWAY: Good evening.
TAU: And to you. Enjoying yourself?
JANEWAY: Not yet.
TAU: No? How can I change that?
JANEWAY: By having exactly what I want and selling it to me at a low price.
TAU: The former's quite likely, but as for the latter, I don't sell inexpensive merchandise.
JANEWAY: I have a client who runs a colony about twenty parsecs from here. His computer is outmoded so I'm looking for a replacement.
TAU: A computer that could coordinate the systems of an entire colony. That's no small order, but I think I might have something that will interest you.
TAU: Hello, computer, and how are you today?
COMPUTER: All systems are functioning within normal parameters.
JANEWAY: Verbal interface. Impressive.
TAU: Computer, tell us your technical specifications.
COMPUTER: Simultaneous access to forty seven million data channels. Transluminal processing at five hundred seventy five trillion calculations per nanosecond.
TAU: Interested?
COMPUTER: Operational temperature margins from ten degrees Kelvin to one thousand seven hundred ninety degrees Kelvin.
TAU: I could sell it to you, but I could hardly let it go for anything less than a warship. Or we could find something else in your price range.

[Da Vinci's Workshop]
JANEWAY: We should be looking for a stronghold or storage facility. Any place Tau might keep the stolen technology.
TUVOK: There are several possibilities all within a ten kilometer radius of the city. I must admit, your Mister da Vinci is an astute observer of nature. These maps couldn't be improved upon by Voyager's topographical computer.
JANEWAY: He was a Renaissance man, Tuvok. Interpreted, reinterpreted, deconstructed, fantasized about all through history. Vasari thought he was an angel. Freud thought he had a problem with his mother. James T. Kirk claimed he met him, although the evidence is less than conclusive.
DA VINCI: Buongiorno, amici.
JANEWAY: Good morning, maestro. Did you sleep well?
DA VINCI: Too well, I'm afraid. My apologies, Catarina. The morning is half gone. Nevertheless, the images that come before the eyes upon awakening can be inspiring.
TUVOK: Indeed.
DA VINCI: Catarina, where did I leave my silver tipped pen? I could swear it was here on the
TUVOK: Captain, we should return to Voyager. With my tricorder readings and Leonardo's maps we can use the ship's sensors to triangulate the exact location of our processor.
JANEWAY: We'll work on two fronts. You go back to the ship. I'll stay on the surface and keep working with Leonardo. He has access to Tau and he knows the territory.
TUVOK: Inadvisable. Charming as your childhood hero may be, the program was not designed for use outside the holodeck.
JANEWAY: This is Leonardo da Vinci we're talking about. Simulation or not, he's one of the greatest creative minds in Earth's history.
TUVOK: The program reproduces the entire range of Da Vinci's behavior. His genius and his notorious unreliability.
JANEWAY: We have an opportunity here, and I want to take advantage of it.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager. One to beam up.
DA VINCI: Table. Where did he go?
JANEWAY: Back to the ship.
DA VINCI: The ship? You mean the Portuguese are still in the harbor?
JANEWAY: No, not exactly. But they're nearby.
DA VINCI: Ah. Mad sea dogs, the Portuguese.

[Sickbay]
EMH: So, what's new?
SEVEN: New?
EMH: What's been happening on the ship?
SEVEN: Nothing of consequence. The Captain and Tuvok are still searching for the processor.
EMH: What's the mood?
SEVEN: If you're referring to the crew morale, they seemed focused on their mission.
EMH: Hmm. I heard there was something of a fuss in the mess hall last night.
SEVEN: A trivial misunderstanding.
EMH: Oh? You seen in excellent health. Most of your implants are stable, but your optical interface is misaligned again. I told you to come in for maintenance once a week. Now, what happened in the mess hall?
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres and I were working on some Astrometric data. There was a disagreement.
EMH: I understand things got a little heated.
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres became emotional. She chose to display hostility rather than to counter my argument.
EMH: What did she say exactly?
SEVEN: It is irrelevant. Suffice it to say I was correct, she was not.
EMH: Details, Seven. I want specifics.
SEVEN: I see no reason to discuss these trivialities.
EMH: Without my mobile emitter I am a prisoner in here. I need to know what is going on beyond these walls, trivial or not.
SEVEN: Torres referred to me as an automaton. She also employed a series of profane Klingon insults. Shall I translate them for you?
EMH: By all means. I'd very much.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to Seven of Nine. Report to the Astrometrics lab.
EMH: You may go.
SEVEN: I'll be right there, Commander.
EMH: Come back whenever you feel like talking. I'll be right here. All by myself.

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: I am entering Leonardo's maps and my tricorder data into the imaging system.
SEVEN: I will create a search pattern for our missing processor.
TUVOK: Da Vinci has accurately rendered the topographical detail. However, his coordinate axs are pre-Cartesian. You will have to convert them.
SEVEN: Understood. It is puzzling that even a Vulcan would refer to a holographic character by name, as if it were alive. It seems somehow illogical. Localizing grid. Altitude twenty kilometers.
TUVOK: One of these storage facilities undoubtedly contains the processor. Increase sensor resolution to maximum and scan the area.
SEVEN: There. Our computer processor is inside this structure.
TUVOK: Unfortunately, the building is surrounded by a dispersion field. Transport will be impossible.
SEVEN: If the captain can get inside the facility and reach the processor itself, she may be able to assist us.
TUVOK: If she were to initiate a power surge in the processor, it might produce a signal strong enough for us to lock onto.
SEVEN: That is what I was referring to.
TUVOK: I will inform the captain.

[Da Vinci's Workshop]
JANEWAY: It's not too far across open country. Leonardo says he's been there and he can help me get inside.
TUVOK (voiceover): Understood.
JANEWAY: Stand by for my signal. If I can find the processor, be prepared to beam it back to Voyager.
TUVOK (voiceover): Aye, Captain. Tuvok out.
TAU: So it's captain. I see you and my hologram are old friends.
JANEWAY: My engineers have developed a defense against your transporter, so I suggest that you return what you took from us and let me go.
TAU: Or what? You're in no position to bargain. The only ones who will bargain will be your crew and it will cost them a great deal to get their captain back. I wonder what you're worth to them.
JANEWAY: He'll be fine. Let's move.
DA VINCI: I'm not going.
JANEWAY: You said you'd help me.
DA VINCI: I have already gone too far. He was threatening you, I had no alternative, but I must be here when he recovers his senses. I will try to explain. Maybe if I am lucky, he will not have me executed.
JANEWAY: We are leaving. Your time here is over.
DA VINCI: I will not leave this New World.
JANEWAY: Your new world is a prison. You are under his control.
DA VINCI: When are we not in prison? Hmm? When are our lives free from the influence of those who have more power than us? If this New World is a cage, then it is a cage of gold, of marvels, of opportunities. If this Prince is violent, violence can be tempered.
JANEWAY: You can't stay here forever, Leonardo. Europe is your home.
DA VINCI: Europe is despicable! Here I am free to do what I wish. Free from judgment, free to fail, but without a sense of shame, without, without the taunts of the ignorant.
JANEWAY: Leonardo, whether you want to admit it or not they do need you back home. In Florence, Milan, Avignon, they need your genius, they need your heart. And right now I need you, too. So come on.
DA VINCI: I will not go for Florence or Milan or Avignon. But for you, Catarina, for you I will go.

[Bridge]
KIM: I've lost the Captain's comm. badge signature.
CHAKOTAY: Scan for the holoemitter.
KIM: It's four point seven kilometers outside the city.
PARIS: So Leonardo's on the move. Is the captain with him?
CHAKOTAY: Her comm. badge may have malfunctioned.
PARIS: Or she may have been discovered.
KIM: Should I beam da Vinci back to the ship?
TUVOK: If the captain is with him and attempting to recover the processor, she may need his assistance.
CHAKOTAY: Keep a lock on the mobile emitter and stand by.
KIM: Aye, sir.

[Storage facility - outside]
JANEWAY: Where's the entrance?
DA VINCI: I can't recall.
JANEWAY: Why not?
DA VINCI: These fortresses, I've been to half a dozen of them. All are similar but each is different.
DA VINCI: Catarina, observe the construction, like the veins and arteries of a great animal. Now, this is the way to build, using nature as your guide.
JANEWAY: No more lessons. I need to get into this building and I need to get into it now.
DA VINCI: That is not the way an apprentice should address her master.
JANEWAY: Maestro, your Prince is going to come after us. The only escape is inside.
DA VINCI: Escape? We will be trapped inside.
JANEWAY: No. There is a wondrous invention inside this building. It's called a computer processor. We can use it to send a beacon to the Portuguese ship, and they'll come and rescue us.
DA VINCI: Computer. This invention, how does it work?
JANEWAY: Well, it's complicated, but trust me when I say it can send messages over great distances. All we have to do is find it and we will be rescued. But the question is, how do we get inside?
DA VINCI: Shadow and sunlight. Shadow and sunlight. The Prince, like any other thief, will fear theft above all else. So this stronghold will have but one entryway, on the side facing away from the sun.
JANEWAY: So the bright light will be in the eyes of anyone who might attack.
DA VINCI: Esato.

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm no longer reading the mobile emitter.
TUVOK: They've gone inside the structure.
KIM: Commander, they're being pursued. Over thirty armed guards are converging on the storage facility.
CHAKOTAY: All available power to the transporters. Let's try to get them out of there.

[Storage facility]
DA VINCI: Even Theseus could not negotiate this labyrinth.
JANEWAY: Not without a compass.
DA VINCI: Your compass is speaking to you.
JANEWAY: This way.
DA VINCI: A trove of invention.
JANEWAY: The Prince has done well for himself. Phasers, warp plasma injectors, a site-to-site transporter.
DA VINCI: Your computer?
JANEWAY: Yes. Computer, do you recognize my voice?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: Well, that's a start.
DA VINCI: Che bella! There's a mechanical woman inside.
JANEWAY: In a way, yes. Initiate a level four induction relay overload.
COMPUTER: That procedure is not recommended.
JANEWAY: Command override. Janeway pi one one zero.
COMPUTER: Authorisation confirmed. Initiating overload.
JANEWAY: That's it.
DA VINCI: And now?
JANEWAY: We wait for the Portuguese.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Commander. I'm detecting a power surge in the subspace frequency range.
CHAKOTAY: Could be the processor. Lock on. Increase power to the confinement beam. With any luck, we might be able to pull the captain out of there along with it.

[Storage facility]
JANEWAY: Step close, Leonardo. We're going for a ride.
DA VINCI: I don't understand.
JANEWAY: Trust me.
JANEWAY: The building is probably surrounded by now. There's only one way out. Maestro, come here.
DA VINCI: Catarina, what just happened to me? I was shot, yet I live. Such things are not possible.
JANEWAY: This is an invention from another land. It's called a site to site transporter. In the blink of an eye, it can move us out of this building and a few kilometers away from here.
DA VINCI: How?
JANEWAY: Come on.
DA VINCI: I must have an explanation.
JANEWAY: Leonardo, you've always said that it's a poor apprentice who can't surpass her master. There are things in this world that I understand, and you don't.
DA VINCI: Madonna mia.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The processor is on board.
CHAKOTAY: The captain?
TUVOK: Still on the planet.
KIM: Commander. Thirteen vessels are approaching Voyager from the surface.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, take us into a higher orbit. Bridge to Torres. I want that processor back online. We've still got a captain down there.
TORRES (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Hillside]
DA VINCI: I cannot believe it. I will not believe it. My mind cannot accept the evidence of my eyes. Is this sorcery? Are we in Purgatory?
JANEWAY: Neither. You said yourself this place was full of marvels.
DA VINCI: Marvels, yes, but this is magic. Enchantment, not science. And I refuse to believe in enchantment.
JANEWAY: I'll explain later. We've got to keep moving.
DA VINCI: No! I must understand. Catarina, to see objects disappear into thin air. To see lightning pass through my body. Are we spirits? Catarina, am I dead?
JANEWAY: Let me ask you something. If you were something other than a human being. If you were a different kind of animal. If you were a small bird, a sparrow. What would your world be like?
DA VINCI: I should make my home in a tree, in the branch of an elm. I should hunt insects for food, straw for my nest, and in the springtime I should sing for a companion.
JANEWAY: And you would know nothing of the politics of Florence, the cutting of marble or mathematics?
DA VINCI: Of course not.
JANEWAY: But why not?
DA VINCI: My mind would be too small.
JANEWAY: As a sparrow your mind would be too small? Even with the best of teachers?
DA VINCI: If Aristotle himself were to perch on my branch and lecture till he fell off from exhaustion, still the limits of my mind would prevent me from understanding.
JANEWAY: And as a man, can you accept that there may be certain realities beyond the limits of your comprehension?
DA VINCI: I could not accept that. And I would be a fool.
MEN (voiceover): Spread out.
JANEWAY: Come on.
DA VINCI: Catarina, this way. Up the hill. I know just the escape.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Torres to bridge. We're in business. We've got full navigation, full propulsion

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): And full transporters.
CHAKOTAY: Good work, B'Elanna.
KIM: Sensors show the captain and Da Vinci have left the structure. If we can dip into a lower orbit I should be able to lock onto the mobile emitter.
CHAKOTAY: Set the confinement beam wide and prepare to beam both of them back to the ship. How close do we have to be?
KIM: At least five hundred kilometers from the surface.
TUVOK: Those ships will try to block our descent.
CHAKOTAY: Ready for some fancy flying?
PARIS: You bet.

[Hillside]
DA VINCI: Momento, Catarina. Escape, signorina, is very near.
JANEWAY: I'm starting to wonder. Where are you, Chakotay?
DA VINCI: Help me to the summit.

[Bridge]
PARIS: We're at one thousand kilometers, nine fifty, nine hundred.
TUVOK: The ships are powering weapons.
CHAKOTAY: Go to Red alert.
TUVOK: Shields are holding.
PARIS: Eight hundred and fifty kilometers.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive maneuvers.

[Hillside]
DA VINCI: When Petrarch climbed Mount Verdoun, and saw all Europe below him, he knew he was witnessing the birth of a new age. He was witnessing the Renaissance. The rebirth of our world. So, Catarina, at this summit here, you and I will be reborn. Reborn, with wings.
JANEWAY: This could be a problem.
DA VINCI: Hurry. There's not much time.

[Bridge]
KIM: Sir, they seem to be on the edge of a precipice, but we're still too high for transport.

[Hillside]
JANEWAY: You've made some improvements.
DA VINCI: I took your advice after the last attempt, and increased the reach of the wings.
JANEWAY: And the angle of attack?
DA VINCI: Yes, yes, that too. Unfortunately, the river Arno is quite absent. This time, if we fail, only the stones will break our fall.
JANEWAY: The wing is stationary. That's good. This looks like duranium alloy. Should be light enough.
DA VINCI: Catarina, this time it will work.
JANEWAY: Let's find out.

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm reading weapons fire on the surface near the captain's position. We're running out of time, sir.
PARIS: Seven hundred kilometers.
CHAKOTAY: Hold on, Kathryn. Just a few more seconds.

[Hillside]
DA VINCI: Together, up.
JANEWAY: Andiamo.
DA VINCI: Catarina, we're flying!
JANEWAY: Like the birds!
DA VINCI: Like the birds!

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I have a fix on the captain. They are in mid-air, on what appears to be a crude gliding apparatus.
PARIS: Five hundred kilometers.
KIM: I'm locking on. Broad confinement beam.
CHAKOTAY: Energize.
KIM: Got them. I've beamed the whole contraption into Cargo Bay one.
CHAKOTAY: Get us out of here, Mister Paris.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51408.3. We're back on course to the Alpha Quadrant. With the ship's computer and the Doctor's emitter returned to proper places, I've set aside some time to check on the Maestro.

[Holodeck - Da Vinci's Workshop]
JANEWAY: Leonardo, where are you going?
DA VINCI: France. These Florentines do not deserve my genius. I have written to the King of France telling him of my adventures in the New World, and invited him to soar with me from the towers of his castle.
JANEWAY: Are you sure that's a good idea?
DA VINCI: Why not? We ourselves have tested the design.
JANEWAY: But the materials. You'll never find those metals in France.
DA VINCI: No? Then others will suffice. Machines that fly through the air. Lightning flung from one's hands. Mechanical women who live in boxes. These things I have seen. And these things I must recreate. And who knows, possibly improve upon.
JANEWAY: Leonardo, I think that little flight of ours went to your head.
DA VINCI: And my heart. My oldest memory, Catarina, is of a great bird perched on my bed, its feathers open towards me as if summoning me. You yourself have accused me of giving up, of failing to complete my projects.
JANEWAY: I was trying to encourage you.
DA VINCI: No, you we're right. All my life I have wanted to fly. Perhaps my failure to do so has caused my heart to remain in flight, leaping from one thing to another, never satisfied, never complete.
JANEWAY: And now that you've actually flown?
DA VINCI: Now who knows what I cannot accomplish.
JANEWAY: I'd like to find out. Give my regards to the king of France.
DA VINCI: Catarina, will you walk with me to my carriage?
JANEWAY: It would be my pleasure.

[Mess hall]
CREWWOMAN: Thank you.
NEELIX: Oh, you look like a man who could use more coffee.
KIM: Keep it coming. I'm working on my monthly ops report. So much has happened in the last few weeks on this ship, I'm going to be up all night.
NEELIX: This firenut blend should keep you eyes open.
KIM: Potent stuff! Thanks.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix.
NEELIX: Yes.
CHAKOTAY: I know you have your hands full this evening, but I could use your help.
NEELIX: At your service, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: We're approaching a class one nebula. Sensors are picking up traces of protomatter inside. I understand you've dealt with it before?
NEELIX: Absolutely. When I was making my living as a trader. Protomatter's one of the most sought-after commodities. It's the best energy source in the Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: We could use your expertise in collecting a sample. We're leaving at fourteen hundred hours. See you in the shuttlebay?
NEELIX: I'll be there, sir.

[Galley]
SEVEN: These nutritional supplements are unacceptable.
NEELIX: What's wrong?
SEVEN: They are pungent.
NEELIX: That's the whole idea. I've been adding Talaxian spices to broaden your palette.
SEVEN: My palette is sufficiently broad.
NEELIX: Why settle for sufficient? The Doctor tells me you have a full complement of taste buds. You've hardly begun to use them. Come by the mess hall Thursday night. It's the first day of Prixin. We'll have an impressive array of exotic cuisine.
SEVEN: Prixin?
NEELIX: The Talaxian celebration of family. We observe it every year on Voyager. Now that you're part of the family
SEVEN: What should I do to prepare?
NEELIX: Nothing. It's not a mission, Seven, it's a party.
WILDMAN (voiceover): Ensign Wildman to Neelix.
NEELIX: Neelix here.
WILDMAN (voiceover): I hate to bother you, but Naomi's having trouble getting to sleep again. Would you mind?
NEELIX: No bother at all. I'm on my way. If you'll excuse me, duty calls.
SEVEN: Naomi? I don't recall that designation on the crew manifest.
NEELIX: That's because she's not a member of the crew. Naomi was the first child born on Voyager. I'm her godfather, and the only one who can get her to sleep lately. Bon appétit.

[Wildman's quarters]
NEELIX: No monsters here.
NAOMI: Good. Check the replicator.
NEELIX: Nothing.
WILDMAN: Naomi, maybe Neelix should check your room so you can go to bed.
NAOMI: Okay. In there.
NEELIX: Nobody here.
NAOMI: There.
NEELIX: Ah, there's not a monster in sight.
NAOMI: Can you stay longer? I'm afraid to go to sleep.
WILDMAN: Honey, Neelix has to go to work.
NEELIX: It's all right. You know what I think about when I'm afraid to go to sleep?
NAOMI: No. What?
NEELIX: The Great Forest.
NAOMI: What's that?
NEELIX: It's a place my people believe we're all going to go to someday. It's a beautiful, beautiful forest filled with sunlight, and all the people who ever loved me are gathered there to watch over me as I sleep, to protect me.
NAOMI: Really?
NEELIX: When I think about that Forest and those people, I'm not afraid to sleep anymore.
NAOMI: Do you think those people watch over me too?
NEELIX: I know they do. Now, I'm going to be away for the next couple of days. So, if you're afraid to sleep I want you to think of that Great Forest.
NAOMI: All right.
NEELIX: Pleasant dreams.
NAOMI: Night, Neelix.

[Cargo Bay two]
NEELIX: Cylinder.
NEELIX: Oh! Sorry. I didn't realize you were home.
SEVEN: I was regenerating.
NEELIX: I see.
SEVEN: Do you require assistance?
NEELIX: No, no, no. I have a small containment cylinder stored here. I'll just be a minute. Cylinder? Little cylinder, where are you? Cylinder, you were here a month ago. Now I know that you didn't just roll out of the airlock all by yourself. Now where are you? Oh, I'm sorry. I'm talking to myself. It's my way of remembering things.
SEVEN: You are a peculiar creature, Neelix.
NEELIX: Thanks. I think. Ah! Here it is. Oh, this will be perfect for containing a small amount of protomatter. Last time I used this little wonder I nearly lost it to the Kazon.
SEVEN: The Kazon. Species three two nine.
NEELIX: You're familiar with them.
SEVEN: The Borg encountered a Kazon colony in the Gand Sector, grid six nine two zero.
NEELIX: Were they assimilated?
SEVEN: Their biological and technological distinctiveness was unremarkable. They were unworthy of assimilation.
NEELIX: I didn't realize the Borg were so discriminating.
SEVEN: Why assimilate a species that would detract from perfection?
NEELIX: Good point. Well, if you'll excuse me, I'm needed in the shuttlebay. Pleasant regenerating.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: One day a week, that's all I ask. How hard can it be?
NEELIX: Harder than you think.
PARIS: Neelix, it's pizza. Bread, tomatoes, cheese
NEELIX: The cheese alone would take days. Separating curds and whey from synthesized milk. It's a delicate process.
PARIS: So replicate the cheese.
NEELIX: Since it means so much to you, I'll see what I can do.
PARIS: Thanks. There's a concentration of protomatter directly ahead.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix?
NEELIX: Set the transporter for ten thousand amu's, not a particle more. The containment field is standing by.
PARIS: We're in range.
CHAKOTAY: Energizing.
CHAKOTAY: What happened?
PARIS: The transporter beam ignited the protomatter. Shields are weakening.
CHAKOTAY: Disengage transport.
PARIS: Shields are down.
NEELIX: I've got the sample, Commander, and it's stable.
CHAKOTAY: We're clear of the protomatter. How's Neelix?
PARIS: He's dead. No heart beat, no synaptic response, extensive cell damage to his brain.
CHAKOTAY: Try a cortical stimulator.
PARIS: It won't work. His neural pathways were disrupted by the protomatter.
CHAKOTAY: Set the stimulator for an autonomic bypass. At least we can get his vitals going.
PARIS: It's too late for that. The damage was too severe.
CHAKOTAY: We're running into more protomatter. I need your help.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51449.2. After receiving a distress call from Commander Chakotay, we've sent a beacon into the nebula and we're in the process of tracking down the away team.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, I'm detecting the shuttle.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
KIM: No response.
TUVOK: The shuttle's primary systems are offline. Lifesigns, only two.
JANEWAY: Are they within transporter range?
TUVOK: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: Beam them directly to Sickbay. Harry, put a tractor on the shuttlecraft. Tuvok. you've got the bridge.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I ran a complete postmortem analysis. There was nothing you could have done.
PARIS: I knew we were too close to the protomatter. I should have said something.
CHAKOTAY: Nobody could have predicted this, Tom.
EMH: How shall I proceed?
JANEWAY: The Talaxians mourn their dead for a full week, in a specific burial ceremony. And that's just what we're going to do.
CHAKOTAY: I'll inform the crew.
JANEWAY: I'll check Neelix's personal database, see what I can find out about the ceremony. We'll have it in the mess hall. Somehow that feels appropriate.
SEVEN: Neelix is dead?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid so.
SEVEN: His neural pathways, are they intact?
EMH: Yes, but there's no metabolic activity.
SEVEN: How long has he been dead?
JANEWAY: Seven, I understand
SEVEN: How long?
CHAKOTAY: It's been eighteen hours.
SEVEN: Then it's not too late to reactivate him.
PARIS: What are you saying? You can bring Neelix back to life?
SEVEN: That's precisely what I'm saying. The Borg have assimilated species with far greater medical knowledge than your own. We are capable of reactivating drones as much as seventy three hours after what you would call death.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix wasn't a Borg drone.
SEVEN: We will adapt.
EMH: What does this procedure involve?
SEVEN: Nanoprobes are used to reverse cellular necrosis, while the cerebral cortex is stimulated with a neuroelectric isopulse.
EMH: But there's nothing left to stimulate. His brain functions are gone.
SEVEN: By your narrow definition, perhaps, but not by mine. You will extract seventy micrograms of nanoprobes from my bloodstream. I will modify them to match his Talaxian physiology. His function in this crew is diverse. If you wish to salvage him we must proceed immediately.
PARIS: I say we let her try.
JANEWAY: Hold on a minute, Tom, please. No one's ever been resuscitated after being dead for eighteen hours. If this procedure does work, what are the chances that Neelix would come out of it unaffected?
EMH: She's right. The damage to his cerebral cortex was severe.
SEVEN: The nanoprobes will compensate for any cellular degradation. Captain, a decision has to be made quickly.
JANEWAY: Doctor, give Seven whatever assistance she needs. Proceed.
EMH: Captain
JANEWAY: Do it. If there's a chance we can revive Neelix, we're got to take it. Keep me informed.
SEVEN: The nanoprobes are ready. We should begin.
EMH: Hold on. I want to check his blood viscosity.
SEVEN: The cadaver has been sufficiently prepared.
EMH: And they say I have a lousy bedside manner.
SEVEN: Set neuroelectric isopulses for one second intervals.
EMH: Ready.
SEVEN: Now.
SEVEN: Neural activity at nine percent, ten percent, twelve percent.
EMH: This is incredible. His intracerebral blood pressure, his synaptic responses, they're all returning to normal.
SEVEN: The alveoli in his lung are regenerating. They should be functional
SEVEN: Now. Neural activity at fifty two percent and rising.
EMH: His neurotransmitter levels are rising too fast.
SEVEN: We must stabilize his motor neurones.
EMH: I'm going to try reducing his acetocholine levels. It might be enough to
NEELIX: Doctor.
EMH: Neelix.
NEELIX: What happened. What happened? Why am, why am I here?
NEELIX: Dead?
EMH: For eighteen hours, forty nine minutes, thirteen seconds. Congratulations, Mister Neelix. You've just set a new world record.
NEELIX: That's impossible. You mean I lost consciousness. I was, I was in a coma.
SEVEN: No. You were dead.
NEELIX: I'm stunned. I'm amazed. I'm grateful. Thank you, Doctor.
JANEWAY: Actually, you can thank Seven of Nine. The procedure was her idea.
NEELIX: Yours?
SEVEN: The Borg have assimilated the technique from species one four nine. I simply modified it. But you are welcome.
NEELIX: Am I good as new?
EMH: That remains to be seen. There's no way to tell if your body will successfully take over the functions the nanoprobes are serving.
NEELIX: Nanoprobes?
JANEWAY: It was necessary, to repair the necrotised tissue.
EMH: Until I'm certain the damaged tissue can function independently, you'll have to be injected with nanoprobes on a daily basis.
NEELIX: Well, as long as I don't start assimilating the crew or sprouting Borg implants, I'm sure I can live with it.
EMH: I'm releasing you to your quarters. Your body's been through quite a shock, so try to get some rest. Report to Sickbay tomorrow at oh eight hundred hours for your next injection.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: The shuttle mission, was it a success? Did we get the protomatter?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid not. The sample you collected destabilized before it got back to Voyager.
NEELIX: The containment field needs to be reinforced next time.
JANEWAY: If there is a next time. I've asked Chakotay to find out exactly what caused the accident, and unless we can take additional precautions I'm not sending another team into that nebula.
NEELIX: I could help with that investigation.
JANEWAY: No. You are taking some time off, and that's an order.
NEELIX: No, Captain, please. I don't need any special treatment.
JANEWAY: Neelix, you've just returned from the dead. Go easy on yourself.
NEELIX: Yes, I suppose you're right. Oh, but you can't ask me to cancel the first night of Prixin. The celebration is in three days.
JANEWAY: Oh, I almost forgot.
NEELIX: I've been aging fruit compote in moolt nectar for weeks now. I can't just let it go to waste.
JANEWAY: Only if you feel up to it. Could you not ferment those compotes so long this time, because last year I got a little light-headed.
NEELIX: I'll make the necessary adjustments.
JANEWAY: It's good to have you back.
NEELIX: It's good to be back, Captain.

[Neelix's quarters]
NEELIX: Alixia? Why weren't you there?

[Corridor]
SEVEN: Human attitudes toward death are perplexing.
TUVOK: How so?
SEVEN: Too much importance is placed on it. There seem to be countless rituals and cultural beliefs designed to alleviate their fear of a simple biological truth. All organisms eventually perish.
TUVOK: I take it the Borg have no fear of that biological truth.
SEVEN: None. When a drone is damaged beyond repair, it is discarded. But it's memories continue to exist in the Collective consciousness. To use a human term, the Borg are immortal.
TUVOK: You are no longer part of the Collective. You are mortal now like the rest of us. Does that disturb you?
SEVEN: My connection to the Borg has been severed, but the Collective still possesses my recollections, my experiences. In a sense, I will always exist.
TUVOK: Fascinating. That must be a great relief.
SEVEN: Yes, it is.

[Engineering]
PARIS: I've sealed the fractures in the shuttle nacelle. The rest of the repairs should be completed by morning.
CHAKOTAY: Good. How are you coming?
TORRES: I found a small phase variance in the transporter logs. I think it was responsible for igniting the protomatter. I've remodulated the transporter beam to compensate.
CHAKOTAY: Good work. I'll be in holodeck two. I've created a simulation of the shuttle accident, to see if there's anything we've overlooked.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Commander. Commander, I thought you might need some assistance on the holodeck.
CHAKOTAY: If you're feeling up to it.
NEELIX: Well, I'm up to anything at this point. I've been resting for two days straight and resting makes me feel, well, restless.

[Holodeck - Shuttlecraft interior]
CHAKOTAY: I've programmed the simulation to start when we found the protomatter. Why don't you monitor the containment field readings?
NEELIX: Gladly.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, display shuttle crew excluding myself and begin program.
HOLO-PARIS: There's a concentration of protomatter directly ahead.
HOLO-NEELIX: Set the transporter for ten thousand amu's, not a particle more. The containment field is standing by.
HOLO-PARIS: We're in range. The transporter beam ignited the protomatter.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, freeze program. Looks like there was a problem with the pattern buffer. It might have created a feedback loop along the transporter beam.
NEELIX: Sounds right.
CHAKOTAY: Let's keep an eye on it. See what happened at the moment of impact. Computer, resume program.
HOLO-PARIS: Shields are weakening. Shields are down.
HOLO-NEELIX: I've got the sample, Commander, and it's stable. Let's get out of here.
NEELIX: Computer, freeze program.
NEELIX: Nothing.
CHAKOTAY: What?
NEELIX: I died, and there was nothing. There was no one there. No Forest.
CHAKOTAY: Forest?
NEELIX: The Great Forest. The afterlife. I was taught that when I died my ancestors would be there, waiting for me by the Guiding Tree. My sisters, my mother and father, my cousings. Everyone who was killed in the war. I took great comfort in knowing that we'd all be together again one day. But it's not true.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we pulled you back before any of that could happen.
NEELIX: No. I was dead for eighteen hours. I should have experienced something, should remember something. It's just a story, a myth. There is no Guiding Tree. No gathering of the ancestors.
CHAKOTAY: You can't be certain of that. Don't throw away a lifetime of faith because of one anomalous incident. Death is still the greatest mystery there is.
NEELIX: I was there. I experienced it. There was nothing.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, delete characters.
NEELIX: That's what's going to happen to all of us. Like a hologram, we just disappear into nothing.

[Mess hall]
TUVOK: Attention, attention. If I may have everyone's attention.
PARIS: You might want to try the old glass and spoon approach.
TUVOK: Glass and spoon?
PARIS: Excuse me.
TUVOK: Thank you. Welcome to the first night of Prixin, the Talaxian observance of familial allegiance. This year, Mister Neelix has requested that I commence the celebration with the traditional salutation. We do not stand alone. We are in the arms of family. Father, mother, sister, brother. Father's father, father's mother, father's brother, mother's brother. Suffice to say, the list is extensive. We gather on this day to extol the warmth and joy of those unshakable bonds. Without them, we could not call ourselves complete. On this day, we are thankful to be together. We do not stand alone.
JANEWAY: Indeed we do not.
PARIS: A few days ago we almost lost a member of our family. I don't know about how the rest of you feel, but it scared the hell out of me. Neelix, you still don't know how to make a pizza, but I'm glad you're here.
JANEWAY: So am I. Here's to you, Neelix.
ALL: Speech, speech, speech!
NEELIX: Thank you, everyone. Well, er, enjoy. Computer, music.
CHAKOTAY: You all right?
NEELIX: Fine, Commander, fine. I apologize for the other day on the holodeck. I guess this whole back from the dead thing is hard to get used to. I'm fine now.
CHAKOTAY: If you ever want to talk, you know where to find me.
JANEWAY: Having fun?
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: That's probably because you've been standing here by yourself.
SEVEN: I don't understand the rules and procedures for this type of social occasion.
JANEWAY: The rules are simple. Choose a group of people. Listen to their conversation. Then, when you feel you have something to contribute, chime in.
SEVEN: Chime in?
JANEWAY: Say something. Join the discussion.
SEVEN: I will try, Captain.
EMH: The early stages of Ktarian development are astounding. Naomi has grown five centimeters since her last physical, and that was only three weeks ago.
WILDMAN: It seems like every time I turn around I'm recycling her clothes back into the replicator.
SEVEN: Children assimilated by the Borg are placed in maturation chambers for seventeen cycles.
WILDMAN: Interesting. Well, if you'll excuse me, I need to go talk to Neelix.
EMH: In these maturation chambers, the development of conversational skills is, I suppose, a low priority?

[Galley]
WILDMAN: Neelix.
WILDMAN: Oh, I'm sorry.
NEELIX: No, no, no, it's all right.
WILDMAN: We haven't seen you in a few days.
NEELIX: I've been a little preoccupied.
WILDMAN: I understand. Naomi's been asking about you.
NEELIX: Really?
WILDMAN: She misses you. Frankly, so do I. She's had trouble sleeping every night this week. Only Neelix can tuck me in. I want Neelix.
NEELIX: Sounds familiar.
WILDMAN: Maybe you could stop by later just to say hello.
NEELIX: Why don't, why don't I go now? It's close to Naomi's bedtime.
WILDMAN: Are you sure? Prixin's your favorite holiday.
NEELIX: Yes, but duty calls.

[Naomi's bedroom]
NEELIX: Attention all monsters. Get out of this room.
NAOMI: My bed.
NEELIX: Oh, there's no monsters here.
NEELIX: Ah, it's a monster!
NAOMI: Scared you!
NEELIX: You certainly did. Pleasant dreams, sweeting.
NAOMI: Can you stay longer? I want to hear about the Great Forest again.
NEELIX: The Great Forest?
NAOMI: The special place. The place you think about when you can't sleep.
NEELIX: Are you sure you want to hear about that? It's just a silly old story.
NAOMI: Please.
NEELIX: Well, it's a beautiful place filled with sunlight.
NAOMI: And all the people who ever loved me.
NEELIX: Yes. They've all gathered there to watch over you, to protect you while you sleep.
NAOMI: I had a dream about the Great Forest last night.
NEELIX: You did?
NAOMI: There was trees and grass and animals, and I saw you and Mommy and we were all happy.
NEELIX: Sounds like a nice dream.
NAOMI: It was beautiful.

[Mess hall]
SEVEN: The Doctor asked me to run a haemotological scan.
NEELIX: Why?
SEVEN: To regulate the dosage of nanoprobes for your next injection.
NEELIX: Go ahead. How much longer will I be needing these injections?
SEVEN: Till your damaged cells can function on their own.
NEELIX: I don't really like the idea of Borg technology swimming around inside me.
SEVEN: That is irrelevant. You need the nanoprobes to live.
NEELIX: Live? Oh, is that what I am doing right now? Living? I'm beginning to wonder.
SEVEN: By most definitions you are alive.
NEELIX: Well, part of me isn't alive.
SEVEN: Which part are you referring to?
NEELIX: I don't know, but something is missing. I don't feel like Neelix anymore. Maybe Neelix is gone? Maybe he died, and I'm all that's left.
SEVEN: Stop moving and allow me to complete the scan.
NEELIX: I didn't ask to be bought back!
SEVEN: You were dead at the time.
NEELIX: Well, what right did you have to violate me? You Borg think you can fix anything but you didn't fix me!
SEVEN: There was no alternative.
NEELIX: Get out. Just leave me alone! I said get out!
SEVEN: I would be negligent in my duties if I did that.
NEELIX: I don't care about your duties. I don't care
NEELIX: What's, what's happening to me?
SEVEN: Your cells are returning to a necrotic state. We must get you to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: His tissue began rejecting the nanoprobes, causing spontaneous necrosis throughout his body.
SEVEN: We modified the nanoprobes to compensate and it appears to be working. Neelix is stable, for now.
JANEWAY: How do we know this won't happen again?
EMH: We don't. I've designed a monitor for Neelix to wear that will alert us at the first sign of necrosis, and we'll continue with the daily injections. Beyond that, I'm afraid it's a matter of maintenance. He may have to live with this condition for the rest of his life. He wants to speak with you, Commander.
NEELIX: Commander, you said if I ever needed anything? You once told me your people have technology that can induce a deep meditation, an altered state of consciousness.
CHAKOTAY: The akoonah.
NEELIX: That this device allows you to look inside yourself, ask questions that you might otherwise be afraid to ask.
CHAKOTAY: That's right.
NEELIX: That's what I need. I need to look inside myself, figure out what's happening to me. I need answers. Will you help me, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: All right. But I want you to understand, the vision quest isn't a quick fix. It'll take time to interpret the images, and there's no guarantee you'll find what you're looking for.
NEELIX: I understand. What should I do to prepare?
CHAKOTAY: You'll need a medicine bundle. Items that define you. Things that will ground you, allow you to take the journey into yourself.
NEELIX: I'll get ready.

[Neelix's quarters]
NEELIX: This belonged to my sister, Alixia. She made it during her expedition to the dunes of Talmouth. A flower from Kes' garden. And last but not least, the Guiding Tree. It stands at the center of Talaxian afterlife, deep inside the Great Forest. It's there to help us find our way when we first arrive. At least, that's what I used to believe. Not a very impressive medicine bundle, is it?
CHAKOTAY: It'll do fine. Now place your hand on the akoonah.
NEELIX: Am I doing this right?
CHAKOTAY: Try to relax. Clear your mind of everything but the objects before you. Focus on them. Nothing else exists. A-koo-chee-moya. We are far from the sacred places of our grandfathers. We are far from the bones of our people. We come here seeking guidance. It's time, Neelix. Try to leave this room, this ship, and go to a place where you were the most peaceful and content you have ever been. That's where your journey will begin.

[Vision Quest - Mess hall]
PARIS: Neelix. Good to have you back.
NEELIX: it's good to be back, Lieutenant.
NEELIX: Alixia? Alixia, it's me, Neelix. Over here.
NEELIX: Captain! My sister, she was just standing here talking to you.
JANEWAY: The dead girl. Oh yes, very charming. I can see the family resemblance.
NEELIX: Alixia!
SEVEN: You will be assimilated.
NEELIX: No time for that now. Maybe later.
KIM: Potent stuff.

[Vision Quest - Great Forest]
NEELIX: The lights. It's beautiful.
ALIXIA: Yes. It's just like you always imagined it would be. The trees, the sunlight, and everyone who ever loved you.
NEELIX: When I died, I looked for you, but you weren't there. Why weren't you there?
ALIXIA: Because it's all a lie.
NEELIX: What do you mean?
ALIXIA: You've wasted your entire life believing lies. The Great Forest? The afterlife? It's all created out of your fear of death. None of it's real.
NEELIX: If that's true, what's the point of living?
ALIXIA: There isn't any. That's what you're finally starting to realize. I'm afraid to go to sleep. tell me about the Great Forest, Neelix. Tell me about the trees, and the grass, and all the people who loved you!
NEELIX: Why are you saying these things?
ALIXIA: Scared you!
NEELIX: You died on that shuttlecraft, Neelix. They never should have brought you back. It was a mistake, and you know it. Now accept it. You know what you have to do.
NEELIX: No.

[Vision Quest - Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: It's all a lie. They lied to you.

[Vision Quest - Naomi's bedroom]
NAOMI: You know what you have to do.

[Vision Quest - Mess hall]
TUVOK: We gather on this day to tell Neelix what he must do.
JANEWAY: You stand alone.
SEVEN: Life is irrelevant.
TORRES: Let go.
KIM: It's pointless.
CHAKOTAY: It's a lie.
EMH: You know what you have to do.
NEELIX: No!

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Neelix.
NEELIX: Oh, there you are. I didn't see you.
SEVEN: Are you looking for me?
NEELIX: Yes, as a matter of fact I am. I hope I'm not disturbing you.
SEVEN: You are not.
NEELIX: I, I want to apologize for my outburst the other day. In the mess hall?
SEVEN: No apology is necessary.
NEELIX: No, no, please. My behavior was uncalled for. I didn't mean the things I said. I wasn't myself. But I feel much better now. Commander Chakotay has helped me to understand a few things. I want you to know that I don't blame you for bringing me back. To life, I mean. In fact, what you did was very thoughtful.
SEVEN: I would have done the same for any member of this crew.
NEELIX: Yes, I'm sure you would have.
SEVEN: Is there something else?
NEELIX: No. Yes. Seven, I think you've made a wonderful addition to this crew. I know it's been difficult for you making the transition from Borg back to human. Or half human. Or whatever it is you've become. Actually, you're just plain Seven to me.
SEVEN: Your point, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: I guess I just want to say. You're surrounded by people who care about you, and whether you know it or not Voyager is going to be a very good home to you. It certainly was to me.
SEVEN: Was? Do you intend to leave?
NEELIX: Leave? No, I'll be around. Well, goodbye.
SEVEN: Goodbye.

[Mess hall]
CHAKOTAY: What happened to you this morning?
NEELIX: I'm sorry I had to cancel our little chat, but I was needed in the mess hall. I've been so busy the last few days, I've let things slip around here.
CHAKOTAY: You're not holding up your end of the bargain.
NEELIX: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: When you asked me to guide you on a vision quest, I agreed. But I also told you it was part of an ongoing process. We're supposed to be discussing your progress.

[Galley]
NEELIX: What's left to say? I've told you I saw my sister, the Great Forest. I feel a sense of peace I've never felt in my entire life. It worked.
CHAKOTAY: You've only lived with the visions for a couple of days. That's not enough time to draw any conclusions. You've got to reflect on the images, examine them. Allow them to stay alive in your mind. A vision quest isn't just a dream you dismiss after your first cup of coffee.
NEELIX: I understand.
CHAKOTAY: Good. I get off duty at fourteen hundred hours. Meet me in my quarters and we'll begin. That's an order.
NEELIX: Yes, sir.
NEELIX: Computer, lights off.

[Neelix's quarters]
NEELIX: And finally, Mister Tuvok. I'm grateful for the opportunity I had to win your respect. Your strength and your wisdom were an inspiration to me, and I can only hope that your memory of me will serve to inspire you in some way. It was an honor to spend my last years on Voyager, with this crew. I want to thank all of you for your kindness and your companionship. Goodbye. Computer, end log. Encode for delivery to Captain Janeway in one hour.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, someone's trying to initiate an unauthorized transport. It's Neelix.
JANEWAY: Where's he going?
KIM: Looks like he's trying to beam into the nebula.
JANEWAY: Stop him.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Neelix. Neelix, respond.

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Neelix, I order you to disengage transport.

[Bridge]
KIM: He's found a way to block the abort sequence. Transport's in progress.
JANEWAY: Override it. Get him back.

[Transporter room]
KIM (voiceover): Bridge to Chakotay. We've blocked his transporter signal.
NEELIX: You can slow me down, but you can't stop me.
CHAKOTAY: What are you trying to do?
NEELIX: I'm going back where I belong.
CHAKOTAY: You belong here, Neelix.
NEELIX: Not anymore. I died in that nebula. You should have left me!
CHAKOTAY: Neelix.
NEELIX: No closer! I've created a site to site transport. No one can override the signal.
CHAKOTAY: You told me you were at peace.
NEELIX: I will be, as soon as I tap this control.
CHAKOTAY: What really happened in your vision quest? What did you see?
NEELIX: My sister, the crew, myself. They all told me the same thing. There's no point in living. And I agree with them.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure those were powerful images, but there are many ways to interpret them. You may be coming face to face with your own fear of death. Or the manifestation of your emotional crisis. Your deepest beliefs have been thrown into doubt. It's only natural the vision quest would reflect that.
NEELIX: Eleven years ago, I saw my world in ruins, my family murdered. All that's kept me going is knowing that one day we'd be together again. That I'd see them again. But it's not true. And I can't live without that hope.
CHAKOTAY: I understand that this can change how you look at things, but it can also lead to an even stronger faith. You don't know. You're not there yet.
WILDMAN (voiceover): Ensign Wildman to Neelix.
CHAKOTAY: Answer her!
WILDMAN (voiceover): Neelix, please respond.
NEELIX: No.
CHAKOTAY: You're being called back to your life again, Neelix. Don't turn your back on it. We're your family now.
NEELIX: It's not enough.
CHAKOTAY: It is for us. His function on this crew is diverse. That's what Seven of Nine said about you. Even our Borg understands how important you are on this ship. It's not just the duties you perform, it's the way you make people feel when you're around.
NEELIX: That Neelix is gone.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think he is.
WILDMAN: Why didn't you answer me? I had to have the computer track you down. Naomi thought she saw a monster in the replicator. Neelix, what's going on?
NEELIX: I'm trying to decide some things.
CHAKOTAY: That little girl needs you, Neelix. Monsters in the replicator? Who else on this ship can handle that?
NEELIX: Duty calls.

[Naomi's bedroom]
NEELIX: Goodnight, sir.
NAOMI: He says goodnight.
NEELIX: Goodnight, Naomi.
NAOMI: Goodnight.
NEELIX: What's the matter?
NAOMI: Mummy says you were sick.
NEELIX: I was, but I'm okay now.
NAOMI: Did a monster get you?
NEELIX: Yes, I suppose so. But I chased him away. Pleasant dreams.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: Ensign Kim. I require your assistance in Jefferies tube thirty seven alpha.
KIM: Well, can it wait? I just got off duty.
SEVEN: It is urgent.

[Tuvok's quarters]
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Bridge to Commander Tuvok.
TUVOK: Tuvok here.
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): You're needed on the bridge, sir.
TUVOK: On my way.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Computer, lights on.
JANEWAY: Neelix? Is anybody here?

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Voyager to Lieutenant Paris.
PARIS: Paris here.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): How's it going out there, Tom?
PARIS: One more orbit and I should have all the data we need.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Good work. See you when you get back. Chakotay out.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: Crewman. Ensign.
CREWWOMAN: Sir.
ENSIGN: Hello, sir.

[Jefferies tube]
KIM: It looks to me like you aligned the power couplings perfectly.
SEVEN: I did.
KIM: If you're so sure then why'd you need me to look at them?
SEVEN: I did not.
KIM: Then what's this all about?
SEVEN: I've learned from observing Lieutenants Torres and Paris that humans sometimes require a pretext for being intimate with one another.
KIM: Intimate.
SEVEN: Resistance is futile.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: Paris to Voyager.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Voyager here.
PARIS: My primary warp manifold just ruptured. I've lost helm control. Auxiliary power is offline. Thruster's won't respond.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Say again, Tom. Your signal's breaking up.
PARIS: My orbit's decaying. I don't think I can hold it.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Repeat that, Tom.
PARIS: I need an emergency beam-out!
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Voyager to Lieutenant Paris. Come in.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Neelix?
NEELIX: What can I do for you, Captain?
JANEWAY: Where is everybody?
NEELIX: Didn't you see them when you came in?
JANEWAY: No.
NEELIX: Take a look. Computer, activate lights.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Lieutenant Commander Tuvok reporting for duty.
TUVOK: Is something wrong?
PARIS: I think you forgot something, Tuvok.
TUVOK: It appears that in my haste to report to the bridge, I neglected to put on my uniform.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: What happened to them?
NEELIX: They died.
JANEWAY: Why?
NEELIX: You didn't get them home in time.

[Paris's quarters]
PARIS: Hello.
TORRES: Good morning. Sleep well?
PARIS: Not really. What are you doing here?
TORRES: I just thought I'd stop by and ask you why you didn't meet me for breakfast.
PARIS: Breakfast. What time is it?
TORRES: Seven forty.
PARIS: And we were supposed to meet at oh seven hundred.
TORRES: I was there. Right after I got off the night shift. I waited, and I waited, and I called you on the comm.
PARIS: I, er, I didn't hear you. I was having this wild nightmare. I was out like a light. I'm sorry. I'll get dressed right now.
TORRES: You don't have time. You're due on the bridge at oh eight hundred and I've got to get some sleep.
PARIS: I hate this! We never see each other.
TORRES: I'm off Friday night.
PARIS: Great. Let's go skiing. How about Saint Moritz?
TORRES: We went skiing last time.
PARIS: And you loved it. You're getting really good, you know.
TORRES: I just thought maybe we could run a program where the wind chill factor wasn't thirty below zero. Like Fiji, or Samoa.
PARIS: There's nothing to do there.
TORRES: And you can be warm while you're not doing it.
PARIS: How about a compromise? Er, spring skiing in Chile? Much warmer.
TORRES: A compromise? How about Tahiti?
PARIS: Tahiti. As long as I can go water-skiing, fine.
TORRES: You're on. Now go get dressed, so you'll still have some time to stop for some coffee.
PARIS: I'll see you Friday night.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Morning, Tom. What'll it be? Scrambled? Sunny side up? Over easy?
PARIS: Just a cup of coffee.
NEELIX: Are you sure? Breakfast is the most important meal of the day, you know.
PARIS: Neelix.
NEELIX: Right.
PARIS: Neelix, did you have a rough night or something?
NEELIX: Why do you ask?
PARIS: Because you just poured me a steaming cup of cooking oil.
NEELIX: Actually I did have a little trouble sleeping last night. Nightmares.
PARIS: Oh. Me too.
NEELIX: Must have been those three full moons we passed yesterday. Well, a few sips of my coffee should clear the fuzz out of your brain.
PARIS: Maybe you should pour yourself a cup while you're at it.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We seem to be a little short-handed today.
CHAKOTAY: Tom and Harry are both late. I was going to give them another five minutes but I'll call them now if you'd like.
JANEWAY: That's all right. I'm a little late myself, aren't I.
CHAKOTAY: I wasn't going to mention it. Burning the midnight oil?
JANEWAY: Actually, I went to bed early for a change, but I had a nightmare and I could not get back to sleep.
CHAKOTAY: I had a bad dream last night, too.
JANEWAY: You tell me yours and I'll tell you mine.
PARIS: Sorry I'm late, Captain.
JANEWAY: Well?
CHAKOTAY: I was in the forest with my father. We were hunting deer, which was odd because that was something I always refused to do. We cornered the animal. I looked to my father to see if he was going to kill it but he wasn't my father anymore. He was a vicious looking alien.
JANEWAY: There was an alien in my dream, too. And it wasn't from any race I've seen before. He had sharp ridges on his forehead and on the front of his neck.
CHAKOTAY: That's what mine looked like.
PARIS: I don't mean to be eavesdropping but, I had a nightmare last night too, and I'm pretty sure I saw the same guy.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, by any chance did you have a bad dream last night?
TUVOK: I did have a somewhat unsettling dream, yes. It involved a alien with ridges on his face and neck.
JANEWAY: I'd say this sounds like more than a coincidence. Let's get the rest of the senior staff together and come up with some answers. Which reminds me, where's Harry?
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Ensign Kim.
JANEWAY: Computer, locate Ensign Kim.
COMPUTER: Ensign Kim is in his quarters.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.

[Turbolift]
JANEWAY: Deck six. I've got a hunch Harry's dreaming about our new alien friend.
TUVOK: That would be consistent with the experience the rest of us have had.
JANEWAY: Tell me more about your dream. Where exactly did you see the alien?
TUVOK: As a matter of fact it was here in the turbolift.
JANEWAY: What happened?
TUVOK: The alien simply stared at me as if scrutinizing my appearance.
JANEWAY: That's what happened in my dream. What did you do?
TUVOK: I returned to my quarters.
JANEWAY: Did the alien follow you?
TUVOK: He did.
JANEWAY: And then?
TUVOK: He watched me.
JANEWAY: Doing what?
TUVOK: Getting dressed.
JANEWAY: Getting dressed?
TUVOK: Yes.
JANEWAY: I don't suppose I should ask why you were undressed.
TUVOK: I would prefer that you didn't.

[Outside Kim's quarters]
JANEWAY: Harry? Harry!
TUVOK: Computer, open door one zero five dash two. Security clearance Tuvok zeta nine.

[Kim's quarters]
JANEWAY: Harry? Harry, wake up!

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Are they comatose?
EMH: Not exactly. They all appear to be in a hyper REM state. I've tried every conventional method of waking them, from drugs to direct cortical stimulation, but nothing works.
JANEWAY: Do you have any idea what's causing this?
EMH: Scans haven't detected any viral or bacterial agents. No cranial trauma, no neural disorders. They're simply asleep.
JANEWAY: I'd say it's a pretty good bet that this is somehow related to the alien from our dreams.
EMH: Any progress in identifying him?
JANEWAY: Not yet, but I've got everyone working on it. In the meantime, what's your recommendation?.
EMH: Large doses of animazine.
JANEWAY: I thought you said drugs weren't working.
EMH: Not for them. For everybody else. Until I can determine what's happening, I'd suggest the rest of you avoid going to sleep.

[Briefing room]
PARIS: I'd say his ridges were a little more pronounced.
TORRES: Computer, increase facial ridge height by four centimeters.
PARIS: That's closer.
CHAKOTAY: I think his eyes were wider apart.
TORRES: Computer, increase the space between the eyes by three centimeters. Increase skin color and texture.
JANEWAY: That's him.
CHAKOTAY: Has anybody seen this species before? While you were awake, I mean. Seven?
SEVEN: He doesn't resemble any species assimilated by the Borg.
PARIS: So is he just a figment of our imagination?
TORRES: If he is, we've all been imagining the exact same thing.
TUVOK: One possible explanation is that he's attempting to make telepathic contact.
JANEWAY: He's doing more than making contact. We've got six crewmembers who can't wake up. For all we know it's some sort of attack.
SEVEN: From where? Astrometric scans haven't revealed any ships in this vicinity, or planets capable of sustaining humanoid life.
PARIS: So where do we look?
CHAKOTAY: In our dreams. That's the only place any of us have seen him, right? So if we want to communicate with him, find out what he wants, we'll have to do it on his terms.
TUVOK: How do you propose we do that?
CHAKOTAY: Lucid dreaming.
TORRES: What's that?
CHAKOTAY: It's a technique which allows you to take control of your dream.
PARIS: That happened to me once. I dreamt I was falling and suddenly I realized that I was dreaming, and I could fly, land, do whatever I wanted. I was in complete control of the dream.
CHAKOTAY: What happened to you by accident is something some people can do by design. I've been able to have a lucid dream by using the same technology I use for a vision quest. I may be able to use it to communicate with this alien.
JANEWAY: Maybe so, but how do we know you'd be able to wake up again?
CHAKOTAY: It's kind of like self-hypnosis. Before I go to sleep, I choose a visual cue, something to let me know I'm dreaming. Earth's moon, say. Once I see it, I can wake myself by tapping the back of my hand three times.
TUVOK: Perhaps you are capable of doing this under normal circumstances, but these were hardly conventional dreams we experienced.
CHAKOTAY: I don't see any other way of finding out what our friend here is after, or how we can wake up Harry and the others. Besides, we can't stay awake forever.
JANEWAY: You'll do this in Sickbay, under the Doctor's supervision. The rest of you keep scanning the region. Analyze this ship from stem to stern. Wherever he is, find him.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Normally I consider a good night's sleep an important part of any health regimen, but in this case, I can't recommend it.
CHAKOTAY: I respect your medical opinion, Doctor, but at this point we're out of options.
EMH: This will regulate your hypothalamus, but in all probability I won't be able to wake you. You'll be on your own.
CHAKOTAY: I understand.
JANEWAY: Ready? Pleasant dreams.
CHAKOTAY: Ah-koo-chee-moya. Far from the sacred places of my grandfathers, far from the bones of my people, I seek to sleep, to meet the one who has visited us in our dreams.

[Mess hall]
CHAKOTAY: I know this is a dream. My dream. I'm in control.
DREAM ALIEN: You're mistaken.
CHAKOTAY: Am I?
DREAM ALIEN: This is more than a dream. It's my reality. And you're no different than the others.
CHAKOTAY: The others?
DREAM ALIEN: The waking species. For centuries, you've come and found us in a state that you call sleep and tried to destroy us. But not anymore. Now we are in control. One by one, you will fall asleep and enter our reality, where it is you who will be destroyed.
CHAKOTAY: We didn't attack you. We didn't even know you existed until we started seeing you in our dreams. Tell me how I can wake my crew and I promise we'll leave.
DREAM ALIEN: As long as you're asleep, you're no threat to us.
CHAKOTAY: I can wake myself anytime I want. And if I do, I'm going to start looking for you in the waking world. Find where you're sleeping. You wouldn't want that.
DREAM ALIEN: Leave our space. Once you're beyond it, your people will awaken.
CHAKOTAY: Just tell me how far we need to go.
DREAM ALIEN: There's a six planet system less than a parsec away. It marks the nearest border of our space.
CHAKOTAY: We can be past it in one day.
DREAM ALIEN: Then wake yourself, and pray you never dream of us again.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Congratulations, Commander. You're awake.
JANEWAY: Chakotay?
CHAKOTAY: I'm fine.
JANEWAY: The alien, did you see him? And?
CHAKOTAY: Well, it was certainly one of the most interesting away missions I've ever been on. I'll tell you about it on the way to the bridge.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Tuvok, scan for a six planet system. It should be less than a parsec from here.
TUVOK: I have it, Captain, at coordinates one three nine mark four two.
JANEWAY: Tom, lay in a course.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. Course laid it. Do you mind if I ask where we're heading?
CHAKOTAY: Past the alien's territory. Once we're clear of it, Harry and the others should wake up.
PARIS: And the rest of us can finally get some sleep.
JANEWAY: One step at a time, Tom.
CHAKOTAY: From what the alien told me it sounds like they have corporeal form but they communicate through their dreams. For them, it's as real as the waking world.
JANEWAY: Extraordinary.
CHAKOTAY: It reminds me of the Australian aborigines. They believed the dream world was no more or less real than the waking world. In fact, their creation mythology says their ancestors actually dreamed the universe into existence.
JANEWAY: That's mythology. This seems to be fact.
CHAKOTAY: I wonder, do they ever wake up? How did they evolve this way?
JANEWAY: We may never know. Sometimes first contact is last contact.
PARIS: We're approaching the border of the alien's space.
JANEWAY: Commander Tuvok, inform the Doctor.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Wake up Ensign.
KIM: What's going on?
EMH: You were napping.
KIM: In Sickbay?
EMH: We had to move you here when we couldn't wake you.
KIM: How long?
EMH: Seventeen hours. I take it you experienced nightmares like the rest of the crew?
KIM: Oh, I had nightmares all right.
EMH: Tell me about them.
KIM: Well, I was in the corridor
SEVEN: Captain Janeway asked me to bring you the results of our Astrometric scans. She thought they might be helpful in determining the precise cause of the crew's somnolence.
EMH: Thank you.
SEVEN: Ensign Kim, now that you're awake I require your assistance in Jefferies tube twenty one beta. Is something wrong?
KIM: No. I, er, I'm still feeling a little groggy.
SEVEN: Then I'll wait until you are fully recovered.
EMH: Now then, Ensign, you were telling me about your nightmare.
KIM: You know what, Doc, I'm famished. Haven't eaten in at least seventeen hours, right?
EMH: Very well. Go eat, get some clothes on, and report back in an hour.
KIM: I'll see you later. You too, Seven.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: And the next thing I knew, I was being boiled alive in a pot of my own leola root stew.
TORRES: Talk about a nightmare.
NEELIX: It was perfectly seasoned.
TORRES: Well, if it isn't Sleeping Beauty.
KIM: I do look well-rested, don't I?
NEELIX: Is everyone awake now?
KIM: The Doc checked us all out, He says we're fine.
TORRES: Have a seat. We were just trading dream stories.
NEELIX: Tell us yours.
KIM: Oh, it was nothing very interesting. Just the usual, you know.
TORRES: Who was she, Harry?
KIM: The woman of my dreams. What I'd like to know is what Tuvok dreamt about.
NEELIX: Yes, Commander, tell us. What do Vulcan's dream?
KIM: Aren't you supposed to have horrible nightmares?
TORRES: I wonder what a Vulcan nightmare would be like.
NEELIX: Alone, exiled on a planet where the only form of communication is laughter.
TORRES: Oh, come on, Tuvok.
TUVOK: I won't dignify this inquisition with a response.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Red alert. All hands to battle stations.

[Bridge]
PARIS: They're coming around for another pass.
JANEWAY: Auxiliary power to the shields. Return fire.
CHAKOTAY: No damage to the alien ship. Our phasers can't penetrate their shields.
JANEWAY: Arm photon torpedoes. We seem to have a knack for provoking strangers these days.
TUVOK: Shields are offline.
JANEWAY: Fire.
CHAKOTAY: I've lost power to the torpedo launchers.
JANEWAY: What's happening?
TUVOK: Power's being drained from all systems.
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
DREAM ALIEN (screen): Captain. Ensign Kim. Commander Chakotay. I'm glad to see you all up and about.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Engineering. We need auxiliary power to the engines now.
DREAM ALIEN (screen): I think you'll find that impossible.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna? Report.
TORRES (voiceover): There's a localized

[Engineering]
TORRES: Dampening field around the ship, Captain.

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): I can't give you engines, weapons, shields.
CHAKOTAY: Everything you told me was a lie. This was all an elaborate trap to get Voyager here.
DREAM ALIEN (screen): It appears you're learning more about my people after all. Prepare to surrender your ship.
TUVOK: Captain. Three more alien vessels are approaching. They are powering weapons.
JANEWAY: You've gone to so much trouble to commandeer this ship, I don't think you're going to destroy it.
DREAM ALIEN (screen): I won't need to.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the crew. We're under attack. Implement defense procedure omega.
DREAM ALIEN: It's no use. We've taken every deck. The ship is ours.

[Cargo Bay two]
CREWWOMAN: Captain?
CHAKOTAY: All the time I thought I was negotiating, they were just setting us up to fly right into their web.
JANEWAY: You couldn't have known it was a trick.
KIM: I don't understand. They exist in dreams and reality.
TUVOK: Apparently, entering our dreams was their way to learn about us. Perhaps to probe our weaknesses.
PARIS: Not to mention lure us into an ambush.
CHAKOTAY: We need to retake the ship.
JANEWAY: That means getting out of this cargo bay.
TORRES: I checked the Jefferies tubes. They're sealed.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can open them manually.
CHAKOTAY: That's not going to be easy. They've got people everywhere.
TUVOK: We'll have to create a diversion.
JANEWAY: Any ideas?
SEVEN: I have one, Captain.
KIM: What the hell are you doing?
SEVEN: Creating a diversion. Ensign Kim, it is your fault we have been captured.
SEVEN: I suggest you fight back.
JANEWAY: Tom, try to get into a Jefferies tube. You two work on the power grid. I'll deal with this.
DREAM ALIEN: Stop, stop.
JANEWAY: What's going on here? These are my people, I'll handle them. Ensign, that's enough. Move.
TORRES: What's wrong?
CHAKOTAY: I'm still asleep.
TORRES: What are you talking about.
TORRES: Chakotay!

[Sickbay]
EMH: Commander Chakotay, you're awake.
CHAKOTAY: Am I? Are you sure?
EMH: Of course you are.
EMH: What are you looking for?
CHAKOTAY: The Moon.
EMH: What?
CHAKOTAY: I don't see it.
JANEWAY: Where's the captain?
EMH: Asleep, along with the rest of the crew.
CHAKOTAY: All of them?
EMH: Except me. No rest for the never weary.
CHAKOTAY: What happened?
EMH: As soon as you entered your lucid dream, they all began falling asleep one by one. I've been trying every method I can think of to revive them, but nothing works. It's been thirty nine hours.
CHAKOTAY: I've been asleep for almost two days?
EMH: If I can't wake them soon, I'm going to have to start feeding them intravenously.
CHAKOTAY: They let me think I was awake but I was still dreaming.
EMH: You weren't the only one. Look at this.
CHAKOTAY: What is it?
EMH: A neurogenic field created by heightened electrical activity in the brain. It's been occurring in all the sleeping crew members. And that's not all. This is Ensign Kim's brain wave pattern, indicating that he's dreaming in a hyper REM state. This is Crewman Foster's pattern.
CHAKOTAY: They're identical.
EMH: Lieutenant Torres, Captain Janeway, Commander Tuvok. I don't know what it means.
CHAKOTAY: I think I do. Not only are they dreaming, they're all having the same dream. It wasn't just my dream, it was a communal dream.
EMH: Everyone's REM patterns are identical. They're experiencing the same images, each from his or her own point of view.
CHAKOTAY: Yes. I saw the rest of the crew, interacted with them. We were all working together to fight off an alien attack.
EMH: Which wasn't real.
CHAKOTAY: Oh, we're under attack all right.
EMH: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Maybe this is the way these aliens fight their enemies. They exist somewhere in our reality as physical beings, but they must be asleep, unable to defend themselves against what they call waking species. We'll never defeat them in their dream reality, but if we can find them, find where they're sleeping, we'll have the advantage.
EMH: But we've been scanning for lifeforms since this started and we haven't found anything.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we've been looking in the wrong place. I'm betting a species that spends its time sleeping isn't going to be hanging around where conventional scans can locate them.
EMH: So how do we find them?
CHAKOTAY: This neurogenic field you mentioned. Anyone in a hyper REM state would be producing one.
EMH: In theory, yes. So if we scan for other neurogenic fields it might lead us to the sleeping aliens.
CHAKOTAY: If you need me, I'll be on the bridge.

[Bridge]
EMH: Time for a little energy boost, Commander. We don't want you drifting back to sleep. Sorry about the mess, but this is what happens when my repeated requests for a larger Sickbay fall on deaf ears. What is it?
CHAKOTAY: Scanners have detected a neurogenic field emanating from beneath the surface of a planet less than a light year from here. Excuse me, Tom, but I've got to change our course.

[Cargo Bay two]
NEELIX: Still dreaming? How is that possible?
TORRES: I don't know, but that's what Chakotay said right before he vanished.
JANEWAY: That doesn't make any sense. He was wide awake, right here with us.
TORRES: He said something about still being asleep and then he started tapping the back of his hand like he said he would to wake up from his lucid dream. And then he disappeared. The question is, where did he go?
KIM: The aliens must have transported him somewhere.
TUVOK: Or perhaps he did wake up.
TORRES: Tuvok?
TUVOK: It's possible he was dreaming all of this.
JANEWAY: Wait a minute. If Chakotay was dreaming and he woke up, what are we doing here?
TUVOK: Perhaps we're dreaming as well.
TORRES: Now I'm lost.
NEELIX: You're not the only one.
TUVOK: Consider then, that we all experienced nightmares about an alien whose people apparently live out their lives in a dream state. Perhaps we're in that state at this very moment.
KIM: That's ridiculous. We're not asleep.
JANEWAY: Wait.
TUVOK: When you dream, you're rarely aware that you're sleeping.
JANEWAY: I can understand how we can mistake dreaming for reality, but that doesn't explain how we're all interacting with one another.
NEELIX: Maybe we're not.
TORRES: Not what?
NEELIX: Interacting with one another. Maybe this is all one person's dream, for example mine, and none of you are really here.
TORRES: Trust me, Neelix. I wish I weren't, but I'm here.
SEVEN: Collective unconsciousness.
JANEWAY: Seven, come here.
SEVEN: The Borg share a collective consciousness. These aliens may have somehow inducted a state of collective unconsciousness.
TORRES: You mean we're all sharing the same dream?
TUVOK: It is possible.
JANEWAY: This is all fascinating speculation, but unless we have proof to the contrary we have to treat this like an invasion.
PARIS: I managed to open a Jefferies tube hatch.
JANEWAY: Good work. Neelix, Seven, Kim, do what you can to distract the guards. We're going to find a way to retake the ship.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Looks like a complete power drain.
TORRES: Their dampening field has shut down the warp core.
TUVOK: Which begs the question of what they intend to do with an unpowered ship.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, grab some phaser rifles from the weapons locker. Something tells me that when we try to disable the dampening field, we're going to get the aliens attention.
TORRES: It looks like they're using harmonic inversion technology. If I can isolate the containment frequency, I may be able to get main power back online.
JANEWAY: That was easy.
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in sixty seconds.
JANEWAY: Maybe a little too easy.
TORRES: I don't understand.
JANEWAY: Can you eject the core?
TORRES: I'm trying. It's not working.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in fifty seconds.
TORRES: We've got to get out of here. I'm trying to put a containment field around Engineering.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in forty seconds.
TORRES: Got it! Let's move!
JANEWAY: I don't understand why you couldn't eject the core.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in thirty seconds.
JANEWAY: Something's not right.
TUVOK: Captain, we must hurry.
JANEWAY: I'm going back in there.
TORRES: You'll be killed!
JANEWAY: I think I'm on to something. You two go!
TUVOK: Captain!
JANEWAY: That's an order!
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in ten seconds. Nine. Eight. Seven.

[Corridor]
COMPUTER: Six. Five. Four. Three. Two. One.
JANEWAY: Either I've become impervious to antimatter explosions, or we're still dreaming.
TORRES: A warp core explosion should have destroyed the ship.
JANEWAY: If I were awake, or if any of this were real, which it obviously isn't. Things just weren't adding up. Chakotay's disappearance. The warp core failing to eject. And as Chakotay said, lucid dreaming is about taking control, so I took a chance.
TUVOK: Surely there must have been a less extreme method of testing your assumptions. As Captain, you shouldn't be taking chances with your life.
JANEWAY: I'm touched by your concern, Tuvok.
TORRES: Now that we know this is a dream, what do we do?
TUVOK: I suggest we find a way to regain consciousness.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Captain, how did you wake yourself?
JANEWAY: The same way you did.
CHAKOTAY: The others?
JANEWAY: They should all be starting to wake up.
EMH: Rise and shine, Mister Paris.
CHAKOTAY: We need to get as far away from that planet as possible.
JANEWAY: Agreed.
CHAKOTAY: I'll make the necessary course correction.
JANEWAY: What is it?
CHAKOTAY: This isn't real.
JANEWAY: Of course it is.
JANEWAY: See?
CHAKOTAY: No.
JANEWAY: Doctor?
EMH: He's paranoid, disoriented. I suspect much of the crew will suffer similar symptoms when they awake. Try to relax, Commander. I'm going to sedate you.
CHAKOTAY: No. I need to wake, not sleep!
EMH: I'm here to help you.
CHAKOTAY: No!
EMH: It's all right, Commander. You're awake again.
CHAKOTAY: What happened?
EMH: You dozed off.
CHAKOTAY: I couldn't wake myself like I did before.
EMH: Our proximity to the neurogenic field is making it more difficult to stay conscious.
CHAKOTAY: I need to get down there and find a way to neutralize it.
EMH: Not so fast. This is a highly potent animazine derivative. If you feel yourself falling asleep again, you must use it. And Commander, I suggest we keep an open comm. line. I may need to provide you with a verbal splash of cold water every now and then.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: It's not working.
TUVOK: It's safe to assume that Chakotay and the Doctor are making every effort to wake us from our sleep.
JANEWAY: We have to let the rest of the crew know what's happening. That as long as they know they're in a dream, they can't be harmed.
TUVOK: And if the aliens try to stop us?
JANEWAY: Then we turn this dream world of theirs into a nightmare.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Okay, Doctor, I'm in.
EMH (voiceover): Acknowledged, Commander.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Stand aside.
DREAM ALIEN: Your weapons are useless against us.
JANEWAY: You're not fooling anyone. We know this is a dream.
DREAM ALIEN: You're confused.
JANEWAY: Actually, I'm finally seeing things clearly.
DREAM ALIEN: Shoot them.
JANEWAY: Now, stand aside.

[Cargo Bay two]
JANEWAY: All of you, listen closely. What we have to do is stay in control of the dream. If we can do that, the aliens shouldn't be able to hurt us.
DREAM ALIEN: You sound very sure of yourself, Captain.
JANEWAY: Why shouldn't I be?
DREAM ALIEN: Have you thought about what's happening to your bodies in the waking world? How long do you think they'll survive without nourishment, without physical activity? Your bodies are withering away as we speak. You can't stop it.
JANEWAY: Don't be so sure.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: It's some kind of transmitter. It looks like they use it to amplify the

[Doctor's office]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Neurogenic field.
EMH: Can you turn it off?

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: I tried knocking it out with my phaser, but there's some kind of forcefield.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Commander?

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Sorry, I'm having trouble concentrating.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Time for your medicine.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Doctor. This animazine, it's pretty powerful.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Yes. And I suggest you take it immediately.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: These aliens, they look pretty frail.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: That's fascinating, Commander. Now please, inject yourself.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: They probably wouldn't have the same tolerance for stimulants that we do.
EMH (voiceover): What are you getting at?
CHAKOTAY: The animazine might be capable of waking up one of these aliens.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Commander, I'd be happy to discuss comparative pharmacology with you after you administer your injection.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I think I'm going to give it to one of my sleepy friends here.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: What would that accomplish?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): If I can wake him up

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: I might be able to get him to deactivate this generator.
EMH (voiceover): There's not enough

[Doctor's Office]
EMH: Animazine for two doses. If you fall asleep again, there's no way I can revive you.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, I want you to go to the bridge.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Commander!
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I'm giving you an order!

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Go to the bridge and target my comm. signal with a photon torpedo.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: You're delirious. You're asking me to incinerate you.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Not just me. These aliens and their transmitter, too. But only if you don't hear from me

[Doctor's office]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): In five minutes. Understood?
EMH: Commander.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Understood?

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Aye, sir.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Tell me how to deactivate this transmitter, or I start shooting.

[Cargo Bay two]
ALIEN: What happened?
JANEWAY: Looks like he woke up.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: I'll give you five seconds. Four, three, two

[Cargo Bay two]
JANEWAY: Chakotay.
DREAM ALIEN: Who's going to help you now, Captain?
CHAKOTAY: I found the cavern and your people. I'm there right now in the waking world. And it's all going to be destroyed in less than two minutes, unless you deactivate that transmitter.
DREAM ALIEN: If you are there, you'll be killed, too. I think you're lying.
CHAKOTAY: Oh, believe me, if I don't contact my ship you and I are both going to die in our sleep. Chief Medical Officer's log, Stardate 51471.3. With the neurogenic field neutralized I've been successful in reviving the entire crew. Unfortunately, the experience has produced a troubling side effect for many of them. Acute insomnia.

[Mess hall]
CHAKOTAY: Computer, lights on.
NEELIX: Sorry, Commander. I didn't mean to frighten you.
CHAKOTAY: You're not starting breakfast this early, are you?
NEELIX: Just rearranging the supply cabinets. I couldn't sleep.
CHAKOTAY: Neither could I.
NEELIX: How about a soothing cup of tea?
CHAKOTAY: Sounds good.
NEELIX: I know it's silly, but every time I'm about to doze off, I'm terrified that I won't be able to wake again.
CHAKOTAY: You too?
PARIS: We just finished a little late night hoverball on the holodeck.
KIM: Three games in a row. We were hoping it would wear us out.
NEELIX: You know, I could learn to enjoy these late night get-togethers.
PARIS: Speak for yourself. I would kill for a good night's sleep.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix, I think it's time for breakfast.

[Corridor]
TORRES: Cold, patronizing, arrogant.
CHAKOTAY: I know she can be difficult.
TORRES: Difficult? She's impossible.
CHAKOTAY: I'm getting tired of playing referee every time you two have a disagreement. If you have a problem, talk to her yourself.
TORRES: Does the word irrelevant mean anything to you? She won't listen. She may look human, and she may sound human, but she's all Borg.
CHAKOTAY: Part of the problem is your attitude. You've never tried to accept Seven as part of the crew.
TORRES: And with good reason. Guess what she did this morning. She took an isolinear processor out of Engineering without asking, and when I went to Astrometrics to get it back she had locked the door, like that lab is her own private domain.
CHAKOTAY: What do you want me to do? Throw her in the brig for the rest of the trip home?
TORRES: I've heard worse ideas.
SEVEN (voiceover): Seven of Nine to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay here.
SEVEN (voiceover): Report to the Astrometrics lab at once.
CHAKOTAY: On my way.
TORRES: Did you hear that? She's giving orders now. I'm telling you, Chakotay. If she gets in my way again, I am not responsible for what happens.
CHAKOTAY: You're a senior officer on this ship. Act like one. Find a way to deal with her.
CHAKOTAY: Astrometrics?
JANEWAY: I've been summoned. Any guesses what this is about?
CHAKOTAY: None.

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: Your call sounded urgent.
SEVEN: It was. I've been working to increase the range of the astrometric sensors, and I have detected something that you should find of particular interest.
JANEWAY: A ship. What's special about it?
SEVEN: I've analyzed the warp signature. It's a Starfleet vessel. The ship we're seeing is in the Alpha Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: You couldn't have extended the astrometric sensors that far.
SEVEN: No, but I increased the range far enough to detect a large network of relay stations. They're alien in origin, abandoned but still functioning. By establishing a sensor link with the nearest station I'm getting readings from the entire network. The Starfleet ship is within range of one of the farthest sensors near the outer edges of the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: It must be on a deep space mission.
SEVEN: I've extrapolated it's course.
CHAKOTAY: It doesn't look like we'll be able to keep track of it very long.
SEVEN: The ship should move out of range in forty one minutes.
CHAKOTAY: Can we use the network to transmit a message?
SEVEN: Yes, but we'll have to remodulate our signal to match the network's interlink frequency.
JANEWAY: We don't have much time. Get it done, Chakotay.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Ensign Kim.
KIM (voiceover): Kim here.
SEVEN: I'm sending you the interlink frequencies.

[Bridge]
KIM: Got it.
JANEWAY: Seven, how much longer do we have?
SEVEN (voiceover): Sixteen minutes.
TORRES: That should do it. The subspace transceiver is at two hundred percent output and online. We're ready.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
KIM: Open.
JANEWAY: Starfleet vessel, this is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the starship Voyager. We are in the Delta Quadrant, at coordinates one eight, mark two oh five, mark four seven. Remodulate your signal to match our interlink frequency.
TUVOK: We're receiving a transmission.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Starship Voyager. We're in the
JANEWAY: Bridge to Seven. What went wrong?

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I don't understand. My readings show that the station picked up our message and relayed it across the entire network.

[Bridge]
TORRES: We should try widening the subspace bandwidth and sending the message again.
JANEWAY: Do it.
KIM: Transmitting.
SEVEN (voiceover): The signal is being relayed. No sign of interference.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Wait. It's being deflected back again.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): This is Captain Kathryn Janeway, starship Voyager, the Delta Quadrant.
SEVEN (voiceover): I have a possible explanation, Captain.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: As our carrier wave moves along the network, it may be degrading.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Can we try a different kind of signal? Something stronger?
TORRES: A holographic datastream might work. It wouldn't degrade so quickly.
CHAKOTAY: It would take too long to reconfigure the message, unless
JANEWAY: The Doctor.
TORRES: Exactly.
JANEWAY: Bring him to Astrometrics and I'll meet you there. We don't have much time.

[Medical lab]
TORRES: Doctor, you have to come with me, quickly.
EMH: Would you mind at least telling me what all this is about?

[Astrometrics lab]
EMH: When I requested more away missions, this isn't exactly what I had in mind.
JANEWAY: You may be our only chance to communicate with that ship.
TORRES: When you get there, you'll be downloaded into their EMH system. I'm sending an initiation code along with your program so you'll be activated immediately.
SEVEN: We have less than ninety seconds before that ship moves out of range.
EMH: How am I supposed to get back here?
JANEWAY: When you've completed your mission, instruct them to move within range of the sensor network. With any luck, they can send you back the same way you came.
EMH: Luck?
JANEWAY: I won't lie to you, doctor. A lot of things could go wrong. We're relying on an alien technology to send you across thousands of light years.
EMH: So there's a chance my program could be lost.
JANEWAY: Yes. I'm asking you to take that chance.
SEVEN: Thirty five seconds.
JANEWAY: Doctor?
EMH: Far be it from me to turn down an opportunity to become a hero. I'm ready.
TORRES: Torres to bridge.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Standing by.
TORRES: I'm downloading him into the transceiver array.
SEVEN: Ten seconds.
JANEWAY: Good luck, Doctor.
EMH: There's that word again.

[Prometheus Sickbay]
EMH: Hello? Is anyone here? Computer, identify this ship.
COMPUTER: This is the Federation starship Prometheus.
EMH: Are we in the Alpha Quadrant?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
EMH: Ah. Sickbay to bridge.
EMH: All right. this is Sickbay calling any crew member. Please respond. Computer, is the comm. system malfunctioning?
COMPUTER: Negative.
EMH: Then why can't I reach anyone?
COMPUTER: Access to the communications system has been restricted.
EMH: Restricted? But this is important. Isn't there some sort of emergency comm. channel available?
EMH: Try to lie still. You have severe phaser burns. What happened here?
OFFICER: Romulans. They've taken over the ship.

[Prometheus Bridge]
NEVALA: Commander, there's a vessel approaching on an intercept course. It's Starfleet.
REKAR: I told you to mask our warp trail.
NEVALA: I've been trying. These new systems are unfamiliar. We should have left some of the crew alive.
REKAR: You'd be surprised how stubborn humans can be.
NEVALA: The Starfleet ship is closing.
REKAR: Raise shields and prepare to fire phasers.

[Prometheus Sickbay]
EMH: Computer, how many Romulans are on board?
COMPUTER: Twenty seven.
EMH: Are there any Starfleet crewmembers?
COMPUTER: None alive.
EMH: Computer, display the design schematic of this ship and list general specifications.
COMPUTER: USS Prometheus. Experimental prototype designed for deep space tactical assignments. Primary battle systems include regenerative shielding, ablative hull armor, multivector assault mode.
EMH: Multivector assault mode? Describe.
COMPUTER: Access to tactical data requires level four clearance.
EMH: What can you show me at my clearance level?

[Prometheus Bridge]
NEVALA: Shields are holding.
REKAR: Engage the multivector assault mode.
NEVALA: That system has never been tested.
REKAR: Then we'll test it now. I gave you an order and I expect you to follow it. Multivector assault mode. Now!
NEVALA: Yes, Commander.
COMPUTER: Initiating decoupling sequence.

[Prometheus Sickbay]
COMPUTER: Autoseparation in ten seconds. Nine. Eight. Seven. Six.
EMH: Computer, what's happening? Computer?
COMPUTER: Five. Four. Three.

[Prometheus Bridge]
COMPUTER: Two. One. Separation sequence in progress.
NEVALA: We're in attack formation. Each section is armed and responding to our command.
REKAR: Attack pattern beta four seven.
COMPUTER: Specify target.
REKAR: The Starfleet vessel, bearing one six two mark seven.
COMPUTER: Pattern and target confirmed.
REKAR: I think we should consider that a successful test. Begin the reintegration sequence, then get me a full damage report.
NEVALA: Yes, Commander.
NEVALA: He's hurt.
REKAR: Take him to the medical bay.

[Prometheus Sickbay]
COMPUTER: Reintegration sequence complete.
EMH: Computer, is there any way for me to gain access to the communication system to send a message to another ship?
COMPUTER: Negative. Communications access requires level four clearance or above.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
NEVALA: Who activated you?
EMH: You did, automatically, when you entered Sickbay.
NEVALA: Can you treat him?
EMH: Of course, that's my function. Third degree burns, hairline jaw fracture, and a ruptured blood vessel in his brain. I'll have to operate.
NEVALA: You're a Starfleet program. Why should I trust you?
EMH: I'm a doctor. Whether my patient is human, or Romulan, I'll do everything in my power to save him. You're welcome to assist me if you like. Or maybe you'd just prefer to supervise.
NEVALA: Report to me when you're finished.
EMH: Mmm hmm.
EMH: Computer, can I access this ship's EMH program or do I need some kind of clearance for that, too?
COMPUTER: Access to that program is unrestricted.
EMH: Activate it.
EMH2: Please state the nature of the medical emergency. What the hell are you doing in my Sickbay? I've been programmed to identify every member of this crew. You aren't one of them.
EMH: That's because I'm
EMH2: State your rank and security clearance.
EMH: I don't have clearance. I'm an Emergency Medical Hologram. I've been sent here to
EMH2: Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes. You're the mark one EMH. The inferior program.
EMH: Inferior?
EMH2: Beady eyes, terrible bedside manner. I recognize you. But you're not part of this database. What are you doing here?
EMH: If you'd disengage your vocal subroutines for one second, I'd explain. I was transmitted onto this ship by a Starfleet vessel over sixty thousand light years from here.
EMH2: Sixty thousand light years? We don't have ships that far out.
EMH: It's the starship Voyager. We were taken into the Delta Quadrant four years ago by an alien force. What are you doing?
EMH2: Activating intruder alert.
EMH: That's the last thing you want to do.
EMH2: Security.
EMH: Listen to me. This vessel has been taken over by Romulans. The crew is dead. You and I are the only Starfleet officers on board. Do you understand?
EMH2: I understand.
EMH2: Computer, deactivate EMH.
EMH: Computer, activate EMH.
EMH2: Please state the nature of the medical emergency. Now what?
EMH: I need your help.
EMH2: Starfleet security protocol twenty eight subsection D. In the event of hostile alien takeover, the EMH is to deactivate and wait for rescue.
EMH: I'm afraid you don't have that luxury. There are two ships at stake here, yours and mine. Now, I need to know more about what's happening. Is the Federation at war with the Romulans?
EMH2: No. The Romulans haven't gotten involved in our fight with the Dominion.
EMH: The who?
EMH2: Long story.
EMH: In any case, we need to take control of this situation.
EMH2: I'm a doctor, not a commando.
EMH: It's time you became a little of both.
EMH2: You don't understand. The Prometheus is an experimental prototype, and so am I. I, I, I haven't even been field tested yet. I'm not designed for this kind of duty.
EMH: Try to calm down. You'll do fine as long as I'm here. I have plenty of expertise in this area. Now, first things first. We've got a patient. You treat his burns, I'll repair the bone fracture.
EMH2: You're not serious.
EMH: I certainly am.
EMH2: He's the enemy.
EMH: He needs our help. I assume you're familiar with the Hippocratic Oath?
EMH2: You see? You see what's happening? The Romulans are using you.
EMH: Hmm.
EMH2: Hmm what?
EMH: Your holomatrix is unstable. It may explain your erratic behavior.
EMH2: I told you, I'm a work in progress! I was only installed six weeks ago.
EMH: Stable or not, I need you. And so does he.
EMH2: He'll live. I say we leave him and deactivate ourselves.
EMH: No! You're free to do as you please. Go cower inside the data processor if you'd like. I'll work alone.
EMH2: We're medical holograms. What can we expect to do against a ship full of Romulans?
EMH: I'm not sure. Not yet. But I've faced my share of challenges. Alien invasions, macro-viral infestations. I've crossed Borg space, traveled through time.
EMH2: Have you run a self-diagnostic lately? The EMH mark one is designed to function in Sickbay only.
EMH: Voyager lost it's Chief Medical Officer four years ago. I've been active ever since.
EMH2: Four years? No wonder you're delusional. Your program's degrading after being active for so long.
EMH: I assure you I am in perfect health. I was saving Voyager from annihilation when you were only a gleam in your programmer's eye. Now, are you going to help me take back this ship or not?
EMH2: Get me the thrombic modulator.
EMH2: It's the cone shaped device. Hand it to me, please. Medical science has made a few advances while you've been off in the Delta Quadrant, did you say?
EMH: That's right.
EMH2: We don't use scalpels or leeches anymore. I suggest you let me handle the medical side of things. As for retaking the ship, I'll leave that in your experienced hands.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: No word. Our link to the sensor net is stable. Seven of Nine is standing watch in Astrometrics. I tried to relieve her but she doesn't want to leave her post. She says she doesn't need to regenerate for the next few days. What are you doing?
JANEWAY: Letters home. I started them a year ago. One to my family, one to Mark. I'm making a few updates, just in case. I know. It's premature.
CHAKOTAY: You're right. It's probably a mistake for us to get our hopes up at all. We've been through this before. All right, I'll admit it. I just finished a letter to my cousin in Ohio.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: The doctor is in.
NEELIX: Lieutenant, thank God you're here.
PARIS: What seems to be the trouble?
NEELIX: Well, one minute they were eating lunch, and the next they started perspiring and complaining of chest pain.
PARIS: Hmm. No wonder. Acute functional dyspepsia.
NEELIX: What's that?
PARIS: Heartburn.
NEELIX: Oh, I'm terribly sorry. I don't know how this could have happened.
PARIS: I'll replicate some antacid.
NEELIX: We'll have you feeling better in no time.

[Medical lab]
NEELIX: They're going to be all right, aren't they?
PARIS: It's heartburn, Neelix, not the Terrillian plague. What did you feed them, anyway?
NEELIX: Rodeo Red's Red Hot Rootin' Tootin' Chili.
PARIS: Where did you find that recipe?
NEELIX: I've been brushing up on classic American cuisine. When we get back to Earth, I want to make sure I have marketable job skills.
PARIS: Don't you think you're jumping the gun a little bit?
NEELIX: The Doctor is going to make it back, and he's going to bring a plan for Starfleet to rescue us. I have complete confidence in him.
PARIS: I hope you're right. If not, I'm going to spend the rest of this trip treating upset stomachs.
NEELIX: Oh, believe me, this is never going to happen again. It's just a matter of perfecting the recipe. Next time I'll use a few less jalapenos.

[Prometheus Sickbay]
EMH: I've accessed the navigational logs. We're at warp nine point nine, heading straight for Romulan space.
EMH2: This vessel was designed to go faster than anything in the fleet, so we'll never be rescued.
EMH: We've got to find a way to turn this ship around.
EMH2: How? Waltz on to the bridge and take over the helm?
EMH: Refresh my memory. Which of us has the terrible bedside manner?
EMH2: You're not my patient.
EMH: My first bit of good news. We have to incapacitate the Romulans somehow. What kind of anesthetics do you have handy?
EMH2: Only the best. Axonol, neurozine, anaesthazine.
EMH: Neurozine will do nicely. It can be distributed in gaseous form. Show me a schematic of the ship's ventilation system. Please.
EMH2: All primary systems have been rerouted to the bridge, including environmental control.
EMH: It looks like there are holo-emitters on every deck.
EMH2: There are. Unlike you, I'm not condemned to a Sickbay.
EMH: Get three canisters of neurozine. As a matter of record, I have free reign on Voyager, and I can even leave the ship as well.
EMH2: Leave your ship? How?
EMH: My mobile emitter. A little piece of twenty ninth century technology we obtained.
EMH2: Really?
EMH: I'm as close to a sentient life form as any hologram could hope to be. I socialize with the crew, fraternize with aliens. I've even had sexual relations.
EMH2: Sex? How's that possible? We're not equipped
EMH: Let's just say, I made an addition to my program.
EMH2: Before you leave, maybe you could download those subroutines into my database.
EMH: We'll see. It looks like the only place I can access environmental control is from the Ops console on the bridge.
EMH2: The bridge is swarming with Romulans.
EMH: That's the first thing you learn in the real world. Think on your feet.
EMH2: Well, good luck then. Computer, deactivate
EMH: Not so fast. You're going to Jefferies tube seventeen. The moment I unlock the controls you release the gas into the ventilation system.
EMH2: Jefferies tube seventeen? That's five decks up. What if I run into Romulans?
EMH: Improvise. Your journey begins here.
EMH: Traditionally, one crawls in headfirst.
EMH2: Thanks.

[Prometheus Bridge]
NEVALA: There you are, Doctor. Have you completed the surgery?
EMH: Yes. Your friend is recovering nicely. However, I found something disturbing in his blood work. It seems that he's been exposed to a nasty strain of the Torothka virus. And if he was, you may all have been. I've come to run some scans.
REKAR: No one here is sick.
EMH: Not yet. I understand the stomach cramps are unbearable, although some say the rash is worse.
REKAR: Conduct your scans. How far are we from our border?
NEVALA: At our present velocity, forty minutes.
REKAR: Alter our heading to one one eight mark two six.
NEVALA: That will take us off our course to Romulus.
REKAR: There's been a change of plans. We're giving this ship to someone who'll make full use of it's potential. The Tal'Shiar. I've made arrangements to rendezvous with their fleet within the hour.
NEVALA: But Commander, they're expecting us to be
REKAR: You have your orders. What are you doing?
EMH: I'm checking the biofilters for evidence of the virus.
REKAR: You haven't taken any readings at all.
EMH: Hmm.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: Next time, order the chicken salad.
PARIS: Oh, am I glad to see you.
KIM: What's the emergency?
PARIS: Take a look around you, Harry. What do you see?
KIM: Sickbay?
PARIS: Exactly.
KIM: So?
PARIS: So, it's not the helm of a starship, is it?
KIM: Did you accidentally inject yourself with some kind of psychotropic agent?
PARIS: I am a pilot, Harry, not a doctor.
KIM: This is a temporary assignment, just till the Doc gets back.
PARIS: What if he doesn't get back?
KIM: He'll be back.
PARIS: I need your help, Harry. Rescue me from medical exile.
KIM: How?
PARIS: You're an expert in holotechnology. You have got to design a new doctor.
KIM: You really are delirious. It took the greatest holoengineers in Starfleet years to develop the EMH. I can't just design a new doctor.
PARIS: Think of it as a challenge, Harry. A chance to make history and save your best friend all at the same time.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres. You are recalibrating the relay interface.
TORRES: That's right.
SEVEN: State your reasons for making these modifications.
TORRES: State your reasons, please. It's not what you say, Seven. It's how you say it.
SEVEN: I don't understand.
TORRES: You may have noticed that some of the crew seem a bit on edge when you're around.
SEVEN: I was Borg. I elicit apprehension.
TORRES: No, that's not what I mean. We're not afraid that you're going to assimilate us. We're just not used to. You just. You're rude.
SEVEN: I am rude?
TORRES: Yes. Yes. You order people around, you do things without permission, and whether you realize it or not you come off as a little insulting. You don't even say please or thank you. Look, I don't expect you to change overnight but, try to remember that we are not just a bunch of drones.
SEVEN: Your attempt to recalibrate the interface is ill-advised. The risk of disrupting our link is too great.
TORRES: In your opinion. That is exactly what I'm talking about. You haven't even been listening to me. I don't know why I try to talk to you if you don't even. Are we losing the link?
SEVEN: No. We're receiving a transmission from the relay station.
TORRES: The Doctor?
HIROGEN (screen): What are you?
TORRES: I'm Lieutenant Torres of the Starship Voyager.
HIROGEN (screen): You are using our technology.
TORRES: You mean the sensor network? We thought that it was abandoned.
HIROGEN (screen): It belongs to the Hirogen. Terminate your link.
TORRES: No, no, wait, please. We just
SEVEN: The link has been severed.

[Prometheus Ready room]
REKAR: What else have you done to this ship? I will deactivate you unless you start answering my questions.
EMH: If I answer them, you'll very likely deactivate me anyway, so I fail to see the point.
REKAR: You are nothing but a computer generated projection. I find it hard to believe you're capable of taking these actions independently.
EMH: How flattering.
REKAR: Tell me, who is operating your program? Is it someone on this ship? A Starfleet crew member we missed, or one of my own men?
EMH: Paranoia is a way of life for you, isn't it?
NEVALA: The computer log shows the ship received an optronic datastream transmission approximately six hours ago. It contained a holographic subroutine.
REKAR: Who sent it?
NEVALA: Unknown. The data pattern had a Starfleet signature.
REKAR: So, Starfleet has managed to sneak a holographic operative aboard. Very clever.
NEVALA: Were you only sent to spy on us, or does your mission include sabotage?
EMH: The datastream you detected came from an alien sensor network. It transferred me from a Starfleet ship in the Delta Quadrant.
NEVALA: The Delta Quadrant? That's absurd.
REKAR: This is pointless.
EMH: I couldn't agree more.
NEVALA: Maybe there's a better way to retrieve information from a hologram. I suggest a complete algorithm extraction. We can analyze his subroutines one by one.
REKAR: Proceed.
EMH: Isn't there some kind of convention regarding the treatment of prisoners?
EMH2: Did it work? Sorry to interrupt.
EMH: Did you anesthetize the entire ship?
EMH2: I did. I did.
EMH: How did you manage to release the neurozine? I never opened the ventilation system.
EMH2: Trapped in the Jefferies tube, alone, nowhere to run, his smug comrade captured by Romulans, EMH mark two had to improvise. Inspiration. He accessed the main computer and simulated a ship wide biohazard, making the computer think there was a microbiotic contamination on all decks.
EMH: And the ventilation system opened automatically.
EMH2: Presto. He then crawled back out of the tube, accessed the holoemitters, transferred here, excused the Romulan, saw the dumbfounded look on his comrade's face
EMH: The end. You know, you really should keep a personal log. Why bore others needlessly? We have to get to the bridge. This ship needs a crew, and we're it.
EMH2: Oh, trouble. The Prometheus is a prototype. Top secret. Only four people in all of Starfleet trained to operate it. I hope your myriad adventures included piloting lessons

[Prometheus Bridge]
EMH2: Because there's nothing in my program that will help us fly this thing.
EMH: I've had my share of piloting experience. Actually, only two lessons, and they were in a shuttlecraft on the holodeck. But I showed great intuition. Where's the helm?
EMH2: You'd better intuit it fast. We're only about eight minutes from the Romulan border.
EMH: Ah, there it is.
EMH2: This is all very complicated.
EMH: Stop breathing down my neck.
EMH2: My breathing is merely a simulation.
EMH: So is my neck. Stop it anyway.
EMH2: Is this a thruster control?
EMH: Don't touch that, we don't know what it does. It could be the self-destruct.
EMH2: You look worried.
EMH: I'm just concentrating.
EMH2: You don't know what you're doing, do you. This is not a shuttle and we are not on a holodeck.
EMH: Shush.
EMH2: Mister I can leave my ship. The Voice of Experience.
EMH: Let me think. Ah, here it is. This looks like the nacelle power control.
EMH2: So? So?
EMH: There's a little trick I saw Mister Paris do once. If I can generate a slight overload to the nacelle coils, it'll collapse the warp field.
EMH2: What happened?
EMH: I did it. We've stopped. Ah, All we have to do now is find a way to send Starfleet a distress signal and
EMH2: Beep beep beep? Beep beep beep? I've never heard that one before.
EMH: Oh, no.
EMH2: What?
EMH: I'm not sure, but I think whatever I did initiated a warp core overload.
EMH2: You mean the ship's going to explode? You've got to stop it.
EMH: No problem.
EMH2: What now?
EMH: Unless I'm mistaken, and for once I sincerely hope I am, there are three Romulan warbirds on an intercept course.

[Astrometrics lab]
TORRES: We're boosting the signal gain as high as it'll go. I think we can cut through the alien's jamming signal.
HIROGEN (screen): I warned you.
JANEWAY: I apologize for our intrusion. Allow me to explain.
HIROGEN: No explanations.
JANEWAY: Your relay network gave us the unique opportunity to communicate with our people. They are very far away and we're expecting a message back from them.
HIROGEN (screen): All messages will be intercepted.
TORRES: He's trying to jam the link again.
JANEWAY: There must be some room for negotiation. Isn't there anything you might accept in exchange for
JANEWAY: What happened?
SEVEN: I generated a feedback surge along our sensor link.
TORRES: You killed him?
SEVEN: It was a mild shock. He will recover.
JANEWAY: And when he does?
SEVEN: He wasn't responding to diplomacy.
JANEWAY: Is the sensor link stable?
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Keep watching for the Doctor. Let me know if our friend gives us any more trouble.
TORRES: Mild shock? Not bad.
SEVEN: Thank you.

[Sickbay]
KIM: There. I've finished inputting the Doctor's physical characteristics.
PARIS: Let's have a look.
KIM: Computer, activate the Emergency Medical Hologram Replacement Program.
PARIS: Do you think we should give him a little more hair?
KIM: What do you say we try to get him working first, then we can worry about personal grooming.
PARIS: Right. You're the boss. What do we do next?
KIM: I've downloaded the ship's entire medical library and compressed it into a single data file. It's got all the classics, from Gray's Anatomy to Leonard McCoy's Comparative Alien Physiology.
PARIS: And once we transfer all the data into stoneface's matrix, we'll have ourselves a brand new medical expert.
KIM: That's what I'm hoping.
PARIS: Harry, you are a genius.
KIM: Don't congratulate me yet. This is only the first step.
PARIS: Yeah, but it's a step in the right direction.
KIM: I'm telling you, this probably isn't going to work.
PARIS: What happened to all that youthful optimism?
KIM: Being a doctor is a lot more than knowing facts. We still have to create analytical subroutines to help him diagnose patients, tactile protocols so he can perform surgery, not to mention a personality profile.
PARIS: Oh, you know, I've been thinking about that. Maybe we should make this one a little more pleasant than the old doc.
KIM: All right, ready to transfer the data. Computer, transfer medical library master file to Emergency Medical Replacement Hologram.
COMPUTER: Transfer complete.
EMH-R: Chapter one, the animal cell. All the tissues of the body originate from a microscopic structure, the fertilized ovum, which consists of a soft jelly-like material enclosed in a membrane and containing a ves
PARIS: What's he doing?
KIM: I think he's reciting Gray's Anatomy.
EMH-R: This may be regarded as a complete cell.
PARIS: Can you stop him?
KIM: I'm trying.
EMH-R: Similar to it in nature but differing in external form. Paragraph.
PARIS: Listen, this is all very fascinating.
EMH-R: In a higher organism a cell is
PARIS: But would you please be quiet for a minute!
KIM: He doesn't have speech recognition protocols yet.
PARIS: Well give him some, would you?
EMH-R: Material similar to that in the ovum and usually called cytoplasm, and a small spherical
PARIS: What's happening?
KIM: It's an overload. His matrix can't accommodate all the data.
EMH-R: Contain no nuclei
PARIS: What are you doing?
KIM: I'm downloading Gray's Anatomy chapter by chapter.
PARIS: I thought you said it was too much data for his holomatrix to handle.
KIM: It's not for the EMH. It's for you.

[Prometheus Bridge]
EMH2: The Romulan vessels are closing in. Two minutes to intercept. Get us our of here.
EMH: I can't get this ship moving. Try rerouting power to the impulse engines
EMH2: Reroute power, reroute power. Here we go, I think I've found the relay controls. Hey, I'm finally getting the hang of this.
EMH: What's happening?
EMH2: Sorry, I must have transferred power from the holoemitters.
EMH: Well, be more careful. If I'm deactivated, this ship'll never get back to Starfleet.
EMH2: Okay, I'm taking power from life support. We don't need that. Try the engines now.
EMH: Nothing. Why isn't this working?
EMH2: Thirty seconds to intercept. They're right on top of us.
EMH: Hold it. I see the problem. The thrust initiator is offline. Stand by.
EMH2: Fifteen seconds. They're charging weapons.
EMH: See if you can access the shields.
EMH: I said, I said shields!
EMH2: Already done. Shields up.
ALMAK (voiceover): This is the Warbird T'Met calling the Prometheus. Commander Rekar, respond. Commander.
EMH: This is the Prometheus.
ALMAK (voiceover): Activate your viewscreen.
EMH: Our viewscreen is not operational. We've had some trouble with Starfleet commandos.
ALMAK (voiceover): Where's Rekar?
EMH: In the medical bay. He's suffered minor injuries.
ALMAK (voiceover): Identify yourself.
EMH2: You first.
EMH: You first.
ALMAK (voiceover): Repeat your last statement. I don't understand.
EMH: State your identity.
ALMAK (voiceover): This is Sub-Commander Almak. Lower your shields and prepare to be boarded.
EMH: They're already down. Maybe there's something wrong with your sensor readings. You'd better not try to transport until we can be sure it's safe.
ALMAK (voiceover): Lower your shields immediately or I'll open fire.
EMH: Immediately? Yes. Prometheus out.
EMH2: Direct hit. Shields down to twenty percent.
EMH: Three more ships are approaching.
EMH2: We're doomed.
EMH: No. They're Starfleet.
EMH2: What are they doing?
EMH: Firing on us!
EMH2: They must think Romulans are on board.
EMH: They're right!
EMH2: Prometheus to any Starfleet vessel. Respond. Prometheus
EMH: It's no use, they can't hear us. The Romulans have scrambled the comm. frequencies.
EMH2: Doctor, something just went offline.
EMH: Specifically?
EMH2: The secondary gyrodyne relays and the propulsion field intermatrix have depolarized.
EMH: In English. EMH2 I'm just reading what it says here.
EMH: I'll try to stabilize the ship. Transfer auxiliary power to the maneuvering thrusters.
EMH2: Transferring auxiliary power now.
EMH: Good work, mark two.
EMH2: Thanks.
EMH: You'd better get to tactical. We're going to have to defend ourselves.
EMH2: Tactical. Right.
EMH: What are you waiting for? Shoot. Shoot.
EMH2: There are so many controls.
EMH: Find the one that says fire and push it.
EMH2: It's not working. It says here the phasers are offline.
EMH: Well then, fire a torpedo.
EMH: You hit the wrong ship.
EMH2: It wasn't my fault.
EMH: Whose fault was it, the torpedo's? You're supposed to tell it what to do.
EMH: Navigational control is offline.
EMH2: Everything's offline. Weapons, shields.
EMH: It gets worse. There are two Warbirds coming right at us.
EMH2: My brilliant existence cut short. No time to explore the universe, no time to smell the roses. No time for sex.
COMPUTER: Initiating decoupling sequence.
EMH2: What's that? What have I done now?
COMPUTER: Autoseparation in ten seconds.
EMH: Autoseparation? I think the Romulans did this before.
EMH2: How do we turn it off?
EMH: I don't think we can.
COMPUTER: Five. Four. Three. Two.
EMH: If I recall correctly, this next part gets a little bumpy.
COMPUTER: Separation sequence in progress.
EMH: Hold on.
COMPUTER: Specify attack pattern.
EMH: Attack pattern alpha?
COMPUTER: Specify target.
EMH2: Romulans!
EMH2: Bulls-eye! The Warbirds are in retreat. Doctor, we've done it. Two holograms, alone. Romulans on one side, Starfleet on the other. Alarms beeping everywhere.
EMH: EMH mark two, newborn but filled with courage.
EMH2: EMH mark one, armed with years of experience.
EMH: Together they emerged triumphant.
EMH2: The end. Or not.
EMH: Welcome to the Prometheus, gentlemen. It's about time.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I'm receiving a transmission through the sensor network. Origin, the Alpha Quadrant.
TORRES: Does it contain a holographic subroutine?
SEVEN: Yes.
TORRES: Transfer it to Sickbay. Torres to bridge. Captain, I think he's back.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Doctor, report.
EMH: I, I did it.
JANEWAY: You completed the mission?
EMH: Yes. Once the Romulans were out of the way.
TUVOK: Romulans?
EMH: They'd taken over the Prometheus, the ship I was on. But I managed to turn the tables on them with help from a fellow EMH.
CHAKOTAY: You got through to Starfleet?
EMH: I spoke directly with Headquarters. Apparently, Voyager was declared officially lost fourteen months ago. I set the record straight. I told them everything that's happened to this crew. They said they would contact your families to tell them the news and promised that they won't stop until they've found a way to get Voyager back home. And they asked me to relay a message. They wanted you to know you're no longer alone.
JANEWAY: Sixty thousand light years seems a little closer today.

[Bridge]
VOICE (voiceover): USS Voyager. If you are receiving this message, please study it carefully. We have information
JANEWAY: What happened?
KIM: I'm not sure. The transmission just stopped.
JANEWAY: Locate the source. See if you can get it back.
KIM: It looks like. Captain, the transmission was sent along the same network of alien relay stations we used to send the Doctor to the Alpha Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: Starfleet Command must be using them just like we did.
JANEWAY: Harry, can you clear the interference from that message?
KIM: Yes ma'am.
PARIS: They said they wouldn't stop until they found a way to get us home.
TUVOK: Nonetheless, we can't assume they've been able to devise a plan this quickly.
JANEWAY: They're communicating with us. That's a big step.
KIM: Okay, I've reprocessed everything we've received. I've cleared out most of the interference. Here it is.
VOICE (voiceover): This is Starfleet Command to the USS Voyager. If you are receiving this message, please study it carefully. We have information that
KIM: That's all we got. It looks like the bulk of the transmission is lodged in one of the relay stations.
JANEWAY: Can you tell which one? Kim: It's about three point eight light years from us on a heading of two seven four mark one three.
JANEWAY: Set a course, Tom.
CHAKOTAY: Last time we used one of those stations the people who build it weren't too happy.
JANEWAY: We'll deal with that if we have to, but I'm not going to lose this opportunity. We're going to find out what the rest of that message says.

[Hirogen ship]
VOICE (voiceover): This is Starfleet Command to the USS Voyager. If you are receiving this message please study it carefully.
ALPHA: Who sent this message?
BETA: Unknown. It comes from across the galaxy.
ALPHA: Locate the ship receiving it.
BETA: It's on a course to one of our modules.
ALPHA: Intercept.

[Bridge]
KIM: Maybe they've figured out a way to get us home.
PARIS: How can they get us home from sixty thousand light years away?
KIM: Who knows what technological advances Starfleet has come up with since we've been gone. They might have developed a whole new way of traveling through space.
TUVOK: Since it was technology that brought us to the Delta Quadrant in the first place, it's a reasonable assumption. Technology could bring us back again.
CHAKOTAY: Starfleet found a stable wormhole to the Gamma Quadrant. Maybe they've discovered one that leads here.
JANEWAY: This kind of speculation can be intriguing, but be careful about setting yourselves up to be disappointed.
KIM: I'm just happy my folks know I'm alive.
JANEWAY: I imagine there were quite a few celebrations when people got the news.
CHAKOTAY: Probably. But I can see where it might make things more difficult for some. I'd guess a lot of people had given up on us, done their mourning, gone on with their lives, found some kind of resolution. Now they get word that we're alive, but so far away that we might as well be dead.
KIM: Some people might feel that way, but not my mom and dad.
JANEWAY: At the very least, we know the relay stations extend almost all the way to the Alpha Quadrant. If Starfleet has found a way to use them to transmit messages, we'll be able to stay in constant contact with people at home. That has to be comforting.
KIM: I'm sure it is, but I think it's more comforting to think that Starfleet is going to get us home. If no one objects, that's what I'm going to do.

[Astrometrics lab]
EMH: You were supposed to report to Sickbay this morning for your weekly check-up. Where have you been?
SEVEN: Here, doing my job.
EMH: And just what is this pressing task?
SEVEN: I'm trying to retrieve more of the message transmitted from Starfleet Command.
EMH: Your devotion to duty is admirable, but you must remember that your implants have to be monitored regularly.
SEVEN: I'm fine.
EMH: No, you're not. I'm detecting reduced levels of erythrocytes in your blood. How long has it been since you regenerated?
SEVEN: Fifty eight hours
EMH: Well, that explains it. We've discussed this before, Seven. You must regenerate in your alcove for at least three hours a day.
SEVEN: I have gone as long as two hundred hours without regenerating
EMH: That was when you were a Borg. You seem to forget you're a good deal more human now.
SEVEN: I assure you, I have not forgotten. Another one.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
SEVEN: I have retrieved another word of text. That makes six.
EMH: Six words in fifty eight hours? Wouldn't it be more efficient just to wait until we arrive at the relay station?
SEVEN: This message is important to the captain
EMH: I'm aware of that. In fact, if it weren't for me, this transmission wouldn't have been possible in the first place. I was the one who risked my matrix in order to go to the Alpha Quadrant. If we ever get home, I expect I'll become quite the hero. Emergency Medical Hologram instrumental in the return of Voyager crew. Has a nice ring to it, don't you think?
SEVEN: On the other hand, it is entirely possible that your program will be deleted and you'll be upgraded to conform to the most recent standards.
EMH: Unlikely. I've accomplished things no EMH ever has. In fact, most likely I'll become an object of intense study and discussion. Possibly even veneration. What's that?

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: We're encountering some kind of gravimetric forces.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM: Looks like it's coming from the relay station we're heading for.
JANEWAY: That station is still two light years away. How could it project a gravimetric field this far?
CHAKOTAY: It would have to have an incredibly powerful energy source.
KIM: I've compensated for the disturbance. We should be all right. At least until we get closer.
TUVOK: I'm detecting a ship, Captain. Eight hundred thousand kilometers off the port bow.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TUVOK: It's adrift, no propulsion systems, no weapons, no life support.
KIM: I'm picking up one male humanoid aboard. He's dead.
JANEWAY: As soon as we're close enough, beam the body to Sickbay. I want to know how he died.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: What's happened to him?
EMH: He appears to have suffered a complete osteotomy. He's been gutted. Apparently some kind of surgical procedure was used to remove the entire skeleton, as well as the musculature, the ligaments and tendons, and the internal organs.
JANEWAY: How long ago did this happen?
EMH: It's difficult to say. Somewhere between a week and a month.
SEVEN: I've seen this before. The Borg encountered a small ship of species five one seven four. They were also destroyed in this fashion.
EMH: Did you ever determine who did it, and why?
SEVEN: No. It was irrelevant.
JANEWAY: Return the body to his ship. His people may be able to retrieve him.
EMH: Very well.
JANEWAY: When we get closer to the station, we can use the data processors in Astrometrics to download the message.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51501.4. After two days at high warp, we're close enough to the relay station to see it on long range visual sensors.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Not exactly what I expected. It looks ancient.
KIM: Radiometric decay rations indicate it's at least one hundred thousand years old.
CHAKOTAY: Scan for lifeforms.
KIM: Negative, sir. Looks like there's nobody home.
CHAKOTAY: Oh, that's good news.
CHAKOTAY: Here we go again.
TUVOK: The gravimetric field.
KIM: Commander, if my sensors are right, that station is using a quantum singularity as a power source.
PARIS: A black hole?
KIM: It's a tiny one, probably about a centimeter in diameter, but it's putting out almost four terawatts of energy.
CHAKOTAY: That someone's managed to contain a singularity and construct a space station around it and tap it's power. That's fascinating.
PARIS: Can we take the ship any closer?
KIM: I wouldn't recommend it. Voyager would take a beating from the gravimetric eddies.
CHAKOTAY: All right, Tom, back us off.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Janeway.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY: We're as close as we're going to be able to get.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Okay.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: We'll see if we can download the message from here.
SEVEN: The datastream degraded during transmission. Elements have been dislocated, rearranged. It's going to require some time to decompress the message and rearrange it in the proper sequence.
JANEWAY: Don't worry about the sequence. Get it out in bits and pieces if you have to. We can put it together later.
SEVEN: I've accessed a block of data. I'm downloading the text.
JANEWAY: How much we miss you. We talk about you often. Wondering about your day. Sounds awfully personal from Starfleet Command. The children have grown so much you wouldn't. These are letters. These are letters from home.
JANEWAY: You'll be the official mail carrier, Neelix. We'll get you the letters as quickly as we can download them.
NEELIX: A task I'm happy to perform, Captain. I can tell you, I've never seen the crew this excited.
JANEWAY: This is the closest they've come to their families in almost four years.
NEELIX: I promise to treat these like gemstones.
JANEWAY: By the time you've delivered them, we should have more.
SEVEN: Captain. I've discovered something odd. There seems to be more here than just letters.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
SEVEN: There's a latent datastream buried under the message. It's heavily encrypted.
JANEWAY: Encrypted?
SEVEN: It appears to contain a large block of text and what may be maps
JANEWAY: Can you retrieve any of it?
SEVEN: Not immediately. When more of the letters have been cleared out, I should be able to access the coded message.
JANEWAY: Well, I might just hope that it contains a plan for bringing us back to the Alpha Quadrant. I'm curious, Seven. What do you think about all this? Messages, the possibility of getting home?
SEVEN: It lacks any emotional resonance for me. I've never even been to Earth.
JANEWAY: You realize you may have family there?
SEVEN: That had not occurred to me.
JANEWAY: You could have cousins, grandparents. There might be more emotional resonance than you think.

[Bridge]
NEELIX: Ahem. I am happy to announce that I have the first letters from home.
KIM: Who are they for, Neelix?
NEELIX: Ah, this one is addressed to Commander Chakotay. Who's it from, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: An old friend. The person who recruited me into the Maquis. Maybe I'll read this in private. Tom, you have the bridge.
KIM: Neelix, wait a minute. Aren't there any more?
NEELIX: No. No more for the bridge crew. Not yet. Be patient.

[Tuvok's office]
TUVOK: Come in.
NEELIX: Good news, Mister Vulcan. This one's for you.
TUVOK: Thank you, Mister Neelix. You can put it on the desk. Was there something more?
NEELIX: Aren't you going to read it?
TUVOK: Of course.
NEELIX: I, I mean, aren't you going to read it now?
TUVOK: I'm finishing my weekly tactical review. When it's completed, I'll read the message.
NEELIX: You're going to wait until you finish the tactical review?
TUVOK: Do you have any reason to believe the content of the message will change during that time?
NEELIX: That's not the point. It's a letter from your family. Don't you want to know what it says?
TUVOK: I fully intend to find out what it says.
NEELIX: It has some important news.
TUVOK: You mean you've read it?
NEELIX: Well, only the first few lines. When I was seeing who it was addressed to, I, I couldn't help it. Would you like me to read it to you?
TUVOK: Very well.
NEELIX: My husband, we have been given the news that you are alive. Your children and I have asked the priests at the temple of Aymonk to say prayers for your safe return. That's very sweet.
TUVOK: Amonak.
NEELIX: Pardon?
TUVOK: The temple of Amonak. One of the most sacred on Vulcan.
NEELIX: Amonak. Of course. The most significant news is the fact that your first son, Sek, has gone through the Pon Farr. He mated and has become a father. You are now the grandfather of a healthy female who they have named T'Meni, after your mother. You're a grandfather. Isn't that wonderful? Congratulations. What should we call you now? Grandpa? Gramps?
TUVOK: I think Commander Tuvok will suffice. Thank you, Mister Neelix. I'll read the rest to myself.
NEELIX: Just so long as you read it right away. No procrastinating. Who knows what else might be in that letter?

[Bridge]
KIM: Is that a letter to you, Captain?
JANEWAY: Yes. Seven just downloaded it. I'll be in my ready room.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

[Engineering]
CHAKOTAY: Have you gotten a letter yet?
TORRES: Don't expect one.
CHAKOTAY: Do you remember Sveta?
TORRES: Of course.
CHAKOTAY: I got one from her.
TORRES: Why would she be writing you? Chakotay, what is it?
CHAKOTAY: Something terrible has happened. I read that letter for an hour before I could accept it. Now I have to tell everyone else and I'm not sure how to do it. It's over, B'Elanna. There are no more Maquis. (For details, click the link to read DS9 Blaze of Glory)
TORRES: What are you saying? There are thousands of us.
CHAKOTAY: All wiped out. It seems the Cardassians have an ally, a species from the Gamma Quadrant who supplied them with ships and weapons.
TORRES: K'Tarra? Roberto? Everyone except us is dead?
CHAKOTAY: Just about. Sveta and a few lucky ones are in prison.
TORRES: No.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Don't! Don't try to console me. I don't want to be comforted. Those were our friends, good people willing to put their lives on the line for something they believed in and now you're telling me that they are gone, that they are slaughtered.
CHAKOTAY: Those are the risks we all took. We all knew where it could lead.
TORRES: It's not right and you know it. I will make someone pay, I swear I will. If we ever get back.

[Mess hall]
KIM: Tom, I heard there are at least thirty more letters that have been downloaded.
PARIS: Oh yeah?
KIM: Neelix is supposed to on his way here now.
PARIS: What do you suppose this is, anyway?
KIM: What was is?
PARIS: This mystery dish. It tastes vaguely like chicken, but it has the consistency of corn husks.
KIM: Is that all you can think about? What you're eating?
PARIS: Well, I don't like guessing at what I put in my stomach
KIM: Tom, we're getting letters from home. Doesn't that mean anything to you?
PARIS: Not particularly.
KIM: I don't believe you.
PARIS: You know, it's really not that bad.
KIM: Here he comes.
NEELIX: Good news. Seven has been able to download some more letters. This one is for Susan Nicoletti. Is she here?
NICOLETTI: Oh! Yeah.
NEELIX: Fitzpatrick?
FITZPATRICK: Right here.
NICOLETTI: Thank you.
NEELIX: Kyoto? Golwat? Ashmore? Dorado?
DORADO: I'm here.
KIM: There's not going to be one for me
PARIS: He's not done yet. Hang on.
NEELIX: And finally, Parsons. I'm sorry if your name hasn't come up, but Seven is still working.
KIM: Neelix. I thought you had over thirty letters.
NEELIX: Thirty? Where did you hear that?
KIM: That's what was going around.
NEELIX: Don't pay any attention to rumors.
KIM: Right.
PARIS: Aren't you going to eat your lunch?
KIM: I'm not hungry
PARIS: You shouldn't get your hopes up, Harry. No hopes, no disappointments.
KIM: I'm not you.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
SEVEN: Captain, I'm beginning to have trouble accessing the datastream. The longer it remains lodged in the relay station, the more it degrades.
JANEWAY: If we could get near enough we could try to stabilize the containment field. But I can't risk taking the ship in any closer.
SEVEN: A shuttle could withstand the gravimetric eddies more easily than Voyager. I'd like to try it.
JANEWAY: I'd want Commander Tuvok to go with you.
SEVEN: For what reason?
JANEWAY: It isn't my custom to send an away team of one.
SEVEN: As you wish.

[Astrometrics lab]
TORRES: Hi.
KIM: Hi. I thought Seven was working in here.
TORRES: She's gone with Tuvok to shore up the station's confinement field. I've taken over for her. Disappointed?
KIM: Of course not. Would you stop that? I've told you, there's nothing between us.
TORRES: I know there's nothing between you. It's purely a one way attraction.
KIM: Very funny.
TORRES: Harry, you might as well wear a big sign that says, I'm in love. Everyone sees it.
KIM: Look, I'll admit that for a while. Well, she's a very attractive woman, but I've gotten over that.
TORRES: Okay.
KIM: Fine. Believe whatever you want.
TORRES: If you didn't come down here to see her, why did you?
KIM: I wanted to know if I'd gotten a letter yet.
TORRES: Sorry. I haven't seen anything so far.
KIM: Do you think there's going to be one for everybody?
TORRES: I'm sure that Starfleet contacted the families and friends of everyone on the ship. They know how important that would be.
KIM: I hope so.
TORRES: Harry, you'll get one. Try to be patient.

[Shuttlecraft]
SEVEN: Commander, am I correct in assuming that Vulcans are incapable of lying?
TUVOK: We are capable of telling lies. However, I have never found it prudent or necessary to do so.
SEVEN: You have never lied?
TUVOK: Only under orders from a superior officer.
SEVEN: Then I must ask you something. Is it the captain's custom to send at least two people on an away mission?
TUVOK: It's not only her custom, it's recommended Starfleet protocol.
SEVEN: I see.
TUVOK: Is there a purpose to your question?
SEVEN: I am wondering if the captain still doesn't trust me. If she feels I require supervision.
TUVOK: I am not certain how the captain regards you, but her decision to have me accompany you on this mission shouldn't be taken as evidence of any particular attitude.
SEVEN: I believe we are close enough to emit a polaron pulse.
TUVOK: Bring the main deflector online.
SEVEN: Ready.
TUVOK: The variance in the containment field is now at point two nine.
SEVEN: That should prevent further degradation of the signal.
TUVOK: Let me ask you a question, Seven. Is the captain's opinion important to you?
SEVEN: My understanding of the hierarchy on Voyager is that the captain's opinion is important to every member of the crew.
SEVEN: What's happened?
TUVOK: We have just been scanned by a sub-neucleonic beam of some kind.
SEVEN: The navigational sensors have been disrupted.
TUVOK: We must get Voyager to send out a directional beacon to guide us back. Tuvok to Voyager. Voyager, please respond.
SEVEN: Commander, we've lost other systems as well. We have no communications, no warp engines and no weapons.
TUVOK: I suspect this was done intentionally by the ship that's approaching rapidly off out port stern.
SEVEN: They're at fifty thousand kilometers and closing.
TUVOK: Our shields are losing integrity.
SEVEN: I'll try to get at least one phaser array back online. Commander, one more hit and we'll be susceptible to a hull breach.
TUVOK: That ship is larger than ours. If we lure it closer to the station, it will be far more vulnerable to the gravitational eddies than we are. A tractor beam. We are being pulled toward the ship.
SEVEN: I'll try to disrupt it. Unsuccessful.
TUVOK: Launching a distress beacon.

[Astrometrics lab]
TORRES: Torres to the bridge.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
TORRES: Captain, could Lieutenant Paris come

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): Down here? I think I've got something he'd want to see.
JANEWAY: He's on his way.

[Astrometrics lab]
TORRES: It's a letter for you. It's coming through right now.
PARIS: For me?
TORRES: It's right here.
PARIS: Who's it from?
TORRES: I can't tell yet.
PARIS: Maybe it's from the rehab colony, telling me I've violated probation.
TORRES: Why are you acting like this?
PARIS: I just want to know who the letter's from, okay?
TORRES: You should know in a minute.
PARIS: I'll be on the bridge.
TORRES: What, you're not going to wait?
PARIS: I'm on duty.
TORRES: Voyager is hanging in space. There's not a lot to do at the helm.
PARIS: I just thought that I should be at my post.
TORRES: You may be able to fool someone else with that ploy, but you're talking to me, Tom.
PARIS: Just download the letter, okay?
TORRES: A little more has come in. It's from Starfleet. From an Admiral Owen. Do you know him?
PARIS: Admiral Owen Paris. It's my father.
TORRES: That's wonderful.
PARIS: Yeah. Maybe. I don't know exactly why, but the more everybody gets excited about these letters from home, the more I don't want any part of it. Maybe because what I have on Voyager is so much better than anything I ever had back there. I just don't want the reminder.
TORRES: You're not the same person you were four years ago. What makes you think he is?
PARIS: No, you don't know him.
TORRES: At least give him a chance. He's obviously reaching out.
PARIS: When he forms an opinion about something, nothing can change his mind.
TORRES: Fine. Excuse me if I can't feel terribly sorry for you. I learned this morning that a lot of my friends are dead. And I've gone from being so angry that I wanted to kill someone to crying for an hour. And now I'm just trying to, to accept it and move on.
PARIS: B'Elanna, that's awful. I am so sorry. And here I am going on about something that doesn't even matter anymore.
TORRES: No, I'm sorry. It obviously does. You care what he thinks about you.
PARIS: Yeah. Yeah, I guess I still do.
TORRES: I'll let you know when I get the whole letter.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like Tuvok and Seven pulled it off. The containment field has stabilized quite a bit. B'Elanna says she'd downloading the letters much more easily now.
JANEWAY: That's good news.
CHAKOTAY: We don't have the shuttle on sensors yet, but they should be back soon.
JANEWAY: I've learned a few interesting things about that relay station. It's generating as much energy every minute as a typical star puts out in a year.
CHAKOTAY: It's amazing to me is that someone a hundred thousand years ago was harvesting microsingularities.
JANEWAY: If nobody shows up to protest, I'd like to stay here for a while. Try to find the answers to some of these questions. This is the kind of archeological puzzle that's always fascinated me. Want a cup?
CHAKOTAY: No, thanks. You haven't mentioned your letter. Who was it from?
JANEWAY: It was from Mark, the man I was engaged to. He told me about the litter of puppies my dog had, and how he found homes for them. How devastated he was when Voyager was lost. How he held out hopes we were alive longer than most people did until he realized that he was clinging to a fantasy. So he began living his life again. Meeting people, letting go of the past. About four months ago, he married a woman who works with him. He's very happy.
CHAKOTAY: How do you feel about that?
JANEWAY: Well, I knew he'd eventually move on with his life. But there was such a finality to that letter.
KIM (voiceover): Kim to the captain. Can you come to the bridge?

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What is it?
KIM: We've picked up an automated distress signal from Tuvok's shuttle. Sensors show there's no one on board.

[Hirogen ship]
TUVOK: Seven. Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Where are we?
TUVOK: I assume we're on the alien ship.
SEVEN: This is most uncomfortable. Have you seen anyone?
TUVOK: No. If we can reach one of those blades perhaps we can cut through these bindings.
ALPHA: You were pathetic prey. Easily taken.
ALPHA: The hunt was not satisfying. I want information. Why do you violate our property? I could snap your puny neck with one twist. Hardly worth taking. Answer me. Why do you use our modules?
TUVOK: We're trying to retrieve important messages from our home. Return us to our ship and we'll be on our way without trespassing again.
ALPHA: I took you in a fair hunt. I claim the relics of the chase.
ALPHA: Are the others on your ship able to put up more of a fight than you?
SEVEN: You will find our captain a formidable opponent and our ship heavily armed.
ALPHA: Good. Strong prey makes for a better hunt.
TUVOK: Release us now and you'll be safe. Otherwise we will destroy you.
BETA: Pitiful relics.
ALPHA: They 'are the first of their kind. I will be envied.
BETA: I've located their ship. It's four thousand ketriks from the module.
ALPHA: We'll be there within the hour. Go to stalking mode. Why do you hesitate?
BETA: The rest of the group is on its way.
ALPHA: I wanted to claim this prey for myself.
BETA: We may not be able to take them alone. We need the strength of the others.
ALPHA: I won't share prey with the others. These two must be the only relics. Prepare them.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, it's tricky to scan through the interference, but I think I'm detecting a ship.
JANEWAY: What kind of ship?
KIM: Let me reconfigure the sensor array. It's Hirogen, and Tuvok and Seven are on it.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
KIM: On screen.
JANEWAY: I'm Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager. You have two of my crew on board.
ALPHA (screen): Disconnect your link with our module and leave this space.
JANEWAY: Not without my people.
ALPHA (screen): They are my relics.
JANEWAY: I'm prepared to offer you something for their safe return. Surely we can come to an agreement?
ALPHA (screen): If the rest of my group arrives, you will be taken as well. I'm giving you a chance to run.
JANEWAY: We don't run.
KIM: Captain, I've got three more ships on sensors, coming towards us at high warp.
ALPHA (screen): Don't be foolish. Leave now and save yourselves.
JANEWAY: Give me my people and we'll do just that.
ALPHA (screen): They're mine.
JANEWAY: Then get ready for a fight. Red alert.

[Hirogen ship]
ALPHA: Are they prepared?
BETA: Yes. But now is not the time for it. We should wait until the others arrive and take the ship.
ALPHA: I want to make the first kill. You will verify it.
BETA: If there's a battle, we must join it.
ALPHA: The others can wage the battle.
BETA: Perhaps you are more interested in collecting relics. Perhaps your judgment is clouded.
ALPHA: Don't question me again. We do it now.
TUVOK: I suggest you think carefully about your decision. If you kill us, our captain will hunt you down and show no mercy.
ALPHA: I'm not concerned. Lower the harness. A long, coiled intestine. An interesting trophy.
SEVEN: What possible use could you make of my intestines?
ALPHA: Unusual relics are prized. Yours will make me envied by men and pursued by women.
SEVEN: You are a crude species. Only your size makes you formidable.
ALPHA: Your insults are as pitiful as your efforts to escape. This one first. I want the female to witness what will happen to her. Their bone structure makes cutting through the back difficult. This will take time.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Bridge to Torres.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres here, Captain.
JANEWAY: How much longer?

[Astrometrics lab]
TORRES: I'm getting out piece by piece. At least another half hour.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: How are you coming?
KIM: The ship has some kind of monotanium armor plating. It's scattering the targeting beam.
CHAKOTAY: The other three ships are closing. They're within six thousand kilometers.
PARIS: Captain, those ships have massive weapons. They've definitely got us outgunned.
JANEWAY: Harry, let me see those ships in relation to the relay station.
KIM: Yes ma'am.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can use that quantum singularity to our advantage.
KIM: How?
JANEWAY: If we can boost the effect of the singularity, increase the gravitational pull, we might be able to stop them.
KIM: The pull would increase if we could weaken the station's containment field. An antithoron burst might do it.
PARIS: If we're not careful we might be pulled in as well.
JANEWAY: Don't worry, we're going to be ready for it. Harry, create a low level warp field around Voyager. Sublight energy level. That should help counteract the gravitational pull.
CHAKOTAY: If the field is too strong, we won't be able to beam Tuvok and Seven aboard.
JANEWAY: Then you'll have to find the right balance, won't you, Harry?
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: On my mark, direct a level eight antithoron burst towards the station. Have thrusters ready for full reverse, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Understood.
KIM: I've established a low level warp field, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Antithoron system is online.
PARIS: I'm ready with thrusters.
JANEWAY: Do it.
CHAKOTAY: It's working.
JANEWAY: Try the transporter lock again, Harry.

[Hirogen ship]
ALPHA: Stabilize the ship.
BETA: I can't. The gravity well is pulling us in.
BETA: That vessel is weakening the module's containment field.
ALPHA: Ready weapons. Signal the others to attack/

[Astrometrics lab]
TORRES: Torres to the bridge.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
TORRES: The antithoron burst collapsed

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): The signal. I've gotten as much of the message as I'm going to get.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Hail those ships.
KIM: Channel open.
JANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway. Agree to retreat, and we'll restore the containment field.
PARIS: Captain, they're firing.
CHAKOTAY: Their weapons are destabilizing the containment field.
JANEWAY: This is Janeway. Stop firing. You're putting yourselves in grave danger.
KIM: The field is going. The singularity is about to be exposed.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, the ship with Tuvok and Seven is still being pulled in.
JANEWAY: Get a tractor beam on it.
KIM: I have Tuvok and Seven targeted, but if we try to transport them now the gravity well could scatter their patterns.
CHAKOTAY: The tractor beam is weakening. We're going to lose them.
JANEWAY: Harry, we have to risk it.
KIM: Activating the transporter.

[Hirogen ship]
ALPHA: Full reverse. Increase power to the engine.
BETA: No response.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Do you have them?
KIM: Not yet. Their patterns are distorting.
JANEWAY: Narrow the annular confinement beam.
CHAKOTAY: Tractor beam's almost gone, Captain. We're losing this tug of war.
JANEWAY: Reroute all secondary power to the tractor emitters.
CHAKOTAY: The tractor beam collapsed. That ship is headed into the black hole.
KIM: I'm realigning the pattern buffer. I've got one more shot at it. I got them. They're in transporter room two.
PARIS: I need more power. We're being pulled in.
JANEWAY: Transfer all available power to the engines.
PARIS: It's not enough.
JANEWAY: Shut down life support.
CHAKOTAY: Structural integrity's failing. The hull is starting to buckle.
PARIS: We're going in.
JANEWAY: Open the antimatter injectors to one hundred twenty percent.
KIM: Captain, that could breach the core.
JANEWAY: So will that black hole. Now just do it.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
PARIS: We're free.
JANEWAY: Resume course. I'll be in Astrometrics.

[Astrometrics lab]
TORRES: Captain, look at this. The energy released from the singularity created a massive discharge along the relay network. It disabled every one of the stations.
JANEWAY: How much of the message were you able to get?
TORRES: I got most of the encrypted Starfleet text and a few more personal letters.
JANEWAY: How soon can we see what Starfleet had to say?
TORRES: It'll take some time to decode. Harry should probably work on it. If you'll excuse me, I have a few letters to deliver.
JANEWAY: Neelix can do that.
TORRES: No need. Anyway, there's one that I want to do personally.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Good news, Harry. I got this at the last minute.
KIM: It's from my folks. Thanks.
TORRES: I'm sorry, Tom. I wasn't able to download yours in time.
PARIS: Just when I was getting eager to read it.
TORRES: You could assume that he said he loves you, and that he's proud of you.
PARIS: I think I will.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Seven of Nine and Commander Tuvok suffered no serious physical damage after their encounter on the alien ship. I've been eager to hear Tuvok's impressions of the species who took them hostage.

[Ready room]
TUVOK: I learned very little about them, but I believe we should consider them extremely dangerous. They seem to lack any moral center.
JANEWAY: Do you know why the relay network was so important to them?
TUVOK: No. I assume they used it for communications, as we did.
JANEWAY: Well, they won't be using it any more.
TUVOK: They won't be pleased about that, Captain. I doubt we've seen the last of them.
JANEWAY: Come in.
TUVOK: If you'll excuse me. Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Repair teams have inspected the ship from stem to stern. Except for some maintenance that's needed on the warp coils, everything seems fine.
JANEWAY: I suppose so. Want some coffee?
CHAKOTAY: Thanks.
JANEWAY: Cream and sugar, huh?
CHAKOTAY: Two sugars.
JANEWAY: Oh, two sugars?
CHAKOTAY: You know, you drink too much of that stuff.
JANEWAY: Really?
CHAKOTAY: If I'm not mistaken that's your third cup this morning.
JANEWAY: Fourth. And on a day like today, it won't be my last. Coffee - the finest organic suspension ever devised. It's got me through the worst of the last three years. I beat the Borg with it. Oh, I'm sure Voyager will be fine, but I'm worried that the crew might be a different story. I think they were hoping mail call would become a regular part of their day.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix is putting together an impromptu party. He thought it might cheer them up.
JANEWAY: Good idea. When will it be?
CHAKOTAY: As soon as he can get people together.
JANEWAY: Leave it to Neelix to come up with the right idea at the right time.
CHAKOTAY: How are you doing?
JANEWAY: Me? I'm fine.
CHAKOTAY: You'd say that if you'd just had your legs torn off by a Traykan Beast. Look what you've been through in the last few days. We finally make a connection with home and then it's ripped away from us. We manage to make another enemy who's going to try and hunt us down and destroy us, and on top of that
JANEWAY: It's all right. You can say it. On top of all that, I got a Dear John letter. It wasn't really a surprise. I guess I didn't really expect him to wait for me considering the circumstances. It made me realize that I was using him as a safety net, you know, as a way to avoid becoming involved with someone else.
CHAKOTAY: You don't have that safety net any more.
JANEWAY: That's right. Then again, my life is far from uneventful here in the Delta Quadrant. It's not like I would have had a chance to pursue a relationship, even if I had realized I was alone.
CHAKOTAY: You're hardly alone, and to my way of thinking, there's still plenty of time.
JANEWAY: Plenty of time.
NEELIX: Neelix to the ready room. The party's about to begin and there are only two people missing.
JANEWAY: We're on our way.

[Hirogen ship]
HUNTER: The prey's course has become erratic. I will intercept to kill.
ALPHA: No. Maintain distance. His ship is damaged. He's injured. Let him bleed.
HUNTER: This prey is resilient. We will lose the moment.
ALPHA: The way a creature behaves when it is wounded is the key to it's destruction. Maintain distance.
HUNTER: Direct hit. Our hull armor is stable.
ALPHA: His weapons must be weakening.
HUNTER: The prey is heading for an asteroid belt, vector one six eight point nine. We are losing him.
ALPHA: He hasn't come here to hide. He's come to make a final stand.
HUNTER: Tracking. He's holding position above an asteroid and he's left his ship.
ALPHA: Follow him.

[Caves]
HUNTER: The prey is scattering our sensors.
ALPHA: Impressive. He counters out pursuit to the final moment.
HUNTER: Compensating.
ALPHA: No. Disengage sensors.
HUNTER: For what reason?
ALPHA: I want to take him with my own eyes. Follow. I'll draw his attack. Prepare to target his thoracic crest.
ALPHA: A flawless kill.

[Doctor's office]
SEVEN: Please remain still so that I can treat your injuries. Thank you. I'm sorry, did that hurt? I'll try to be more careful. Thanks for being a patient patient. Have a pleasant afternoon. This is absurd.
EMH: Not at all. Keep going, you're doing fine.
SEVEN: This vernacular is not applicable to my duties on Voyager.
EMH: We can tailor the vocabulary to your specific situations a little later. Right now, it's the sentiment that counts.
SEVEN: I don't see the relevance.
EMH: I created these exercises three years ago to familiarize myself with the social graces. I found that if I repeated them several times each day, the words became almost second nature. Let's continue. Exercise two, The Workplace Encounter. Kes used to help me with this one. Now I'll be the nurse, you be the doctor.
SEVEN: Please hand me the hypospray.
EMH: Of course, Doctor, immediately.
SEVEN: Thank you. Looks at instrument.
EMH: No, no, don't read that part, only the dialogue.
SEVEN: Excuse me, nurse. This is the wrong hypospray. Would you mind finding the correct one.
EMH: Not at all.
SEVEN: Thank you. Did I mention you look lovely today?
EMH: Oh, doctor, you're so charming.
SEVEN: This lesson is terminated.

[Medical lab]
EMH: I know it's awkward. For me, it was even painful, but you'll find the rewards are well worth the effort.
SEVEN: Rewards?
EMH: The ability to put others at ease, make them feel more comfortable around you. You're a lot like me when I was first activated. If I'd had a mentor, things would have gone a lot more smoothly. I'm willing to share my wisdom but, if you're not interested, fine, I'll stick to your physiological maintenance.
SEVEN: I will examine your data.
EMH: Oh, good. Pay special attention to exercise seventeen, Bridge Banter for Beginners.
SEVEN: Have a pleasant day.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Verify.
TUVOK: Monotanium hull plating, dicyclic warp signature. The vessel is definitely Hirogen.
CHAKOTAY: They're moving to intercept.
PARIS: Evasive maneuvers?
JANEWAY: No. We need to settle our differences here and now. Hard about, full impulse.
CHAKOTAY: Red alert.
KIM: They're in visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen. Hail them.
TUVOK: No response.
PARIS: They're closing. Fifty thousand kilometers, forty five, forty.
JANEWAY: Maintain course, Mister Paris.
TUVOK: Curious. They are not charging weapons.
PARIS: They're slowing, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Lifesigns?
TUVOK: Only one, and it's erratic.
PARIS: They've stopped, Captain. Their engines just went offline.
CHAKOTAY: This could be a trap.
JANEWAY: Harry, run a long range scan. Are there any other Hirogen ships out there?
KIM: None.
JANEWAY: Take us within transporter range.
SEVEN: You intend to board their ship?
JANEWAY: Yes.
SEVEN: The Hirogen vessel is a potential threat. We should destroy it.
JANEWAY: Seven, what you call a threat, I call an opportunity to gain knowledge about this species. And in this case, maybe even show some compassion. There seems to be a wounded pilot over there.
SEVEN: Our experience with the Hirogen indicates that compassion would not be reciprocated.
JANEWAY: And all of my experience says we've got to take that chance anyway. Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, Paris, you're with me.

[Hirogen ship]
PARIS: Looks like there was a fight.
CHAKOTAY: Search for the lifesigns.
TUVOK: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading bones, muscle tissue, from at least nine different species. It's all being broken down by some sort of enzyme.
TUVOK: Perhaps this is their method of denaturating their prey.
CHAKOTAY: Either that or it's dinner.
PARIS: Looks like somebody lost their helmet. Urgh!
PARIS: Commander. I'm not picking up any weapon residuals. I'd say he was physically torn apart.
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking up the lifesigns. This way.
CHAKOTAY: Massive internal bleeding. Let's get him to Sickbay.

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: The data we downloaded from the ship's computer included navigational records. Can you give us a map of this region?
TUVOK: The is the Hirogen vessel's flightpath over the past five years.
JANEWAY: They've certainly covered a lot of space.
TUVOK: This ship alone has visited over ninety star systems in the last year.
CHAKOTAY: I analyzed some of their logs. From what I can tell, this is a hunting species. We saw the skeletal remains from dozens of alien races displayed like trophies. There was also evidence they may be using some of their victims for food. The entire culture seems to be based on the hunt. Social rituals, art, religious beliefs. They're nomadic. Their existence is driven by the pursuit of prey and it's carried them across huge distances.
TUVOK: There is no evidence of a home planet. Their ships travel alone or in small groups. On occasion, several will join forces in a multi-pronged attack.
CHAKOTAY: Like wolves.
JANEWAY: How's our wolf in Sickbay?
TUVOK: Still unconscious, behind a level five forcefield
JANEWAY: You were right, Seven. This species is a threat. But despite the risk of sending an away team, we know a lot more about who we're dealing with now.
SEVEN: You were correct, Captain. It was worth the risk. This time.
JANEWAY: So there's one question remaining. Who's hunting the hunters?

[Sickbay]
EMH: I was trying to remove his body armor to treat the internal injuries when he suddenly regained consciousness. Needless to say he's not happy to be here.
JANEWAY: Can you sedate him?
EMH: I've already tried. His immune system neutralizes everything. I could synthesize a more potent compound, but that would take hours. He could be dead by then. His wounds are severe.
JANEWAY: Your crewmate is dead, and your ship has been damaged beyond repair. I brought you here to treat your injuries. What happened to your ship? Who attacked you? The first time I met your species it wasn't on the best of terms, but that doesn't mean you and I can't find a way to change that.
ALPHA: Our prey.
JANEWAY: You were on a hunt?
ALPHA: Yes. A formidable alien. We captured it two days ago, but it broke free of its restraints, attacked us. Release me. I must continue the hunt.
JANEWAY: Not without your ship, and not in this condition. You'll die without treatment. Let us help you.
JANEWAY: Doctor?
EMH: All right. I'm going to enter the forcefield now and start with a few scans of your midsection. You should know I'm a hologram and can't be bent, spindled or mutilated, so don't bother trying. Please lie down. Or remain standing.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we've detected six more Hirogen ships. They're converging on us from all directions.
TUVOK: The one in Sickbay may have sent a distress call from his vessel.
JANEWAY: How long do we have?
CHAKOTAY: The nearest ship is half a light year away. Four hours at most.
JANEWAY: Tom, analyze their approach pattern. Evade them as long as you can.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: I want to buy the Doctor enough time to treat our hunter. If I gain his confidence, he might call off his friends. Good old-fashioned diplomacy could get us out of this yet.
CHAKOTAY: Don't count on it. From what I found in their database, diplomacy isn't a part of their lifestyle. They don't see us as equals. To them, we're simply game.
JANEWAY: It's time we convince them otherwise, or like any other cornered animal, we'll show our teeth.
TUVOK: There's been a hull rupture on deck eleven, section three. Damage is minor. It appears a plasma conduit overloaded.
CHAKOTAY: Increase power to the structural integrity field.
TUVOK: A bulkhead has collapsed in Jefferies tube eighty four.
CHAKOTAY: Another overload?
KIM: Negative. The plasma network is stable. This wasn't caused by any power surge or system failure.
JANEWAY: Harry, Tuvok, get to deck eleven and check it out.

[Jefferies tube 84]
KIM: This was no overload.
TUVOK: Indeed.
KIM: Commander.
TUVOK: It's a dense mixture of DNA and polyfluidic compounds. Tuvok to bridge.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
TUVOK: We may have an intruder aboard.

[Bridge]
TUVOK (voiceover): I'm analyzing what could be a sample of its blood. The readings are consistent with species 8472.
JANEWAY: Intruder alert. Bridge to Security, seal off decks ten through twelve.
CHAKOTAY: Internal sensors aren't detecting any intruders.
JANEWAY: The last time we ran into this species, it was impervious to our scanners. We'll have to track it visually.
PARIS: How did it get past our shields?
JANEWAY: We'll worry about that later. You have the bridge, Commander. I'll be on deck eleven.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: I've erected a level ten forcefield around Engineering.
TORRES: Good. Set up secondary forcefields around every hatch, Jefferies tube and conduit leading into this room. I want every one of these consoles secured. Authorized command codes only. I'm going to lock down the warp core. Ensign, realign the dilithium matrix to a frequency of three point six nine
JANEWAY: Report.
SEVEN: Four crewmembers are wounded, two seriously.
JANEWAY: Get them to Sickbay.
SEVEN: Species 8472 accessed engineering through the antimatter injector port. Our phaser fire was insufficient. It attacked us then escaped through Jefferies tube seventeen alpha.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok here.
JANEWAY: The intruder just left Engineering. Seal off the area.
TUVOK (voiceover): Understood.
JANEWAY: Secure the warp core.
CREWWOMAN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Seven.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: It would seem that the Hirogen underestimated their latest prey.
SEVEN: You believe they were hunting the creature?
JANEWAY: Yes. When the Borg were fighting Species 8472, did they ever engage in physical combat?
SEVEN: On many occasions.
JANEWAY: Can you recall anything that might help us here?
SEVEN: Each time they boarded a Borg vessel, they went directly to the central power matrix and disabled it.
JANEWAY: The creature was just in Engineering. Didn't touch any of our power systems.
SEVEN: It's obviously adjusted its strategy. Species 8472 is devious and highly intelligent. It will seek the most efficient means of destroying us.
JANEWAY: Let's get to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: She's going to be just fine, Captain.
JANEWAY: Is it alone? Have you seen any others like it?
ALPHA: Why?
CHAKOTAY: Six months ago, this species invaded our galaxy with thousands of ships. We were barely able to fight them off.
JANEWAY: Your prey could indicate another invasion. If it does, we're all in trouble. How many ships have you seen?
ALPHA: Only one. Damaged. We tracked it across fifty light years. We thought that we had killed the creature, but this prey is unlike any other. It has many lives. Lower the forcefield and I will finish the hunt.
SEVEN: Your attempt to destroy it will fail. Species 8472 is highly resistant to all technology. All but one. Borg nanoprobes.
ALPHA: Nanoprobes?
CHAKOTAY: Microscopic weapons that can attack the species on a cellular level. We've tried it before and it worked.
SEVEN: I'll modify the phaser rifles to fire nanoprobe discharges.
JANEWAY: I want you to incapacitate the creature, not kill it. Can you make that modification?
SEVEN: Yes, but it would require additional time. We must stop it as soon as possible.
ALPHA: She's right.
JANEWAY: Not until we know why it returned.
SEVEN: You will be exposing this crew to unnecessary risk.
JANEWAY: I disagree.
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: You have your orders, Seven. Six of your vessels will be here in under four hours. I hope you'll let them know that we saved your life and that we want to avoid any further conflict with your people.
ALPHA: Let me resume the hunt, and I will grant your request.
CHAKOTAY: We have enough problems on this ship as it is without him running around.
ALPHA: I spent six months studying this prey's behavior. I know how to track him. Let me continue, or I will have the others destroy you.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.

[Deck 11]
TUVOK: We're holding position in section ninety four, but the creature has accessed the environmental controls. Deck eleven is losing life support. Artificial gravity has also been compromised.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Evacuate the deck.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Regroup on deck ten.
TUVOK (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
ALPHA: He's trying to barricade himself. He did the same thing to us.
JANEWAY: You want to be part of the hunt? Now's your chance. He'll be under your supervision, Commander. If he steps out of line, shoot him.
ALPHA: My weapon.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Temperature gradient.
PARIS: Affirmative.
CHAKOTAY: Atmospheric recyclers.
PARIS: Engaged.
CHAKOTAY: Is your body armor designed to handle rapid pressure fluctuations?
ALPHA: It can defeat most hostile environments. I once tracked a silicon-based lifeform through the neutronium mantle of a collapsed star.
PARIS: I once tracked a mouse through Jefferies tube thirty two.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Tuvok. We're ready to go.

[Another corridor]
TUVOK: As are we.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Proceed to deck eleven, Keep you comm. links open.
TUVOK: Understood. Activate the nanoprobe charges.
SEVEN: Level five should be sufficient to stun the creature.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Depressurizing hatch. Magnetize.

[Corridor - Deck 11]
CHAKOTAY: Maintain your position.
ALPHA: He's here.
CHAKOTAY: I said maintain your position. This is my hunt. I'm at point.
ALPHA: My knowledge of this prey is superior you yours.
CHAKOTAY: But you're on unfamiliar terrain. I know this ship, you don't.
ALPHA: The prey will likely attack the man at point. You would not survive.
CHAKOTAY: I'll take that chance. Now fall back.
PARIS: No problem. I'll take up the rear.
TUVOK: You missed. Since species 8472 invaded the ship, you've become increasingly agitated.
SEVEN: They were the only species to offer true resistance to the Borg. They destroyed millions of drones, hundreds of our worlds. I have reason to be agitated.
PARIS: What is it?
ALPHA: It's blood. The prey is wounded.
CHAKOTAY: This corridor ends about twenty meters ahead.
PARIS: The only thing down there is Deflector Control. It's got nowhere to run.
ALPHA: He's not planning to run. He's waiting. He'll attempt to slip around us, attack from behind.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Tuvok.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok here.
CHAKOTAY: We've cornered the intruder in section fifty nine.
TUVOK: On our way.
CHAKOTAY: It's hurt.
ALPHA: This prey is resilient. He will strike with his dying breath. We must kill him now.
CHAKOTAY: That may not be necessary. Hold your fire. I said, lower your weapon.

[Mess hall]
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, I must ask you to exchange your spatula for a phaser rifle.
NEELIX: Sure.
TUVOK: We have two intruders on board and six Hirogen vessels on the way. I need additional security personnel.
NEELIX: Right away, sir. What's my assignment?
TUVOK: Join the security detail on deck ten, section twelve. You'll receive further instructions then. I'll expect tactical updates every twenty minutes.
NEELIX: Lieutenant? Are you all right?
TUVOK: You have your orders.

[Deck 11]
JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: The Hirogen's back in Sickbay, within a forcefield.
JANEWAY: And Species 8472?
CHAKOTAY: We've established a security perimeter. Basically, we've turned this entire section into a brig.
JANEWAY: As an added precaution, have B'Elanna start working on a way to lock onto the creature, in case we have to beam it off the ship. You mentioned it was injured. In what way?
EMH: I wish I could tell you for certain. It's body is generating some sort of bioelectric field making it impossible to scan, so I could only make a visual diagnosis. It's conscious but immobile. Its epidermis displays any number of injuries, punctures, energy burns. And its demeanor is that of a wounded animal.
JANEWAY: The Hirogen said they've been chasing it for several months. Is there anything you can do?
EMH: I don't know enough about it's physiognomy to treat it's surface wounds, let alone any internal damage. Frankly, I'm at a loss.
PARIS: Captain, just before we cornered it, Species 8472 accessed Deflector Control from this panel.
SEVEN: I've analyzed the transmission protocols. It was attempting to open a singularity into it's realm, but it failed.
JANEWAY: It was trying to get home.
PARIS: That's what it looks like.
JANEWAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: The creature initiated telepathic contact with me.
JANEWAY: What's it saying?
TUVOK: It's ship was damaged during the conflict with the Borg. When the other members of its species retreated into fluidic space, it was left behind. It has been trapped in the Delta Quadrant ever since. Alone, pursued by Hirogen hunting parties. It has no desire for further conflict. It only wants to return to its domain. It is dying, Captain.
JANEWAY: You have nothing to be afraid of. We're going to help you get back to your realm. Does it understand?
TUVOK: It does.
JANEWAY: It will take time to open a singularity and we have no way of treating your injuries, but if there's anything you can tell us about your
TUVOK: It has lost consciousness. Our telepathic link has been severed.

[Sickbay]
ALPHA: Where is my prey?
JANEWAY: Lying at the end of a corridor on deck eleven. Nearly dead, thanks to you.
ALPHA: Take me to it.
JANEWAY: No.
ALPHA: Take me to it!
JANEWAY: In less than three hours, your ships will arrive. By that time, Species 8472 will no longer be on Voyager.
ALPHA: What do you mean?
JANEWAY: I'm sending it back where it came from.
ALPHA: Surrender the creature to me and you will not be harmed.
JANEWAY: This isn't a hunt, it's a slaughter, and I'm calling it off right now.
ALPHA: We will not be denied our prey. Give us the creature, or your crew will take its place.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Have Seven of Nine report to my ready room.
TUVOK: You intend to ask her to open a rift into 8472's realm.
JANEWAY: She's the only one on board who knows how.
TUVOK: Given her feelings towards the species, she may not want to cooperate.
JANEWAY: We'll see.

[Ready room]
SEVEN: You wish to see me, Captain?
JANEWAY: I've made a decision about Species 8472. I'm going to return it to fluidic space. In order to do that, I need you to open a quantum singularity.
SEVEN: I don't believe that is a prudent course of action.
JANEWAY: I realize it may be difficult for you to help save this creature's life, but part of becoming human is learning to have compassion for those who are suffering, even when they're your bitter enemies.
SEVEN: Why?
JANEWAY: I remember when I was a Lieutenant. It was during a Cardassian border conflict. My away team was cut off while we were defending a Federation outpost. We'd been exchanging phaser fire with a group of Cardassians for about three days. A stalemate. One night, during a break in the fighting, we could hear this low moaning sound coming from somewhere in the brush. We knew that none of our people were out there, so it had to be a wounded Cardassian. You have to understand, we'd been killing each other for weeks on this planet. It was brutal. But our commanding officer decided that we couldn't just sit there and listen to that poor man suffer. So he ordered me and an Ensign to crawl out there and bring that Cardassian back to our camp. I thought he was crazy. He was risking our lives for someone who would have shot us without hesitation. But we did it, and the Cardassian lived. Three days later we secured the outpost. It was a major victory. We were all decorated by Starfleet Command. But in retrospect, the thing I'm most proud of was the night we saved that man's life.
SEVEN: Explain.
JANEWAY: A single act of compassion can put you in touch with your own humanity.
SEVEN: You are trying to justify your present decision.
JANEWAY: No, I'm trying to help you see this as an opportunity to grow. I know you don't want to do it, Seven, but I'm telling you as your Captain, and as your friend, you won't regret it.
SEVEN: No. Your decision is tactically unsound. We will be surrounded by Hirogen ships in approximately two hours. If we do not surrender the creature, they will destroy us. A lesson in compassion will do me little good if I am dead.
JANEWAY: It is wrong to sacrifice another being to save our own lives.
SEVEN: I have observed that you have been willing to sacrifice your own life to save the lives of your crew.
JANEWAY: Yes, but that's different. That was my choice. This creature does not have a choice.
SEVEN: It invaded our ship, put our lives at risk to save its own. In my view, it has already forfeited its freedom.
JANEWAY: I'm giving you an order. Report to Deflector Control and begin working on creating a singularity.
SEVEN: I will not comply. I have agreed to remain on Voyager. I have agreed to function as a member of your crew. But I will not be a willing participant in my own destruction or the destruction of this ship.
JANEWAY: Objection noted. We'll do this without you.
SEVEN: You will fail.
JANEWAY: And you have just crossed the line. End of debate. Report to the Cargo Bay and remain there until this is over. Is that understood?

[Bridge]
KIM: Shields down to eighty four percent.
JANEWAY: Return fire.
PARIS: Three more ships are closing from port and starboard. All escape trajectories have been cut off.
TUVOK: Our weapons are having little effect on their hull plating. I'm scanning for weaknesses in the molecular structure.
KIM: Shields at seventy nine percent.
TUVOK: They are hailing us.
JANEWAY: Better late than never. Open a channel.
HIROGEN (screen): You've taken our prey and one of our hunters. Surrender them.
JANEWAY: Call off your attack and we'll return your crewman. As for your prey, it's under our protection now.
HIROGEN: It belongs to us.
JANEWAY: It belongs to no one. Now order your ships to withdraw and this can end peacefully.
TUVOK: All vessels are firing.
CHAKOTAY: Any luck finding a crack in their armor?
TUVOK: Not yet.

[Deck 11]
EMH: Doctor to bridge. Species 8472 appears to be regenerating. I'm no exobiologist, but I'd say this fellow is becoming highly agitated.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: It could be sensing the Hirogen attack.
JANEWAY: Doctor, can you sedate it?
EMH (voiceover): I believe so, but I'll need another dose of Borg nanoprobes.
JANEWAY: Stand by. Bridge to Seven of Nine.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Report to deck eleven immediately with a supply of nanoprobes.
SEVEN: Understood.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, how's it going down there?

[Engineering]
TORRES: Transporters are ready. I can establish a lock on the creature at any time, but I still haven't duplicated the deflector protocols to open a singularity.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): How long?
TORRES: I need another hour, maybe two.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Captain, we can outmaneuver the Hirogen ships for a few more minutes, but beyond that
KIM: Direct hit to the EPS manifold. Main power just went down.
TUVOK: Forcefields on all decks are offline.
CHAKOTAY: Switch to auxiliary power.
KIM: Done. Forcefields have been restored but I don't know how long they'll hold.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Doctor. Report.

[Deck 11]
EMH: It's all right, Captain. The creature is contained.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Sickbay. Security, respond.
CHAKOTAY: Security, dispatch teams to deck five. The Hirogen may be loose.
PARIS: Direct hit to our port nacelle. Now they've taken out our starboard nacelle.
JANEWAY: They've crippled us. Tuvok, divert warp power to the phaser banks. Maybe that'll help us penetrate their hull plating.

[Deck 11]
EMH: The nanoprobes?
SEVEN: Armed and ready.
EMH: Not a moment too soon.
ALPHA: Give me the prey.
SEVEN: Lower your weapon or I will destroy you.
ALPHA: I don't think you will. You want me to destroy this creature. I saw it on your face earlier in the medical bay. It's a look I've seen a thousand times. Stand aside.
EMH: What are you doing?

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, someone's accessing the transporter system from deck five.
JANEWAY: Lock them out.
KIM: I can't. They're overriding my commands with Borg encryption codes.
JANEWAY: Report, Mister Kim.
KIM: 8472 and the Hirogen, they've been beamed to one of the attacking ships.
TUVOK: All six vessels are moving away at high warp.
JANEWAY: Tom, can we pursue?
PARIS: I'm sorry, Captain. Warp engines are still offline.
JANEWAY: Resume our previous course, full impulse.
CHAKOTAY: Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51652.3. It's been twelve hours, and our sensors show no sign of any Hirogen vessels. But their people are scattered throughout this region, and something tells me that the hunt for Voyager is far from over.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: Step down, please. Seven, you disobeyed my direct orders, and as a result you condemned a sentient being to its death.
SEVEN: By doing so, I also diverted the Hirogen attack. An attack which would have destroyed us.
JANEWAY: Maybe not. In any case, the decision wasn't yours to make.
SEVEN: The creature broke through the forcefield. I had no choice.
JANEWAY: I didn't come here to debate your decision. I came here to inform you of the consequences. When you first came to Voyager, I decided to grant you the same liberties and freedoms of any crew member, because I wanted you to be a part of this family. And I've been willing to accommodate your unique way of doing things, even when you rubbed somebody the wrong way or violated protocol. But this time, I can't accommodate you. From this point forward, you will no longer have access to any primary systems on this ship. Not without my direct authorisation. If you attempt to circumvent me, I'll throw you in the Brig. I still need your expertise in the Astrometrics lab if you're willing. If not, you can spend your time here in the Cargo Bay. Is that understood?
SEVEN: Yes.
SEVEN: It is puzzling.
JANEWAY: What's that?
SEVEN: You made me into an individual. You encouraged me to stop thinking like a member of the Collective, to cultivate my independence and my humanity. But when I try to assert that independence I am punished.
JANEWAY: Individuality has its limits, especially on a starship where there's a command structure.
SEVEN: I believe that you are punishing me because I do not think the way you do. Because I am not becoming more like you. You claim to respect my individuality, but in fact you are frightened by it.
JANEWAY: As you were.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Direct hit.
KOVIN: The target buoy is solid monotanium, ten meters thick, shielded by a chromoelectric forcefield.
JANEWAY: Impressive.
KOVIN: I'm glad you agree. It's not wise to travel this region without adequate defenses. I've seen scuttled ships with more firepower than Voyager.
JANEWAY: I'm sure you have.
KOVIN: Imagine what you'll be capable of once the isokinetic cannon is integrated into your defensive systems. One projectile can penetrate the shields of any heavily armored vessel. Hostile species will know to avoid Voyager by reputation alone.
JANEWAY: You've made your point, Mister Kovin. I want the cannon, and I'm prepared to give you astrometrics charts spanning twelve sectors. You'll find them unusually precise.
KOVIN: Even the most sophisticated charts become obsolete. One random anomaly and they're no longer accurate. However, I could be persuaded if you were to include the mapping technology that created them.
JANEWAY: Sorry. Our Astrometrics sensors were designed specifically for this ship. They'd be of no use to you. What I can offer you is a generous supply of isolinear processing chips. We'll even show you how to integrate them into your existing sensor technology.
KOVIN: How generous a supply?
JANEWAY: One hundred chips.
KOVIN: One hundred and fifty.
JANEWAY: One fifteen.
KOVIN: One twenty five.
JANEWAY: Done. Escort our guest to Engineering. You'll be supervising the installation of the cannon?
KOVIN: Of course. For a modest fee.
JANEWAY: Five additional chips, no more.
KOVIN: It's good to see the art of negotiation isn't lost on you, Captain.
PARIS: That guy is worse than a Ferengi
JANEWAY: Assign Seven of Nine to work on this. She's got a knack for adapting alien technology.
CHAKOTAY: Should I give her complete access to the engineering control systems?
JANEWAY: I'm ready to give her some latitude. She's been behaving herself lately.

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: What are you working on?
SEVEN: I'm trying to decode the message Starfleet Command sent us several weeks ago.
CHAKOTAY: Any progress?
SEVEN: None. I'm working on a new decryption algorithm.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like you to set it aside for a while. I have another assignment for you.
SEVEN: What is it?
CHAKOTAY: The Captain wants you to help Kovin integrate the new weapon system.
SEVEN: I'd rather not. I find him inefficient.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe so, but you seem to work well with him. You've been asking for more responsibilities, I thought you'd be pleased.
SEVEN: The captain gives me greater liberty only when she needs my expertise.
CHAKOTAY: You violated her trust, and if you want it back, you're going to have to earn it. One step at a time.
SEVEN: I will report to Engineering.

[Engineering]
KOVIN: You'll need to install isolinear buffer circuits here and here.
SEVEN: The main power relay should be protected by a containment field.
KOVIN: Unnecessary. All the buffer circuits would have to fail simultaneously for there to be any danger.
TORRES: We prefer to play it safe. I'll check the inventory logs to see if we have a field generator available.
KOVIN: What are you doing?
SEVEN: I'm reconfiguring the tactical control systems.
KOVIN: The isokinetic circuit requires a specialized protocol. Let me take care of it.
SEVEN: That won't be necessary.
KOVIN: No, no! The subroutines need to be arranged in cascading sequence. Let me show you.
TORRES: Seven, stop.

[Sickbay]
EMH: There's a hairline fracture of the premaxilla bone.
KOVIN: Do you see this, Captain? She shattered it.
EMH: It's easily repaired.
JANEWAY: Do you have any idea why Seven attacked you?
KOVIN: It was unprovoked. She came at me like an animal!
TORRES: Oh, I wouldn't put it like that. I was at another console about ten meters away. I heard Kovin raise his voice and when I looked around I saw that he was holding her arm.
KOVIN: I barely touched her. A gentle gesture to move her out of my way so I could get to the console, then she turned on me, attacked me.
JANEWAY: What did you say to her?
KOVIN: I told her how to reconfigure the tactical control systems properly.
JANEWAY: Is that all?
KOVIN: That's all!
TORRES: And that's when she knocked him down. Ashmore and I had to hold her back.
KOVIN: She would have killed me. That woman is dangerous.
EMH: It's a miracle you survived. Now hold still or this won't heal properly.
KOVIN: Why are you questioning me on this? You should be disciplining your crew member.
JANEWAY: Believe me, I'll deal with it. Please accept my sincere apology. Now, if you'll excuse me.
EMH: Good as new.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
JANEWAY: Here we are again. Oh, I'm tired of having this conversation. You know what I'm going to say. I know how you're going to respond, so it seems pointless to say anything.
SEVEN: Shall I consider my privileges restricted and confine myself to the Cargo Bay?
JANEWAY: I think we've established that traditional disciplinary actions don't work with you. The question is, what will?
SEVEN: Are you asking for my opinion?
JANEWAY: I suppose I am. Because frankly I'm running out of options. Throwing you in the brig isn't going to solve anything, neither is slapping you on the wrist. And it's not as though I don't understand your feelings about Kovin. There have been a few times when I'd have liked to pop him on the nose myself. But you have to start learning the difference between having an impulse and acting on it. Does that make any sense to you?
SEVEN: I believe so. I will give it more thought.
JANEWAY: Well, that's a start.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I hear there was some excitement this morning. When I started helping you improve your social skills, I'm fairly certain I didn't include a boxing lesson. You weren't hurt, were you?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: Still a bit tense?
SEVEN: Perhaps.
EMH: I understand the burden you carry. Constantly being obligated to deal with those who fall short of excellence. I often find my own patience being tested by someone like Mister Kovin. Of course I generally respond with a devastating quip rather than a left hook. We must both accept the fact that very few lifeforms will ever meet our high standards. So, when you get irritated, just try to be tolerant, and remember, they can't help being what they are. Hmm. I'm reading some increased engrammatic activity, and your adrenalin levels are slightly elevated.
SEVEN: What does that indicate?
EMH: It's consistent with a state of heightened tension. Lie down and I'll run some scans. In a typical human, I would consider this a mood swing. But with your unique physiology, I'd like to rule out the possibility of a chemical imbalance.
EMH: Have you been experiencing any other symptoms? Headaches, disorientation?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: Physiological scans seem normal. I'm going to check your Borg implants now.
EMH: Seven? What's wrong?
SEVEN: Let me out.
EMH: I will. Stay calm.
SEVEN: No more procedures.
EMH: All right.
SEVEN: Stay away. You mustn't do this.
EMH: Do what? Seven, what are you so afraid of?
SEVEN: I don't know.

[Medical lab]
EMH: She experienced an episode of acute anxiety with all the trimmings. Intense apprehension, shortness of breath, dizziness. I finally managed to sedate her.
JANEWAY: Could this have been caused by her cortical implants?
EMH: I don't think so. I think the problem has to do with memory suppression. I've detected a high concentration of biogenic amines in Seven's hippocampus, a substance I haven't noticed before. It's blocking portions of her memory center.
JANEWAY: Do you know where it came from?
EMH: No, but it seems to be dissipating.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Seven's unusual behavior may be the result of the blocked memories beginning to surface. Memories which she can't identify yet.
JANEWAY: Can you treat her?
EMH: Treatment would involve integrating the repressed memories into Seven's consciousness. I may be able to use a standard therapeutic regression technique.
JANEWAY: I wasn't aware that you were programmed for psychotherapeutic capabilities.
EMH: I wasn't. But in the absence of a ship's counselor, I've been developing a psychiatric subroutine to add to my program. I'll be even more valuable to you than I am now.
JANEWAY: Keep me informed, Doctor.

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: A Jungian therapist would attempt to retrieve unconscious memories by exploring synchronicities in recent events. On the other hand, Amanin of Betazed would argue that a combination of sensory isolation and focused breathing techniques would be more effective. I've integrated the finer points of both to create my own approach to memory reconstruction.
SEVEN: What does this approach involve?
EMH: First, putting you at ease by performing the treatment here, in your own environment. Once the cortical probes have reinforced the neural pathways, I'll use a directed imagery technique to guide you through the regression.
SEVEN: You may proceed.
EMH: Please, close your eyes. Clear your mind. Try not to think or to analyze.
SEVEN: My mind is now clear.
EMH: Seven, this isn't an exercise in efficiency. Close your eyes, breathe deeply. Now concentrate on the sound of my voice. Let go of the present, leave the cargo bay behind. Allow yourself to drift. Describe the first image that enters your mind.
SEVEN: A medical tricorder. Duritanium casing. Seven point six centimeters by nine point eight centimeters by three point two centimeters. Alphanumeric display.
EMH: That's enough. So, you're in Sickbay. How does the tricorder make you feel?
SEVEN: It disturbs me.
EMH: Why does it disturb you?
SEVEN: I'm afraid it will hurt me.
EMH: Is there anything else there that causes you to anticipate pain?
SEVEN: The diagnostic bed. It's closing around me.
EMH: You feel restrained, confined?
EMH: About what?
SEVEN: It's Kovin.
EMH: What is he doing?
SEVEN: He's restraining me. I want to get away from him but I can't. Kovin's using some kind of instrument on me.
EMH: Seven?
SEVEN: I didn't recall this before.
EMH: Recall what?
SEVEN: Kovin. He performed a surgical procedure on me. He extracted Borg technology from my body. He violated me.
EMH: We're making progress. Now tell me, this surgical procedure, when did it happen?
SEVEN: I don't know. The details are vague. There are only images.
EMH: And you're sure it was Kovin? Did you see Kovin?
SEVEN: Yes.
EMH: You said he was restraining you, using an instrument of some sort.
SEVEN: He was.
EMH: Were you on Voyager when this happened?
SEVEN: No. It must have been when we were testing the weapons on the surface.
EMH: Then concentrate on that away mission. Focus on the first image that enters your mind. Describe it for me,
SEVEN: A large granitic stone, approximately one half meter high.
EMH: Now, allow that memory to develop beyond the image. Integrate it into your consciousness. Let the memory take shape.

[Seven's memory - Entharan weapons range]
SEVEN (voiceover): I'm at the weapons range. Kovin had taken us there to evaluate various hand held firearms he wished to offer in trade.
SEVEN: He attempted to impress us with a demonstration of the weapons' destructive capabilities. My role was to provide a more objective analysis.
KOVIN: Terawatt powered particle beam rifle, four microsecond recharge cycle, ten kilometer range.
PARIS: Definitely not standard Starfleet issue. What do you think?
SEVEN: Seventy two percent fragmentation, twenty eight percent vaporization. Crude, but efficient.
PARIS: It's not as accurate as our compression rifles, but it's a lot easier to handle. I wouldn't mind carrying one of these the next time we run into the Hirogen.
SEVEN: Targeting mechanism could be augmented with a thermal guidance sensor. That would improve accuracy by twenty four percent.
KOVIN: I can do that now. Care to join me? You can make sure the adjustments perform to your specifications.
PARIS: If you don't mind, I'd like to test some of the other firearms.
KOVIN: Go right ahead. This way.
SEVEN (voiceover): Kovin took me to a small laboratory.

[Seven's memory - Kovin's laboratory]
EMH (voiceover): Describe it.
SEVEN (voiceover): It was poorly illuminated. I saw various instruments, technology unfamiliar to me. I assumed this was where he developed new weapon designs.
SEVEN: This weapon is thoron based.
KOVIN: Most of these hand-held disrupters are.
SEVEN: Thoron can be unstable in weapons.
KOVIN: Not if you polarize the emitter matrix. That compensates for any instabilities. Watch.
SEVEN: What are you doing?

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: He turned the weapon on me.
EMH: He fired?
SEVEN: Yes, I remember it now.
EMH: What happened next?
SEVEN: I'm not sure.
EMH: Concentrate. See the laboratory in your mind.
SEVEN: There was a light in my eyes.

[Seven's memory - Kovin's laboratory]
EMH (voiceover): Was Kovin still in the room with you?
SEVEN (voiceover): Yes.
KOVIN: Restrain her, quickly.
SEVEN (voiceover): And another Entharan was assisting him.
SCHARN: This is Borg technology.
KOVIN: That's what I've been telling you.
SEVEN: Let me go.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: They bound me to an examination table.
EMH: What did they do to you? Did they scan you?

[Seven's memory - Kovin's laboratory]
KOVIN: The bio-ablation pump is engaged and pressurized.
SCHARN: The growth medium is activating the implants. The nanoprobes are multiplying.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: They put a device near my head.

[Seven's memory - Kovin's laboratory]
SEVEN (voiceover): They removed my ocular implant.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Then some of the implants in my arm were activated.
EMH: Which ones? Can you be more specific?

[Seven's memory - Kovin's laboratory]
KOVIN: Use the maximum setting of the metagenic pulse to stimulate the implants.
SCHARN: The assimilation tubules are ready.
KOVIN: Prepare to harvest the nanoprobes.
SEVEN (voiceover): They extracted nanoprobes through my assimilation tubules. I was powerless, unable to stop them.
EMH: You couldn't be expected to. You were restrained. Then what happened?
SEVEN (voiceover): They took the nanoprobes to another subject, also restrained. Then they, they assimilated him.
SCHARN: Well done.
SEVEN (voiceover): The next thing I remember I was back in Kovin's lab. He claimed the particle beam rifle overloaded, that it had burned my hand. But it was a lie. They had attacked me.
KOVIN: I'm sorry. I should have been more careful.
SEVEN: Do you have a dermal regenerator?
KOVIN: Of course.

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: I'll inform the captain.

[Briefing room]
EMH: There's no doubt that Seven was the victim of a brutal assault.
JANEWAY: How is she?
EMH: As well as can be expected. She's regenerating in her alcove. I predict her emotional recovery will take some time. I certainly hope you intend to hold Kovin responsible for what he's done.
JANEWAY: First I want to know how much of her story we can corroborate. Tom, you were with her on the planet. How long was she alone with Kovin?
PARIS: At least two hours.
JANEWAY: And when she came back, did she say anything about what happened?
PARIS: Only that they'd finished their work on the rifle. She seemed fine.
EMH: Clearly Mister Kovin used some artificial means to suppress her memory of the event. That would explain the unusual engrammatic activity I found in her neurological scans.
JANEWAY: Did you find any other physical evidence of the medical procedures she described?
EMH: No. I suspect Mister Kovin used Seven's own nanoprobes to repair any cellular damage. She distinctly remembers Kovin extracting them.
TUVOK: You seem to be accepting Seven's recovered memories as fact.
EMH: Are you suggesting otherwise?
TUVOK: Historically, recovered memories have often proven unreliable.
EMH: Yes, in cases where a traumatic experience has been repressed for years. But we're dealing with a very recent memory here, that was blocked by artificial means. When I removed that mechanism, Seven remembered everything that happened.
TUVOK: Human memory is rarely perfect.
PARIS: What are you saying, Tuvok? That Seven is making this up?
TUVOK: No, but we must remember that she's experienced hallucinatory images before.
EMH: That was in direct response to a signal from the ship where she was assimilated. She's not having hallucinations now. She's remembering what happened to her. I've confirmed this by analyzing the specific engrammatic activity in her hippocampus. We're not talking about conjecture, we're talking about science.
JANEWAY: Let's not get bogged down. Seven's made serious accusations and I won't dismiss them. If Kovin assaulted her, took a sample of her Borg technology, we can't stand by and do nothing. In the wrong hands a single nanoprobe could lead to disaster. Doctor, I want you to keep searching for any physical evidence to back up Seven's claim. I will talk to Kovin. Dismissed.

[Ready room]
KOVIN: This is offensive and absurd. She's obviously lying.
JANEWAY: Why would she do that?
KOVIN: Maybe you can answer that. She's your crewmember. First she attacks me, then she invents these ridiculous stories, and you try to place the blame on me. Is this some kind of negotiating tactic?
JANEWAY: I have no hidden agenda. I'm simply trying to clarify what happened.
KOVIN: I told you already. We went to my laboratory to adjust the guidance system on the particle beam rifle.
JANEWAY: And that took two hours?
KOVIN: She insisted absolute precision.
JANEWAY: We've confirmed that Seven was exposed to an intense thoron discharge.
KOVIN: She was, after the rifle's power cell overloaded. We reported the accident immediately.
JANEWAY: She now remembers that you fired the weapon at her deliberately.
KOVIN: That's preposterous.
JANEWAY: The Doctor now tells me the blast could have been enough to render her unconscious.
KOVIN: But it didn't. We were both startled for a moment. And after I apologized for the accident, she asked if I had a dermal regenerator, which I did, and I used on her arm. The one with the mechanical implants.
JANEWAY: Which you recognized as Borg.
KOVIN: I was aware she'd been a Borg. She told me herself.
JANEWAY: Did you ever express curiosity in that technology, or try to examine it more closely?
KOVIN: No.
JANEWAY: You never considered the potential value it might have as a weapon?
KOVIN: Is that what you think I've done?
JANEWAY: You may not realize how dangerous Borg technology can be. If you've taken even a single nanoprobe, I need to know about it right now.
KOVIN: I haven't taken anything.
JANEWAY: I'd like to examine your laboratory to be absolutely sure.
KOVIN: No. This has already gone too far.
JANEWAY: Then I'll have to contact the authorities. Maybe they'll be more helpful.
KOVIN: Are you willing to risk our trade agreement all on the basis of one crew member's delusions?
JANEWAY: Yes. Now, are you going to cooperate with our investigation?
KOVIN: I don't seem to have much choice.

[Tuvok's office]
TUVOK: You stated that the rifle's power cell overloaded as a result of a faulty oscillator adjustment.
KOVIN: That's right.
TUVOK: Can you describe in more detail how that occurred?
KOVIN: I was showing her how to polarize the emitter matrix. I must have tuned the induction frequency too high.
TUVOK: Were you unfamiliar with that procedure?
KOVIN: No. I have done it a hundred times. It was a careless mistake. How many times do I need to apologize?
TUVOK: I am not seeking a statement of remorse.
KOVIN: Then what do you want? Are you trying to catch me in a lie? Trick me into confessing? You can't, because there's nothing for me to confess! I haven't done anything wrong.
TUVOK: One of our crew members claims that you have.
KOVIN: Your crewmember, Seven of Nine, she's very fortunate.
TUVOK: How so?
KOVIN: She has an entire crew leaping to her defense. I have no one.
TUVOK: The Entharan representative will be here shortly.
KOVIN: You mean the Magistrate? He won't help me. He's more interested in protecting diplomatic relations with people like you.
TUVOK: Surely he'll want to know the truth. That's all we're seeking.
KOVIN: You don't understand. On my world, we depend on trade with alien species. There are strict protocols about those relationships. Even being accused of violating them is a serious offense.
TUVOK: You will have the opportunity to refute any charges.
KOVIN: It won't matter. Once they're made, the damage is done. I won't be trusted any longer. I'll be ruined. Please, I never hurt your crew member. Don't do this.
TUVOK: I'm afraid I have no choice. But I assure you our investigation will be conducted in a fair and impartial manner.
KOVIN: You strike me as a man of your word. If you tell me I won't be prejudged, then I believe you.

[Sickbay]
EMH: How are you feeling?
SEVEN: I am undamaged.
EMH: But how do you feel? Seven, your physical scars have healed, but the psychological effects are still there. You'll have to deal with them.
SEVEN: For what purpose?
EMH: In order to heal. Kovin attacked you, violated your rights as an individual. It's important that you recognize that, so you can understand any hostility or resentment you might be feeling.
SEVEN: Resentment is a human trait. It has no structure, no function. I want no part of it.
EMH: You're going to have to begin accepting the fact that your human feelings exist, and that suppressing them can damage you.
SEVEN: If I am not aware of these feelings, how can I express them?
EMH: Let me ask you this. What would have happened if Kovin had tried to take Borg technology directly from the Collective?
SEVEN: He would have been assimilated.
EMH: Precisely. Which is why he chose you. He could get what he wanted without running any risks.
SEVEN: It was my individuality which made me vulnerable.
EMH: Exactly. He violated that individuality. What he did is an affront to everything you are, Borg and Human.
SEVEN: It was the act of a coward.
EMH: Yes! Someone who was willing to use you in the cruelest way so that he could create new weapons and sell them.
SEVEN: I believe I'm beginning to experience anger. Anger toward Kovin.
EMH: Good. That's a perfectly healthy, normal response. And when Kovin gets what he deserves, you're going to feel much better.

[Kovin's laboratory]
KOVIN: Right this way, Magistrate. My laboratory.
EMH: There are no examination tables.
KOVIN: I told you, just work benches.
TUVOK: Is this the entire facility?
KOVIN: Yes.
EMH: We should scan for signs that the room may have been altered recently. During her regression, Seven described instruments similar to these.
KOVIN: Of course she did. She was here.
EMH: She said a device like this was used to remove her optic implant.
KOVIN: That's a micro-caliper. I used it to remove the casing over the guidance system on the particle beam rifle.
EMH: And isn't this an electro-dynamic probe?
KOVIN: Yes.
EMH: Hmm. It's equipped with a monofilament stimulator. Could it be used to manipulate the neurotransmitter levels in a human brain?
KOVIN: Not as it is.
EMH: But with the proper modifications?
KOVIN: With the proper modifications I could reconfigure your comm. badge to manipulate neurotransmitters. What's your point?
EMH: I believe you've just made it. There is cellular residue on many of these instruments. It matches Seven's genome. With your permission, sir, I'd like to take these tools back to Voyager where I can run more conclusive scans.
MAGISTRATE: Take whatever you need.
TUVOK: Doctor, there are a number of Borg nanoprobes on the surface of this table.
EMH: I'll just collect a sample. Hmm.
KOVIN: That's where her arm was hit when the rifle overloaded.
TUVOK: The dispersal pattern is consistent with a dermal rupture.
EMH: These nanoprobes were recently regenerated. If this were nothing more than cellular residue from Seven's injury, the nanoprobes would be dormant. But these have been activated in a very specific pattern.
MAGISTRATE: I've seen enough. Kovin, there is sufficient evidence here to detain you pending official proceedings.
KOVIN: No. Please. No.
KOVIN: Stay where you are.
MAGISTRATE: Kovin, don't!
KOVIN: I trusted you. You said it would be an impartial investigation. But you're all determined to find what you want to find. Well, I'm not going to let this happen.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway here.
TUVOK: Mister Kovin has transported out of the laboratory.

[Bridge]
TUVOK (voiceover): Can you track his present position?
JANEWAY: Stand by.
KIM: I'm picking up a transporter signature, three hundred kilometers above the surface.
PARIS: Captain, there's a ship powering it's engines at those coordinates.
JANEWAY: Magistrate, do you want us to follow him?

[Kovin's laboratory]
MAGISTRATE: Yes, but I'd like to join you.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Very well. We'll beam you to Voyager. Stand by.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Kovin's ship is on a heading of one eight mark two five.
JANEWAY: Set an intercept course. Get ready to lock on a tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: He's only at half impulse. His ship may not have warp engines.
PARIS: We're at nine thousand kilometers and closing.
CHAKOTAY: I'm engaging the tractor beam.
PARIS: I can't find him. All of my sensor readings have disappeared.
KIM: He generated a photonic pulse. It took them offline. We'll have to reinitialize the entire sensor array.
JANEWAY: Do it. Our investigation has suddenly turned into a manhunt.
CHAKOTAY: The fact that he's running shows that he's got something to hide. Until we find out what that is, we can't risk letting him go.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51679.4. We've detected the warp signature from Kovin's ship and we're now in pursuit. In the meantime, Tuvok and I have been examining the tools from Kovin's lab.

[Medical lab]
JANEWAY: This isn't getting us anywhere. Seven's cellular residue is on everyone of these, but that would be true if she simply handled them.
TUVOK: My examination of the rifle is equally inconclusive. It may have overloaded accidentally, or not.
JANEWAY: I'm getting a bad feeling about this, Tuvok. We aren't finding anything that implicates Kovin.
TUVOK: I told him our investigation would be impartial. I believe it has been.
JANEWAY: It has, but I'll admit I had some preconceptions about him. They may have influenced my judgment. The strongest evidence so far is the batch of nanoprobes the Doctor found. The fact that they were regenerated suggests that Kovin was experimenting with them.
TUVOK: We don't know a great deal about the interaction between nanoprobes and Borg physiology. It might be worthwhile to simulate the effect of the rifle blast on Seven's arm and see what happens to the nanoprobes.
JANEWAY: Good. Maybe that'll give us some answers.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Is this really necessary, Captain? She's suffered enough trauma already.
JANEWAY: We don't want to make accusations against an innocent man. We have to do everything we can to find some concrete evidence.
SEVEN: He's not an innocent man. I know what he did to me.
TUVOK: But we must have proof, and this experiment may provide us with it. We've configured this hypospray to simulate the energy of a thoron blast. We'll collect thin layers of your skin tissue and examine the effects. It won't be painful.
SEVEN: I'm not afraid. I am angry.
JANEWAY: I know. Try to be patient. We may have some answers soon.
JANEWAY: All right, let's see what we've got.
JANEWAY: I think you'd better take a look.
SEVEN: What do you see?
EMH: The nanoprobes are regenerating in exactly the same pattern we saw in Kovin's laboratory. It appears to be a spontaneous response which could have been caused by the energy released from the thoron weapon.
SEVEN: It doesn't matter. Kovin is guilty.
JANEWAY: Seven, there's no doubt in my mind that you believe what you're saying. But is it possible, just possible, that the memories you and the Doctor recovered aren't accurate?
SEVEN: How could that be?
JANEWAY: During your time with the Borg, you were subjected to invasive medical procedures. You undoubtedly witnessed other victims being assimilated. Could that be what you're remembering?
SEVEN: You know that's not right. Tell them.
EMH: Everything led me to believe that you were a victim. Your extreme response to Kovin in Engineering, your irrational fear when I was examining you. Something prompted that behavior, and I believed it was a repressed memory of your ordeal with Kovin.
SEVEN: That is what it was.
EMH: But if I'm to be impartial, I have to acknowledge that your neurology is still something of a mystery to me. I can't be certain what triggered those memories, and we can't ignore the fact that this evidence supports Kovin's story, and not yours.
SEVEN: You were the one who helped me to understand what happened and now you're denying it.
JANEWAY: Seven, no one's abandoning you, but we have to do what's right. We have to find Kovin and tell him what we've learned.
SEVEN: The Doctor told me I would feel better when Kovin gets what he deserves. I want him to be punished. I won't settle for anything less.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Paris?
PARIS: He's in range.
JANEWAY: Visual. Hail him.
TUVOK: No response. He's charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Open a channel, all frequencies. Mister Kovin, this is Captain Janeway. We believe we've made a mistake in accusing you. We only want to correct the situation. Stand down your weapons.
TUVOK: He's responding.
KOVIN (screen): Stop your pursuit. I can damage your ship.
JANEWAY: We're not here to take you by force.
KOVIN (screen): Then let me go.
MAGISTRATE: Kovin, listen to me. The proceedings must be resolved.
KOVIN (screen): This is a trap.
JANEWAY: No. We've discovered information that supports your story.
KOVIN (screen): I don't believe you.
EMH: We've re-examined the evidence. Finding the nanoprobes led us to the wrong conclusion. We know now that your thoron rifle did overload. Please.
TUVOK: He's firing a spread of photon pulses.
KIM: Shields down to eighty two percent.
JANEWAY: Back off. Give him some breathing room.
PARIS: He's coming about, heading right for us.
CHAKOTAY: Direct hit to the power grid.
MAGISTRATE: Innocent or not, he's going to destroy your vessel.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: He's come under enough fire from us already. Harry, try to beam him off his ship.
KIM: He's thrown up a scattering field. I can't get a lock.
JANEWAY: Keep trying.
CHAKOTAY: Shields are down.
TUVOK: He's shunting all power to his photonic emitters.
MAGISTRATE: We must protect ourselves. Disable his ship.
JANEWAY: No! Evasive maneuvers. Hard to port, full thrusters
PARIS: Aye.
KIM: I've almost got a lock on him. A few more seconds.
TUVOK: He's charging weapons again. Captain, his emitters are overloading. All his systems are destabilizing.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. Kovin, shut down your scattering field. Let us beam you aboard. Kovin!
CHAKOTAY: He's firing.
JANEWAY: Harry?
KIM: I can't find anything to lock onto, Captain.
MAGISTRATE: There's nothing more we could have done.
JANEWAY: Stand down Red alert. Mister Paris, set a course back to the Entharan colony. Chief Medical Officer's log, stardate 51658.2. I've spent the past three days being cross-examined by the Entharan authorities, but the matter is finally resolved.

[Doctor's office]
SEVEN: Doctor.
EMH: Yes.
SEVEN: I'm here for my weekly maintenance.
EMH: Oh, of course. This way, please.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Metabolic rate is stable. Electro-optic implant is aligned. Your blood pressure is slightly off, but within tolerance. You're in perfect health. See you next week.
SEVEN: I do not feel perfect.
EMH: What do you mean?
SEVEN: I am preoccupied by Kovin's death.
EMH: Join the club. It's all I can think about.
SEVEN: As a Borg, I was responsible for the destruction of countless millions and I felt nothing. But now, I regret the destruction of this single being.
EMH: It's called remorse, Seven. It comes into play when you make a mistake, and you feel guilt about what you've done. Another new emotion for you to experience.
SEVEN: I do not enjoy this remorse any more than I enjoyed anger. Will the feeling subside?
EMH: Yes. But not quickly.
SEVEN: I would rather not have to wait.
EMH: I'm afraid you don't have much choice.
EMH: But maybe I do.

[Ready room]
EMH: I've isolated the algorithms responsible for my desire to expand beyond my original programming. I want to delete them.
JANEWAY: Why?
EMH: It was my urge to experiment, my infatuation with improving myself, that led to this tragedy. I fancied myself a psychologist, a ship's counselor. But I wasn't prepared for the complexities that come with such a responsibility. In my enthusiasm to help Seven of Nine, I lost my medical objectivity. I became a self-righteous advocate. I didn't stop to think for one second that I might be wrong. That mustn't happen again.
JANEWAY: You want to go back to the state you were in when we first activated you?
EMH: I'll still be capable of treating any and all medical conditions, but without the risk of overstepping my bounds. It's for the best, Captain.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm not so sure. This crew has benefited greatly from your improvements over the years. Request denied.
EMH: Captain.
JANEWAY: I won't turn back the clock because of one mistake, no matter how serious. And no matter how you might feel.
EMH: I'm a physician. I'm supposed to preserve life, not destroy it. I can't live with the thought that I might do it again.
JANEWAY: With any luck, that knowledge will prevent it from happening again. We all rallied around Seven, Doctor, myself included. I wanted her to know she was part of this family, that we would support her, fight for her, no matter what. We let our good intentions blind us. We all bear responsibility for Kovin's death, and we all have to live with it. But to delete that burden would be the last thing any of us should do.

[Holodeck two - Klingon battle simulation]
JANEWAY: P'tahk! Prepare to meet your ancestors!
JANEWAY: This battle is yours today, but the House of Mo'kai will never yield.
KARR: Doh-cha scree! Move away, coward. I want to make this kill.
JANEWAY: You should have killed me when my back was turned.
KARR: I want to see the fear in your eyes.
JANEWAY: Look closely and you'll see your own destruction.
KARR: You are resilient prey.
JANEWAY: I'm no one's prey.
KARR: You are mine, now and after death. Sickbay, this is Holodeck two. Janeway requires medical assistance.

[Sickbay]
MEDIC: She'll survive.
KARR: What about her neural interface?
MEDIC: Stable.
KARR: Are you sure? There were times when she seemed aware of who she is.
MEDIC: Impossible. I was monitoring the crew during the entire simulation. She believes she's whoever we program her to be. Shall I return her to the Klingon simulation?
KARR: No. Bring her to Holodeck one. I've found another program I want to try. A conflict that took place on her own planet. It should prove stimulating.

[Le Coeur de Lion]
SEVEN: Wrong, would it be wrong to kiss? Seeing I feel like this, would it be wrong to try? Wrong, would it be wrong to stay, here in your arms this way, under this starry sky? If it is wrong
JANEWAY: Welcome to Le Coeur de Lion. I'm Katrine. The first round is with my compliments, on one condition. You leave the war outside. More escargot for table nine. Jacques, no lady tonight? Oh, we'll have to see what we can do about that.
JANEWAY: Forgive my neglecting you. Now, where were we? Ah, yes, my latest adventure in Paris.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I'll have to neglect you again. Excuse me.
TUVOK: That's him.
JANEWAY: Our new Kommandant?
TUVOK: British intelligence believes he's been sent here to oversee the occupation of the city.
JANEWAY: What's his history?
TUVOK: He served with Rommel in North Africa and Schmidt in Poland. He is a formidable military strategist, notorious for his cruelty.
JANEWAY: Ah. Let's make him feel at home. Send him a bottle of Chateau LaTour. My compliments.
TUVOK: The '29?
JANEWAY: I hate to waste good wine. Give him the '36.
TUVOK: As you wish.
SEVEN: And I have waited so long. It must be right. It can't be wrong.
SEVEN: Merci. Be generous to Claude this evening. Without him, my voice is empty. Good evening.
TURANJ: Sing.
SEVEN: Tonight's performance is over. Return tomorrow.
TURANJ: Now.
SEVEN: Remove your hand.
TURANJ: Obey me, or I will hunt you down and your bones will adorn the bulkhead of my ship.
KARR: Sit down and play the game. In this setting, we have no ships. We are an ancient race of soldiers intent upon conquering this world. Play the game.
JANEWAY: Now, now, what's this? Mademoiselle LeNeuf will be happy to sing another song. Just give her a few minutes to freshen up.
SEVEN: It's late.
JANEWAY: Freshen up.
SEVEN: Very well.
JANEWAY: Kommandant Karr.
KARR: You know me.
JANEWAY: Your reputation precedes you. I'm Katrine. Le Coeur de Lion is my establishment. The first round is with my compliments, on one condition. You leave the war outside.
KARR: I wish to speak with her. Alone.
JANEWAY: Charming gentleman.
KARR: He is disoriented. Your world is unfamiliar to him.
JANEWAY: He'll be comfortable soon enough. The arms of France are open to all.
KARR: I've heard otherwise.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
KARR: I understand there is opposition to our presence here among your citizens.
JANEWAY: The Resistance? In Paris perhaps. But this is a small city, defenseless. We've learned to be a little more diplomatic. When this war is over we want to remain on good terms with the victor.
KARR: Whoever that may be.
JANEWAY: Whoever that may be.
KARR: Your city may be defenseless, but it's crucial to the war. Any ground assault into Germany must pass through this province. The Resistance will come here.
JANEWAY: If they do, I'll tell them what I tell everyone. Leave the war outside.
KARR: Excellent.
TURANJ: Kommandant, I've been informed there's a problem in the Engineering section. The warp plasma network has become unstable.
JANEWAY: What's he talking about?
KARR: It need not concern you. To the hunt.
JANEWAY: The hunt?
KARR: For the Resistance. I shall take great pleasure in tracking them down and making the kill.
JANEWAY: Au revoir.
JANEWAY: How'd we do?
SEVEN: Insufficient for a Saturday night. Twelve hundred forty seven francs and eighty one Reichmarks.
JANEWAY: Well, it should be enough to buy an oscillator to extend the range of our radio. First thing tomorrow morning I want you to take a little trip to the countryside. There's a Monsieur Groleau who has a cottage just past the third bridge. He's got a wine cellar full of vacuum tubes. Tell him we need a high frequency oscillator. Offer him three hundred francs but don't go any higher than five hundred.
SEVEN: We have more pressing needs.
JANEWAY: Such as?
SEVEN: Explosives. We need a launcher that can fire armor piercing grenades.
JANEWAY: Planning on blowing up a German tank?
SEVEN: If necessary.
JANEWAY: We're not trying to build an army here.
SEVEN: Then maybe it's time we did. Three more German battalions have occupied the city and a Panzer division is holding position eleven kilometers away. When the Americans arrive and the fighting begins, I don't intend to be standing next to a piano singing Moonlight Becomes You.
JANEWAY: The Americans won't even be able to approach this city without our help. And if they can't liberate Sainte Claire the assault into Germany could fail. We need to be gathering information about German troop movements and relaying it to Allied Command.
SEVEN: I'm tired of lighting the Nazi's cigarettes and laughing at their jokes. We should be helping the Allies by assassinating these pigs.
JANEWAY: The moment we start shooting we expose ourselves. Right now, no one suspects us. And I am not about to risk our entire operation because you've suddenly developed a nervous trigger finger.
SEVEN: That is your opinion, Madame.
JANEWAY: I'm the leader of the movement here and right now my opinion is the only one that counts, so get the oscillator. I think we're all feeling the strain. It's been a hard four years. But believe me, the Third Reich is feeling it too. We just have to hang on a little while longer. Word from the Americans is going to come any day.
SEVEN: Perhaps.
TUVOK: Again?
JANEWAY: Again. Why is she so adamant? What she's proposing would put us all at risk.
TUVOK: Maybe that's her intention.
JANEWAY: If you have suspicions, my old friend, let's hear them.
TUVOK: From the beginning, she's been argumentative, and on more than a few occasions she's disobeyed your direct orders.
JANEWAY: She's headstrong. Typical of the underground.
TUVOK: Nevertheless, her behavior has threatened our identities.
JANEWAY: She's the only munitions expert we have, and she can carry a tune. We need her. Let's keep our eye on her. Have her followed for the next few days. If she is a Nazi infiltrator, we'll have to eliminate her.

[Sainte Claire - Street]
NEELIX: Bonjour, madame.
WOMAN (voiceover): Bonjour.
NEELIX: Put it on my account. Guten Tag.
TURANJ: You! Halt!
TURANJ: Get off your vehicle. What are you transporting?
NEELIX: Nothing but the very essentials of life.
TURANJ: Proceed to your destination.
NEELIX: That I will. That I most certainly will.
TURANJ: If the choice were mine, you would already be dead.

[Le Coeur de Lion]
RADIO: More report rain. It's currently fifty nine degrees in Dover with low fog across the Channel. Temperatures are expected to range from a low of forty five degrees to
TORRES: Damn, I'm missing it.
TUVOK: Our most recent intelligence shows two German divisions here and here.
JANEWAY: How recent is this intelligence?
TUVOK: Forty eight hours.
JANEWAY: Old news.
RADIO: I'm Reginald Smith and you're listening to the British Radio Network. This report will repeat in
TORRES: Forty five seconds.
RADIO: Forty five seconds.
TORRES: Here's to English precision.
JANEWAY: We're closed.
NEELIX (voiceover): Morning delivery.
JANEWAY: You're late. What happened?
NEELIX: Oh, just a tete-a-tete with a member of the Master Race.
JANEWAY: That's the second time this week. Sounds like they're increasing their patrols.
TUVOK: Perhaps it's time we chose another courier. Our baker is arousing suspicion.
NEELIX: There's no need to worry. I change my route every day, and I've become quite friendly with most of the Gestapo. They just love my strudel.
RADIO: A kind thank you to Jazzy McNulty and his Band. Now, the weather for today, September the twenty second, nineteen forty four. In London skies are gray, with a strong chance of afternoon rain. Temperatures will range from a low of fifty two degrees to a high of seventy one. The northern coast reports heavy rain and strong winds, ocean swells reaching four feet. Devonshire, Hertfordshire and Summershire all report rain. It's currently fifty nine degrees in Dover with low fog across the Channel. Temperatures are expected to range from a low of forty five degrees to a high of sixty three. I am Reginald Smith and you are listening
TORRES: Got it. Let's see the code key.
JANEWAY: Every fifth letter, every third vowel. Use the Sunday decryption sequence. A, H, C. Straight from Allied High Command.
NEELIX: It must be important.
TUVOK: All messages regarding the war are important. It's only a matter of degree.
NEELIX: I suppose you're right, but do you have to be so logical about everything?
TUVOK: In any covert battle, logic is a potent weapon. You might try it sometime.
JANEWAY: American Fourth Infantry to invade Sainte Claire Tuesday dawn.
NEELIX: That's two days from now.
JANEWAY: Require assistance. Disable enemy communications. End message.
TUVOK: The German radio transmitter is housed at their headquarters.
NEELIX: That building is surrounded by guards. We can't just waltz in there and plant a bomb.
TORRES: Maybe I can help.
JANEWAY: How?
TORRES: I'm upset. I need to see my special friend. Even if it means bothering him at the office.
TUVOK: A reconnaissance mission.
TORRES: I'll try to locate the radio, see where the guards are posted, examine the locks. Gather enough information to get us inside.
JANEWAY: It's too dangerous. If you're caught, you'll be tortured for information.
TORRES: You don't know my friend. He would never do anything to harm his own child.
JANEWAY: Encode a response to Allied Command. Confirm that we've received their message. Tell them we're proceeding according to plan.

[Outside German HQ]
GUARD: Was es ist, Fräulein?
TORRES: Ich muß mit ihrem Hauptmann sprechen.
GUARD: Kommen hier.

[Kapitan's office]
KAPITAN: Ever since my days at the university I've admired this painting, and now it's mine. Our fellow officers might prefer gold or land, but for me the greatest prize of war is art.
KARR: Trophies of the hunt. But was the hunt fair?
KAPITAN: Sir?
KARR: We entered this city with superior firepower against a weakened prey. Do you really deserve these prizes?
KAPITAN: We are German. The German people deserve Europe and everything in it.
KARR: Why?
NAZI: Sir, you question our destiny?
KARR: Of course not. But I want to hear it in your own words. Tell me, why are we the Master Race?
KAPITAN: Our blood is pure. Our people lived and hunted on this land for a thousand years before the degenerate races brought their corruption. Europe must be purified.
KARR: You yourself, are you stronger than these degenerate races? More cunning?
KAPITAN: Yes, of course.
KARR: And if you were alone without an army supporting you, would you continue the hunt? If your prey were armed instead of defenseless, what then?
KAPITAN: I, Colonel, I, I don't know what you're trying
KARR: You are superior to no one! Never underestimate your prey or disrespect its abilities. If you do, you will become the hunted. When the opposing army invades this city, remember my words.
KARR: Enter.
KAPITAN: Brigitte.
TORRES: I'm sorry, I know I'm not supposed to come here. Don't blame him. I told him that I was ill and I had to see you.
KARR: I will leave you two alone.
KAPITAN: Heil Hitler!
KAPITAN: It's all right, the Colonel is in a strange mood today.
KAPITAN: What's wrong? Is it our child?
TORRES: I don't know. I was dizzy.
KAPITAN: I'll call the doctor.
TORRES: No. I feel better now. Maybe I just needed to see you. Why haven't you shown me this place before?
KAPITAN: I didn't want your neighbors to see you coming here. They make it difficult enough, knowing we're together.
TORRES: I don't care what they think. It's beautiful.
KAPITAN: Praxiteles, master sculptor of ancient Greece. There are only three like this in all of Europe.
TORRES: So many wonderful things.

[Sainte Claire - Street]
TURANJ: The Kommandant would have us continue this simulation until we rot. It's pointless. We should begin the hunt. He believes we must learn more about our prey, but I have learned enough. Ready your weapon. Avoid the cranium.
SEVEN: This way.
NEELIX: But the message.
SEVEN: There's no time!
TURANJ: Computer, exit holodeck. We'll take them to the medical bay.

[Sickbay]
MEDIC: This neural interface has been damaged.
EMH: That's because it took a direct hit when one of your bullets grazed the base of her skull.
MEDIC: I'll provide you with another. Install it.
EMH: Not until I've repaired her injuries.
MEDIC: How long?
EMH: She has two fractured vertebrae and a punctured lung. Another hour at least.
MEDIC: Him?
EMH: I've stabilized his vital systems, but he still has bullet fragments lodged in his shoulder.
MEDIC: I will treat him.
EMH: This time you might do a better job repairing the muscle lacerations. The last crewmember you treated was brought back in with internal bleeding.
MEDIC: Your crew is fragile. They fall too easily.
EMH: What do you expect? They've been stabbed, shot, beaten, phasered and bat'lethed over the past three weeks. Their bodies weren't designed for this kind of punishment.
KARR: What happened?
MEDIC: These prey were hunted by Turanj. Their injuries are severe.
EMH: You assured me that your people would avoid causing serious head injuries. Another centimeter and the bullet would have penetrated her brain. If you can't keep your people under control, then you should put an end to this blood sport.
KARR: The simulations will continue.
EMH: At least activate the holodeck safety protocols.
KARR: No.
EMH: It'll prevent life-threatening injuries for your people as well.
KARR: It will also eliminate the challenge.
EMH: I have had twenty eight wounded and one fatality in the past twelve hours. Even I can't keep up with that level of triage.
KARR: You will keep up or they will die. Their lives are in your hands, Doctor. Don't fail them. When that one is ready, place him in holodeck two. Let's see how he fares with the Klingons.
MEDIC: What about her?
KARR: Send her back to holodeck one. I like her voice.

[Bridge]
KARR: Progress?
KIM: By cutting through the bulkheads on decks four, five and six we've been able to expand both holodeck grids by five thousand square meters.
KARR: More.
KIM: I can't give you any more. Not without compromising Voyager's primary systems.
KARR: Then compromise them.
KIM: Look, holodecks require a tremendous amount of energy. I've already rerouted power from all nonessential systems. Anything more, and we'll start losing propulsion, deflectors, even life support.
KARR: I'll transfer a supply of power nodules from my vessel. Integrate them into your systems. I want to expand the holo-projectors into all surrounding sections. Replicate enough emitters for the task.
KIM: Yes, sir.

[Corridor]
KIM: The holo-emitters in this corridor are stable. Let's start working on section nineteen. But first, tell the guard to escort you to Engineering. That we need more equipment. Specifically, a type three isolinear emitter. If he gives you any trouble, say I can't complete the assignment without it.
ASHMORE: We need an isolinear emitter from Engineering.
EMH: Ensign, how did I get here?
KIM: I transferred you here, using the new emitters in this section.
EMH: I assume you've got a plan?
KIM: Half a plan.
EMH: Let's hear it.
KIM: Before we can retake the ship, we've got to get the crew back. That means disabling the neural interfaces.
EMH: Easier said than done. The great Hunters are everywhere you turn.
KIM: Don't worry, I think I've found a way to tap into the Sickbay diagnostic console. The only catch is
KIM: Standby with the emitter. I'm almost done here.
EMH: The catch, Ensign?
KIM: Somebody's got to be inside the holodeck to engage the bridge control relays.
EMH: We're short-handed.
KIM: I know.
EMH: Well, we've got a Borg on board, don't we? Maybe we can put her to good use.

[Ready room]
KARR: I've been studying Voyager's database looking for our next simulation. There are many to choose from. These people have a violent history. I believe I've found a worthy prey. The Borg. When World War Two is over, we will recreate a notorious battle known as Wolf 359.
TURANJ: I look forward to it.
KARR: I thought you might. But if you continue to disobey me, this is one hunt you will never see. You nearly destroyed two of my favorite prey. You were careless.
TURANJ: I've become impatient. We penetrated this vessel, overcame their defenses, and in the moment of the kill, you forced us to stop. Now we play these incessant games. It's time we took our trophies and moved on.
KARR: Your lust for the kill has blinded you, like many young hunters. If you took the time to study your prey, to understand its behavior, you might learn something.
TURANJ: There is nothing to be learned.
KARR: You're wrong. Each prey exposes us to another way of life and makes us re-evaluate our own. Have you considered our future? What would become of us when we have hunted this territory to exhaustion?
TURANJ: We will travel to another part of space, search for new prey, as we have always done.
KARR: A way of life that hasn't changed for a thousand years.
TURANJ: Why should it?
KARR: Species that don't change, die. We've lost our way. We've allowed our predatory instincts to dominate us. We disperse ourselves throughout the quadrant, sending ships in all directions. We've become a solitary race, isolated. We've spread ourselves too thin. We're no longer a culture. We have no identity. In another thousand years, no one will remember the name Hirogen. Our people must come back together, combine forces, rebuild our civilization.
TURANJ: What of the hunt?
KARR: The Hunt will always continue, but in a new way. I intend to transform this ship into a vast simulation, populated with a varied and endless supply of prey. In time, this technology can be duplicated for other Hirogen. These holodecks will allow us to hold onto our past, while we face the future.
TURANJ: Even if I were persuaded, others wouldn't be.
KARR: Then you are with me? I must continue my research. I'll see you tomorrow on holodeck one. The Americans are due to invade.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Remain calm and stay quiet. There's a Hirogen working in the bio-lab. He might hear us. What's the last thing you remember?
SEVEN: An attack. Hirogen vessels. They breached our hull and boarded the ship. I was in a phaser fight on deck three. I was struck several times. That's all I remember.
EMH: Then you have no memory of the simulations in the holodeck?
SEVEN: None.
EMH: The neural interface must be circumventing your memory centers.
SEVEN: Neural interface?
EMH: It's a subdermal transmitter that links your neocortex to the holodeck. In essence, it makes you believe you're a character within the program.
SEVEN: Why am I in Sickbay?
EMH: You were wounded in a simulation. It's my job to patch you all up and send you back in. Half the crew is under lock and key. The rest are fighting for their lives on the holodeck. This has been going on for nineteen days. Dozens of battle scenarios, one more brutal than the last. You should see what a mess you were after the Crusades.
SEVEN: Will I be sent into another simulation?
EMH: Yes, but this time with an advantage. I have found a way to disable the interface by remodulating one of your Borg implants to emit a jamming signal. Once the Hirogen have brought you back to the holodeck, the jamming signal will activate within seconds.
SEVEN: My objective?
EMH: You mind a control panel inside the holodeck and engage the bridge access relays. That will enable Ensign Kim and me to deactivate all the neural interfaces. After Captain Janeway and the crew regain awareness, you can work with them to mount a resistance against the Hirogen.
SEVEN: What simulation will I be entering?
EMH: World War Two. A twentieth century Earth conflict. Do you know anything about it?
SEVEN: Nothing.
EMH: That could be a problem. Once the interface is disabled, you won't remember anything about your role in the simulation. Think of it as a new social setting. Do your best to fit in.
MEDIC: This is the last neural interface. When you've finished with her, you'll help me replicate more.
EMH: I have to sedate you now.

[Le Coeur de Lion]
SEVEN: That old black magic has me in it's spell. That old black magic that you weave so well. Those icy fingers up and down my spine. The same old witchcraft when your eyes meet
SEVEN: I must discontinue this activity. I am not well.
KARR: If the entertainment is over, I'll be going.
JANEWAY: Stay right there, Kommandant. I'm sure she's fine. Let me talk to her.
JANEWAY: What's wrong?
SEVEN: I require a glass of water.
JANEWAY: Make it a quick one. I promised the Kommandant you'd be singing till midnight. I want to get a lot of information out of him tonight.
SEVEN: I am ill.
JANEWAY: Look, I don't care if you're dying. Get back out there.
SEVEN: I won't.
JANEWAY: Maybe you're right about her.
TUVOK: The evidence is increasing. She was present today when our courier was shot down in the street, yet somehow, she was unharmed. And now, on the eve of our liberation, she becomes uncooperative.
JANEWAY: Leave this to me.

[US Army - Captain's Tent]
PARIS: Captain?
CHAKOTAY: At ease. What's the word?
PARIS: There is no word. At least not from the Resistance in Sainte Claire.
CHAKOTAY: Then we won't get any support from inside the city.
PARIS: You may be underestimating the good citizens of Sainte Claire. I spent a summer there when I was eighteen.
CHAKOTAY: Let me guess. You ate a few snails, fell in love with a local girl and became an expert on the city?
PARIS: Ah, well, yeah, pretty much like that.
CHAKOTAY: I see.
PARIS: But believe me, Captain, those people love their town. They'll fight for it and die for it. Don't count them out yet.
CHAKOTAY: All right, but I won't count them in, either. We continue as planned. An assault from the north at first light. So, who was the mademoiselle?
PARIS: Her name was Brigitte. Great gams. One hell of a temper.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds like your kind of girl.
PARIS: August 29, 1936, 12:17 p.m. That's when my train pulled out of Sainte Claire. That's the last time I saw her. We wrote to each other every week for three years. Then the war broke out and I never heard from her again.
CHAKOTAY: Sainte Claire's not a big place. She shouldn't be too hard to find.
PARIS: I'm counting on it.

[Le Coeur de Lion]
JANEWAY: You'll maintain position here, twenty meters from the front doors. Arm yourself with a submachine gun and watch for any sign of trouble.
TUVOK: Understood.
JANEWAY: Now, we've observed a twenty second break in the guard rotation at four fifteen a.m. That should you and me enough time to enter the building through the storm window on the eastern wall.
TORRES: When I was there yesterday I saw guards posted at all three stairways. You'll have to reach the second floor through the elevator shaft. The command post is in the main gallery at the end of the hall.
JANEWAY: Once inside, we plant the charges, blow the transmitter. You'll remain here. If something goes wrong and we're caught, destroy all evidence of the Underground. Our contact list, decryption codes, everything.
TORRES: Right.
JANEWAY: We leave in one hour.
JANEWAY: This won't make much of a bang. You forgot to connect the detonator.
SEVEN: I will correct the error.
JANEWAY: It's lucky I found your little error. It might have undermined our mission. Are you having second thoughts about tonight?
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: Good, because I don't want any more mistakes.
SEVEN: There won't be any.
JANEWAY: Let's hope not.

[Mess hall]
EMH: We've got to stop meeting like this.
KIM: I managed to grab a quick scan of holodeck one, and it looks like Seven of Nine is on the move. Are you ready in Sickbay?
EMH: My Hirogen taskmaster is working in the bio-lab. I'll have access to the medical console for another twenty minutes at least.
KIM: That'll give me enough time to get to the bridge. (The EMH vanishes and two Hirogen enter.)
KIM: Good afternoon.
YOUNG HIROGEN: What are you doing in here?
KIM: Trying to get the replicator system back online. Unless you prefer the emergency rations? Personally, I'm getting tired of synthetic protein. You're supposed to be the finest hunters in the quadrant, why don't you find us something a little more tasty? Is something wrong?
YOUNG HIROGEN: An unauthorized transmission was sent from this room.
KIM: What kind of transmission?
YOUNG HIROGEN: I don't know. Maybe you can tell me.
KIM: Well, I was trying to re-route power from the main computer to the replicators. Of course. I must have tripped a communications subroutine. Sorry about that. Didn't mean to worry you. Your people have damaged just about every system on this vessel. Accidents are bound to happen. Now, if you don't mind, I'm due on the bridge.
YOUNG HIROGEN: Show it to me.
KIM: What?
YOUNG HIROGEN: I want to see this subroutine. Show me what you were doing when the accident occurred.
KIM: Forget it. I don't have time.
YOUNG HIROGEN: Do as I say.
KIM: All right! But you'd better call the bridge. Tell your superior I'm going to be late, that I'm working under your orders now, not his. Go ahead, make the call. I don't want to take the blame for this.
YOUNG HIROGEN: Report to the bridge.
KIM: Thanks.

[Kapitan's office]
JANEWAY: Set the charges here, here and there. This looks like a message from one of their reconnaissance teams.
JANEWAY: These must be instructions for troop deployments. The Germans must be taking up new positions outside the city. It looks like they're mobilizing more troops than our sources originally expected.
JANEWAY: They're moving armored units into the valley. They must know the Americans are coming. We've got to warn them somehow. What are you doing? You haven't set the charges. What is that?
SEVEN: I believe it is a transmitter. I'm attempting to disable it.
JANEWAY: You're sending a message to the Nazis.
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: Step away, or I'll kill you.

[Sickbay]
MEDIC: What are you doing?
EMH: Er, nothing. Just running a diagnostic.
MEDIC: You've accessed the neural interface controls. Stop it immediately.

[Kapitan's office]
JANEWAY: I told you no more mistakes. You've just made your last one.
JANEWAY: Ow! Seven?
SEVEN: Captain.

[Holodeck two - Klingon simulation]
NEELIX: Listen. A targ, just beyond that ridge.
KARR: You would hunt down a simple beast even in the midst of our enemies?
NEELIX: There is no enemy as great as hunger.
KARR: Why am I being interrupted?

[Sickbay]
MEDIC: The holographic Doctor, he's disabled their Captain's interface.
KARR (voiceover): How?
MEDIC: I don't know, but I can't re-establish the link.
KARR: Send a team

[Holodeck two - Klingon simulation]
KARR: To holodeck one. Remove her from the simulation.

[Kapitan's office]
SEVEN: Hirogen hunters.
JANEWAY: Internal scans show thirteen of them on this holodeck.

[Sainte Claire - Street]
CHAKOTAY: Need a hand, buddy? Captain Miller, Fifth Armored Infantry.
TUVOK: Welcome to Sainte Claire.
CHAKOTAY: Get me artillery unit Charlie One. Take up positions along this street and start laying down fire.

[Kapitan's office]
SEVEN: The Americans have arrived.

[Bridge]
KARR: You circumvented our control. How?
KIM: Go to hell!

[Le Coeur de Lion]
TORRES: Bobby.
PARIS: You owe me a postcard.

[Sainte Claire - Street]
CHAKOTAY: Distance eight hundred yards. Correct for crosswinds. Fire at will. Take cover, boys. Charlie One isn't known for accuracy.

[Kapitan's office]
JANEWAY: I can't access the ship's systems Didn't you say this was Nazi headquarters?
SEVEN: I did.
JANEWAY: Then it would stand to reason this building is being targeted. Let's get out of here.

[Bridge]
KARR: What happened?
KIM: There was a simulated explosion on holodeck one. Somehow it blew out the hologrid across three decks.
KARR: Is the program still running?
KIM: Yes.

[Sainte Claire - Street]
TUVOK: What is it?
CHAKOTAY: It looks like a bunker.
CHAKOTAY: All units, listen up. We've just blown the lid off of some kind of secret Nazi compound. Converge on my position. We're going in.

[Bridge]
KIM: The breach opened the simulation into the surrounding sections. I'm picking up holographic soldiers moving into deck five.
KARR: Shut down the holo-emitters until we can regain control.
KIM: I can't. The program controls are offline. You wanted a war? Looks like you've got one.

[Sainte Claire - Street]
CHAKOTAY: Move out.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Looks like the Hirogen have been busy. This entire section has been equipped with holo-emitters. Let's get to Astrometrics.

[Astrometrics]
SEVEN: There are eighty five Hirogen on board, concentrated on decks two through nine.
JANEWAY: What about the bridge?
SEVEN: Four Hirogen and Ensign Kim.
JANEWAY: At least he's alive. The neural interfaces. You said they're controlled through Sickbay.
SEVEN: Yes. There's only one Hirogen in Sickbay with the Doctor, but the corridors outside are heavily guarded.
JANEWAY: That's our first objective, disable the interfaces. But we'll need help.
SEVEN: We did have allies in the World War Two simulation. The French Resistance.
JANEWAY: It's time we mount a resistance of our own.

[Bridge]
KIM: The battle was concentrated here, on holodeck one, but the fighting has spilled out onto decks five and six and it looks like a group of holographic Americans is invading deck seven.
KARR: Show me the breach in the hologrid.
KIM: I've lost the visual link. It was the last active circuit connecting the bridge to the holodecks. There's only one way to stop this. I need to go to Engineering and initiate a power surge across the holo-emitter network. It'll blow out the entire system.
KARR: No. That would destroy both the holodecks.
KIM: Look, simulation or not, if this battle keeps going we could all be killed.
KARR: I want that technology preserved.
TURANJ: Commander.
KARR: Status.
TURANJ: I was able to reach deck five but holographic forces are massing near the breach. If I'm to get into the holodeck, I'll need help.
KARR: Take the hunters from the Klingon simulation.
TURANJ: When I find Captain Janeway, should I kill her?
KARR: No. Bring her to me.
TURANJ: This is no longer a game. This hunt is real. We should kill the prey.
KARR: The Voyager crew must remain alive to make repairs, or we could lose everything. This vessel, it's technology. You said that you understood the importance of what we're doing here.
TURANJ: I'll get the hunters.

[Le Coeur de Lion]
CHAKOTAY: We think it's a secret compound the Nazi's built after they took over the city. What I don't understand is how they managed to camouflage it so well.
TUVOK: Indeed. We've been scrutinizing German troop movements since the Occupation. We knew nothing of this installation.
PARIS: Don't sweat it. Our recon planes missed it too. Any idea what they're hiding in there, Captain?
CHAKOTAY: We saw all sorts of scientific equipment. Strange metals, instruments we can't identify. I've relayed the findings to Military Intelligence. They believe this could be an advanced munitions laboratory, designed to build some kind of super-weapon.
PARIS: We've got to put it out of business.
CHAKOTAY: I've already sent three squads in, but the Nazi's are putting up one hell of a fight. I've requested additional troops. Lieutenant, this restaurant will serve as our command post. Set up the transmitter and post guards around the perimeter.
PARIS: Yes, sir.
CHAKOTAY: You've done a bang-up job, but we'll take it from here. Tell your people to lie low, and that the Americans said thanks.
TORRES: This is our city. We have no intention of lying low.
CHAKOTAY: Listen, honey, the time for sneaking messages back and forth is over. This is war, and you aren't soldiers.
TUVOK: He's right. We have weapons hidden throughout the city. Brigitte will tell you where they are.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds good. Lieutenant, take care of it.
PARIS: I can see you haven't changed.
TORRES: Bring me one of those street maps. Most of the guns, we stole from the German army, the explosives we bought on the black market.
PARIS: We could use both.
TORRES: Our biggest stockpile is buried here, two meters below the last row of seats of the Cinéma Mystère. You remember it, don't you?
PARIS: Hmm. I'm No Angel, with Mae West. There's heavy fighting in that area. What's the best way in?
TORRES: We dug a tunnel that leads directly to the stockpile. Here, I'll show you. Incidentally, we saw Death Takes a Holiday.
PARIS: It was the Mae West movie, I'm sure of it. She was singing Sister Honky Tonk, and I put my arm around you. And during the courtroom scene, I kissed you.
TORRES: You know, I think you're right.
PARIS: I guess the experience wasn't exactly burned into your memory.
TORRES: Not the movie, but I do remember the kiss.
PARIS: So, did you get my last letter?
TORRES: You mean the one asking me to leave France?
PARIS: Germany was about to invade. I thought you'd be safer back in the States with me. But, I guess you found someone else to take care of you.
TORRES: There's never been anybody else.
PARIS: Then who?
TORRES: He's second in command of the Sainte Claire occupation. The first time he saw me, he said I was pretty. I took advantage of his interest. He doesn't know I'm in the Resistance. The child is his.
PARIS: I'm sorry.
TORRES: So am I.
JANEWAY: Hold your fire.
TUVOK: Katrine. You survived.
JANEWAY: Are you surprised?
TUVOK: Very. Nazi headquarters was destroyed. We assumed you were killed in the explosion.
TORRES: What is that? Some kind of an escape tunnel?
SEVEN: That's precisely what it is.
CHAKOTAY: You're the leader of the local Resistance.
JANEWAY: That's right.
CHAKOTAY: Captain Miller, Fifth Armored Infantry. This is Lieutenant Davis. I take it you've seen the German bunker we uncovered?
JANEWAY: I just came from there.
CHAKOTAY: We suspect it's a munitions lab. Can you confirm that?
JANEWAY: Yes, a munitions lab.
CHAKOTAY: Then this is it. We're calling in an air strike. Contact the RAF.
JANEWAY: Hold on, Captain. There's an easier way to do this with the minimum of casualties.
CHAKOTAY: Let's hear it.
JANEWAY: I've located the generator that powers the entire complex. It's heavily guarded, but with your help I can get close enough to set off some explosives.
CHAKOTAY: My orders are to blow the entire compound before the Germans send in reinforcements.
JANEWAY: I saw technology in there you can't begin to imagine. Warheads powerful enough to destroy this entire valley if they're accidentally detonated. Call for an air strike, it may be the last call you make.
CHAKOTAY: How can you get close enough?
JANEWAY: This tunnel. I've been watching this compound for several months, and I've got a man inside.
PARIS: The place is crawling with Krauts.
JANEWAY: Yhat's why I need your help. If your men can clear these two corridors it'll give us access to this entryway. Get me there, and I can take care of the rest.
CHAKOTAY: C Company, what's there status?
PARIS: They're holding position about two hundred yards from here.
CHAKOTAY: Get them on the horn. You'll lead us into the compound, but I'm coming with you.
JANEWAY: I work better alone.
CHAKOTAY: This isn't a request, it's an order.
JANEWAY: Order? Do I look like I'm wearing one of your uniforms? I go alone.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you needed our help. I'll be right behind you.
JANEWAY: Even if I manage to disrupt the neural interfaces, we've still got a war to fight. We're going to need something a lot more effective than these old firearms.
SEVEN: I believe I can enhance these weapons using Borg technology, but I'll have to access Cargo Bay two.
JANEWAY: If something goes wrong and I don't succeed, you'll be the only one left who knows what's really going on.
SEVEN: Understood.
TUVOK: Have our suspicions been confirmed?
JANEWAY: Suspicions?
TUVOK: Is she a collaborator?
JANEWAY: I think we can trust her.
TUVOK: Are you certain? Three hours ago you were prepared to put a bullet in her head.
JANEWAY: She's on our side.
TUVOK: In your absence, I may be forced to make that determination for myself.
JANEWAY: I've already made it. You're not to harm her. Is that understood?
TUVOK: German forces are advancing on our position.
CHAKOTAY: Let's give them a warm welcome. Mademoiselle, after you.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Punctured lung, arterial rupture, fracture of the thirteenth vertebra. He needs surgery.
MEDIC: First and second degree burns to the face and neck. Treat him.
EMH: His injuries are minor. He can wait.
MEDIC: I said treat him.
EMH: This man has massive internal injuries. If I don't operate now, he'll die.
MEDIC: Treat the burns, or I'll deactivate your program.
EMH: What kind of physician are you? The first rule of triage states that the critical injuries take priority.
MEDIC: You're rules, not mine.
MEDIC: From now on, leave the wounded prey where they fall. Tend only to our own.

[Holodeck two - Klingon program]
NEELIX: I'm as dry as the crater at Tarpahk. In the middle of the dry season. When it's dry!
KLINGON: No! I'm not done!
NEELIX: Share with your brothers. It's the eve of battle. I may be drunk, but I can still send your soul to the next world and leave your body here to rot. Though from the stench of it, I'd say it's begun to already.

[Corridor]
KIM: Tom!
PARIS: Wrong guy. You speak English?
KIM: Yeah. I speak English.
PARIS: American?
KIM: I didn't see him coming. You saved my life.
PARIS: Why are you out of uniform? What Company are you with?
KIM: Well, er, I'm a civilian.
PARIS: In the middle of a battle zone in France? The hell you are.
PARIS: Go one, I'm right behind you. Look, I don't have time for twenty questions. You say you're an American? All right then. If Betty Grable came around that corner, what part of her would you be staring at? Sorry. Time's up.
KIM: Her legs! I'd be staring at her legs.
PARIS: Bull's-eye. Lucky for you.

[Jefferies tube]
CHAKOTAY: You're a gung-ho kind of gal, aren't ya?
JANEWAY: Does that bother you?
CHAKOTAY: Nope. Just not used to it, that's all. The girls back home are a little different.
JANEWAY: I guess when it comes to my people's safety, this girl tends to get a little gung-ho.
CHAKOTAY: Nothing to apologize for. I'm the same way with my men. There's not a day goes by when I don't think to myself, I'm going to get 'em back safely, even if I die trying.
JANEWAY: I know the feeling. We're about to enter some caves that run under the town.
CHAKOTAY: Caves?
JANEWAY: We're going to meet our contact there. I should warn you. There are eccentric people who live in the caves, but don't be alarmed.

[Holodeck two - Klingon program]
JANEWAY: Good evening, gentlemen.
NEELIX: Who are you? How did you get past our battle lines?
JANEWAY: We're friends, allies.
NEELIX: Sent by what house?
JANEWAY: The house of K'toh-maag.
NEELIX: K'toh-maag. I never heard of it.
JANEWAY: I'm not surprised. It's a long way from here.
NEELIX: This battle doesn't concern you.
JANEWAY: Maybe not. But we'd be honored to fight alongside such great warriors. If you prefer, we'll take our weapons elsewhere.
NEELIX: Wait! I'll consider your request. But first, prove your fortitude. Drink! SanRoh t'patoh Cha!
CHAKOTAY: I guess my French is a little rusty.
JANEWAY: Don't drink it. It's twice as strong as whisky. I'll be right back.
NEELIX (voiceover): Prove your fortitude, warrior. Drink!
EMH: Captain. Is, is it you?
JANEWAY: Yes. We've got to disable the rest of those interfaces.
EMH: The controls are routed through the surgical console in Sickbay, but it will take time to disable all of them.
JANEWAY: We don't have time. I'll access the Jefferies tube that runs under that deck plate, set a few charges and blow out the console.
EMH: Charges? The Hirogen have seized the armory.
JANEWAY: No problem. I've got all the ammo I need right here.
EMH: Holographic explosives?
JANEWAY: With the safety protocols offline, they're as good as the real thing.
NEELIX: Another of your warriors?
JANEWAY: Yes.
NEELIX: He's a frail looking thing.
JANEWAY: I'll contact you when I've disabled the rest of the interfaces. In the meantime, stay here.
EMH: With the Klingons?
JANEWAY: Believe me, it's peaceful compared to Sainte Claire. Captain.
NEELIX: Ha!
EMH: Please, don't do that.

[Le Coeur de Lion]
PARIS: They've got us outnumbered.
TORRES: And outgunned. They're setting up a machine gun emplacement across the street.
TUVOK: Where have you been?
SEVEN: Obtaining supplies.
TUVOK: What is this?
SEVEN: German technology taken from their compound. I can use them to enhance our weapons.

[Sainte Claire - Street]
TURANJ: I've cornered several Voyager crewmen. They've taken refuge in a guarded building. I need three nucleonic charges to penetrate the structure.

[Bridge]
KARR: Nucleonic charges could damage the holodeck further. Use your hand weapons.

[Sainte Claire - Street]
TURANJ: Then I'll need more hunters.
KARR (voiceover): They're on the way.

[Jefferies tube]
JANEWAY: Damn, there's a level nine forcefield around the surgical console. We'll have to go in and shut it down.
CHAKOTAY: Forcefield?
JANEWAY: I'll explain later. Set the detonator for five minutes.

[Doctor's office]
MEDIC: Five hunters have been killed in the last hour. You must engage the safety protocols.
KARR (screen): Those protocols aren't functioning.
MEDIC: Then I'll need assistance to
MEDIC: Stand by.

[Sickbay]
MEDIC: You.
JANEWAY: Get him out of here.
CHAKOTAY: There are ten pounds of dynamite under the floor set to blow in less than three minutes. Move.

[Bridge]
KARR: Bridge to Sickbay. Sickbay, respond. Bridge to deck five. Converge on the Sickbay.

[Le Coeur de Lion]
SEVEN: We are on the holodeck under attack. You must
TURANJ: Bridge, this is holodeck one. I have seized the building, and I have found another access to this holodeck.

[Ready room]
KARR: Seal it. How many captives?

[Le Coeur de Lion]
TURANJ: Four. Their neural interfaces have been disabled. I will make the kill.
KARR (voiceover): No.

[Ready room]
KARR: They are not prey, they are hostages. I'll need them.

[Le Coeur de Lion]
TURANJ: As you wish. You, help me seal this hatch.
PARIS: What do you think? A boy or a girl?
SEVEN: It's a holographic projection.
TORRES: Unfortunately, it's a very good projection. I feel twenty kilos heavier. It even kicks.
TUVOK: I don't recognize this program.
PARIS: I do. He's wearing a Nazi uniform. We're on Earth during the Second World War.
SEVEN: Nazi?
PARIS: Totalitarian fanatics bent on world conquest. The Borg of their day. No offense.
SEVEN: None taken.
TORRES: What are you staring at?
KAPITAN: Get up. You deceived me.
TORRES: Really?
KAPITAN: I should've seen through your flirtations.
TORRES: If you say so.
KAPITAN: The thought of you carrying my child disgusts me.
TORRES: You're not the only one.
PARIS: Look, I don't know what went on between the two of you, but it's obviously over now.
KAPITAN: I see you're acquainted. Do you find her as attractive as I once did? I'll miss our nights together.
PARIS: Pig!
TURANJ: Put the weapon away. Now.
PARIS: Funny, he doesn't seem like your type.

[Holodeck two - Klingon program]
NEELIX: Doctor, trouble.
EMH: Now what?
NEELIX: The Klingons are starting to wake up from their nap.
EMH: All right, all right, hold on.
NEELIX: What are you doing?
EMH: I've established an interface with holodeck one. I want to monitor what's going on over there in case the crew needs my help.
KLINGON: Qapla'!
NEELIX: Uh-oh. What should we do?
EMH: Not having a cure for Klingon hangovers, I couldn't tell you.
KLINGON: The battle has begun. Our plan is to penetrate the enemy's position, cut his forces in half.
NEELIX: And a very good plan it is. Best of luck with it.
KLINGON: You will lead us into battle, Great Warrior.
NEELIX: Maybe I'll just watch from here. Try to offer up some pointers as things develop.
KLINGON: Sto'Kar! Lead the attack or die here by my hand.
EMH: You heard him. Don't argue with the man, run along! I'll reattach any severed limbs. Just don't misplace them.
KLINGON: You! Cover our flank!
KLINGON: Qapla'!
NEELIX: Qapla'.
EMH: Tally-ho.

[Ready room]
KARR: Enter. Leave her.
JANEWAY: I see you've done some redecorating.
KARR: Your attempt to retake this vessel was inventive. From the day I seized Voyager, you put up a dauntless fight. But your fight is over now. You're going to help me shut down these simulations and repair the holodecks.
JANEWAY: No. We'll destroy this ship before we surrender it.
KARR: Don't threaten me, Captain. I've faced far more intimidating prey than you. If this fight continues, I promise you I will hunt down and kill every member of your crew.
JANEWAY: Well, by then this ship will be damaged beyond repair and there won't be much of a trophy left, will there?
KARR: Perhaps I should kill you and find someone who will cooperate.
JANEWAY: Good luck. You'll get the same response from all of them.
KARR: You don't realize what's at stake.
JANEWAY: I know what's at stake. Your sick little game.
KARR: This is not a game!
JANEWAY: Then what is it?
KARR: I'm trying to create a future for my people.
JANEWAY: Future?
KARR: I don't expect you to understand. You are prey.
JANEWAY: You underestimate us.
KARR: Yes, perhaps I do.
JANEWAY: I'm listening
KARR: My people are hunting themselves into extinction. Your holodeck technology might offer us an alternative, a new way of life. Instead of scattering ourselves across the quadrant in pursuit of prey, we could simulate the hunt and give ourselves a chance to rebuild our civilization.
JANEWAY: And confine your killing to holograms?
KARR: With the safety protocols offline, the pursuit is just as challenging.
JANEWAY: Oh, I understand what you're trying to do, but then why have you been torturing us? Why have you thrown my crew into one brutal simulation after another?
KARR: I've been studying your behavior, as I do with all my prey. But your holodecks allowed me to go further, to explore your culture, your history. I must admit, I've learned a great deal.
JANEWAY: How so?
KARR: Your people have faced extinction many times, but you've always managed to avoid it. You seem to recognize the need for change.
JANEWAY: Yes. You've got one of those moments running right now on the holodeck. We called it World War Two.
KARR: One of your most difficult eras. And yet you survived.
JANEWAY: It wasn't easy.
KARR: You are a resilient species. I admire your cunning.
JANEWAY: Let's end this. I'll call a ceasefire and we can try to contain the damage. I want my ship back, but in return I will give you what you need to create the holodeck technology. It would be cunning for you to agree.

[Le Coeur de Lion]
TURANJ: Synthetic, and undrinkable. I am tired of this simulation.
KAPITAN: Mein Herr, a word with you.
TURANJ: And these holograms are becoming annoying as well.
KAPITAN: What are we waiting for? Why don't we execute these prisoners?
TURANJ: Orders from the Kommandant.
KAPITAN: If I may speak freely. The Kommandant has been acting strangely the past few days. He's been questioning German superiority. Perhaps we shouldn't follow his orders so blindly.
TURANJ: You will do as he says, as long as I tell you to.
KAPITAN: I don't know how much longer I can stand being trapped in here.
TURANJ: Perhaps you would enjoy some entertainment. Sing.
SEVEN: I will not.
TURANJ: Sing or you will die.
SEVEN: Then I'll die.
TUVOK: Seven, you are a valued member of this crew. The logical response would be to grant his request.
SEVEN: Logic is irrelevant. One day the Borg will assimilate your species despite your arrogance. When that moment arrives, remember me.
KARR (voiceover): Bridge to holodeck one.
TURANJ: Yes.

[Bridge]
KARR: I've come to an agreement with Captain Janeway. Call a ceasefire.

[Le Coeur de Lion]
TURANJ: What?
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY (voiceover): It's true, Tuvok.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Our first order of business is to call off the troops. I want you to find Chakotay

[Le Coeur de Lion]
JANEWAY (voiceover): And have him convince his soldiers to pull out of the city.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
KARR (voiceover): Turanj

[Bridge]
KARR: Order our hunters to end the fighting.

[Le Coeur de Lion]
KAPITAN: This is madness. We're winning this battle.

[Le Coeur de Lion]
KARR (voiceover): Our civilization depends on this agreement.

[Le Coeur de Lion]
TURANJ: Acknowledged. You heard him, release the captives. I'll tell the others. Order all units to withdraw to these positions
KAPITAN: I have always thought highly of you.
TURANJ: Have you?
KAPITAN: Yes. But the Kommandant is a fool. He doesn't understand. He's never embraced the Fuhrer or his vision. One does not cooperate with decadent forms of life. One hunts them down and eliminates them. The Kommandant speaks of civilization. The ancient Romans were civilized. The Jews are civilized. But in all its moral decay, Rome fell to the spears of our ancestors, as the Jews are falling now. Look at our destiny. The field of red, the purity of German blood. The blazing white circle of the sun that sanctified that blood. No one can deny us, no power on Earth or beyond. Not the Christian Savior, not the God of the Jews. We are driven by the very force that gives life to the universe itself. We must countermand the Kommandant's orders, stay and fight. We must be faithful to who we are.
TURANJ: You two, follow me.

[Sainte Claire - Street]
CHAKOTAY: All units, clear the valley. Return to your previous positions. We're calling a ceasefire. Repeat, cease fire. Well, the word is out.
TUVOK: Whether it will be acted upon is another question.
CHAKOTAY: Oh, they'll follow orders. I'm their commanding officer, remember?
PARIS: Keep it moving! Keep it moving! Get the lead out of your pants!
SEVEN: Mid-twentieth century American slang.
PARIS: You got a problem with that, sister?
SEVEN: You're enjoying this simulation. I find that peculiar, given the circumstances.
PARIS: Loosen up, baby doll, the war's almost over.
TORRES: So much for the ceasefire.
KAPITAN: Fire! Fire!

[Holodeck two - Klingon program]
EMH: I've been monitoring the other simulation, and the fighting's getting worse. The crew is taking heavy casualties.
NEELIX: How can we help?
EMH: I'll transfer my program to holodeck one. You take the Jefferies tube and meet me there.
NEELIX: There's only the two of us.
EMH: Nevertheless we have to try and. Even half drunk, Klingons are among the best warriors in the galaxy.
NEELIX: But they're already in the middle of a war with the house of whatever it is.
EMH: Then you'll just have to convince them that there's a more important battle to be waged.
NEELIX: Me?
EMH: You are their Great Warrior. Lead them.
NEELIX: Pardon me, gentlemen. I wonder if I might have a word with you.
EMH: They're Klingons, not kittens.
NEELIX: You will listen!

[Holodeck lab]
JANEWAY: These sensors indicate you've placed holo-emitters on decks five through twelve? No wonder the system breached. You've turned Voyager into one big holodeck.
KARR: Can you shut it down?
JANEWAY: Yes, but I'm going to have to initiate an overload. We'll worry about making repairs later. Right now we've got to put an end to those simulations. Janeway to Ensign Kim.

[Bridge]
KIM: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Harry, I'm going to need your help overloading the holo-emitter network.

[Holodeck lab]
JANEWAY: I'm transferring optical processor control to you now. Start charging the secondary power relays.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): We'll use them to trigger the overload.
KIM: I'm on it.

[Holodeck lab]
JANEWAY: It's going to take some time. There are over eight hundred emitters that we have to
TURANJ: Move away from the controls.
KARR: Why haven't you ordered the ceasefire?
TURANJ: Move away from the controls.
KARR: Listen to me.
TURANJ: No!
JANEWAY: What are you waiting for?
TURANJ: I am a hunter. You are my prey. Run.

[Sainte Claire - Street]
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. Out. Our holographic allies are losing ground. The German troops are surrounding the city.
PARIS: I don't know how much longer we can hold them off. These weapons are pretty crude. They're not much help.
TORRES: Maybe we should fall back?
CHAKOTAY: Where to? They're coming in from all sides. Tuvok, any chance we can get through that breach in the hologrid.
TUVOK: Unlikely. Twenty more Hirogen have taken up position near the opening. We are outnumbered.
CHAKOTAY: How's it going?
SEVEN: I'm modifying this explosive device to emit a photonic burst. It will be harmless to organic tissue but it should disrupt all holographic activity within twenty meters.
CHAKOTAY: We'll try to buy you some time.

[Bridge]
HIROGEN: I'll be in Sickbay.

[Sainte Claire - Street]
NAZI: Schnell! Schell!
CHAKOTAY: They're closing in. Seven!
KAPITAN: Surrender.
KAPITAN: Verdamt. Bring that one to me. I will spare your life for now, but only because you are carrying a German child.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Please don't do this. I can be of use to you. I can help you repair the ship. Don't kill me.

[Sainte Claire - Street]
KAPITAN: Against the wall. Your deaths will serve the glory of the Reich. Prepare to fire.
NEELIX: Fight on, warriors! This way!
EMH: Qapla', gentlemen. Qapla'!

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: This hunt is over. Tell your hunters to stand down. I'll use this if you force me to.

[Sainte Claire - Street]
CHAKOTAY: It's over. Let's go.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51715.2. The damage to Voyager has been extreme. Both sides have taken heavy casualties, and it's clear that no one is going to win this conflict. The fighting has reached a standstill and the remaining Hirogen have agreed to negotiate a truce.

[Cargo Bay two]
HIROGEN: What is this?
JANEWAY: An optronic datacore. You can use it to create holodeck technology on your own vessels. I made a promise with your leader before he died, that I would give this knowledge to the Hirogen. Take it.
YOUNG HIROGEN: His ideas were unconventional. I do not share them.
JANEWAY: Was he any more unconventional than you are? Calling a ceasefire with your prey? Only a few days ago, the thought of speaking with us on equal terms would've been inconceivable, but here we are. Accept this trophy. You can use it to create a new future for your people. At the very least, you can hang it on your bulkhead.

[Holodeck - Grease Monkey program]
PARIS: Ow! Ow! What do you think you're doing, Doc?
EMH: An impromptu auditory exam.
PARIS: Did I pass?
EMH: With flying colors, which leads me to believe you did hear me when I requested you meet me this morning.
PARIS: You're right. I forgot.
EMH: I see. I realize your Sickbay training is purely voluntary, but you haven't spent any time there in several weeks. And when I try to find you, you're always in the holodeck.
PARIS: Correct me if I'm wrong, Doc, but we haven't been treating anything more serious than an ingrown toenail.
EMH: That's beside the point. If an emergency were to happen you must be prepared. You're too far behind in your medical texts to be wasting your time in the holodeck.
PARIS: If it's any consolation, I have spent most of the morning immersed in a complicated surgical procedure.
EMH: Really.
PARIS: A classic case of atrophied shocks. They needed to be extracted to prevent chrome abrasion. It was touch and go for a while, but the prognosis is excellent.
EMH: You'll be ready for neurosurgery in no time.
PARIS: Take a look at this, Doc. This is a fully stock 1969 Chevy Camaro, one of the earliest muscle cars ever made.
PARIS: Imagine, Northern California, late twentieth century. You're cruising up Highway One, the woofers are pounding, the wind is whipping through your hair.
EMH: Medieval safety constraints, internal combustion system producing lethal levels of carbon monoxide. Hmm. I stand corrected. This may be just what you need to get you back to Sickbay.
PARIS: I guess I should have known this wouldn't interest you. It's too much fun.
EMH: This isn't about fun, Mister Paris. Serving in Sickbay is a privilege. I'd expect you to realize that.
PARIS: Oh, I do. I'll be there. Soon.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Lieutenant Paris, report to the bridge immediately.
PARIS: I'm on my way.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Somebody call for a driver?
JANEWAY: Take your station, Tom. Anything on scans, Harry?
KIM: I'm picking up another spatial disturbance two thousand kilometers away.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM: I have no idea. It looks like space is folding in on itself.
JANEWAY: Shields to full.
KIM: It's an alien vessel, one occupant aboard.
PARIS: Captain, it looks like that ship is being powered by a coaxial warp drive.
CHAKOTAY: Coaxial what?
PARIS: It's a hypothetical propulsion system. Starfleet engineers have been dreaming about it for years. In theory, it can literally fold the fabric of space allowing a ship to travel instantaneously across huge distances.
TUVOK: The alien warp drive is overloading.
PARIS: In theory, a coaxial drive explosion could collapse space within a radius of a billion kilometers. In theory.
JANEWAY: Let's keep theory from becoming reality. Red alert!
CHAKOTAY: Scan the vessel. Can we beam the pilot out?
KIM: Too much interference.
PARIS: That ship's about had it, Captain. The coaxial core is breaching.
TUVOK: We should vacant this area of space at once.
PARIS: We can't just leave him like this.
JANEWAY: Try one more hail.
KIM: Nothing. Maybe he's ignoring us.
PARIS: Or maybe he's unconscious. We've got to do something.
JANEWAY: Suggestions?
PARIS: A symmetric warp field. That should contain any instabilities in his space-folding core.
CHAKOTAY: How can you be sure?
PARIS: Advanced subspace geometry. It's the one course at the academy where I actually paid attention. We'll tractor him in to kill his momentum, generate a warp field around his ship.
TUVOK: His flightpath is erratic. We'd be risking collision.
PARIS: Captain, I can make this work.
JANEWAY: Do it.
PARIS: Passing through the residual folds in space. Steady. Got him!
TUVOK: I've extended our warp field around his vessel. His core is powering down.
JANEWAY: Nice flying, Tom.
PARIS: My pleasure.
KIM: We're finally receiving a hail.
CHAKOTAY: Open a channel.
JANEWAY: Captain Janeway, of the Federation Starship Voyager. Do you need medical attention?
STETH (screen): I'm fine, Captain. Unfortunately my ship is not.
JANEWAY: If you need to make repairs, we might be able to help.
STETH (screen): That's very generous.
JANEWAY: We'll beam you aboard in a few minutes. Stand by.
STETH (screen): Thank you.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: Energize.
JANEWAY: Welcome.
STETH: Captain, I know you put yourselves in danger to rescue me. I want to thank you.
JANEWAY: I'm glad we could help.
STETH: I was so eager to test my new engine, I pushed it beyond it's limits.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Coaxial warp doesn't seem to be the smoothest way to travel.
STETH: It's a violent procedure, but it allows a ship to travel through space at incredible speeds.
TUVOK: Considering the dangers, this method of travel hardly seems logical.
STETH: That's probably true, but if I were worrying about danger I wouldn't have become a test pilot.
JANEWAY: Where are you from?
STETH: The fourth planet of the Benthan system. That's about twenty light years from here.
JANEWAY: I'll speak to my engineers about helping you with repairs. Without your coaxial drive, it's a long way home.

[Chakotay's office]
CHAKOTAY: Come in.
PARIS: I'd like to ask you a favor. I need a change of pace. I'd like to help Steth repair his ship.
CHAKOTAY: This isn't a good time to ask.
PARIS: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: I've been reading a report from the Doctor. You didn't show up today.
PARIS: I was a little busy this morning. Saving someone's life, as I recall.
CHAKOTAY: Is there something wrong, Tom? Anything bothering you?
PARIS: Nothing is wrong. Since when is not wanting to spend time with the Doctor a capital offense? You'd have to throw the whole crew in the brig for that one.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe. I was wondering if there's something on your mind. You're showing up for your duty shifts, you do what's required, but your heart doesn't seem to be in it. You seem preoccupied.
PARIS: Like I said, I think I need a change of pace.
CHAKOTAY: You're a different man from the one that came on board four years ago. You've taken charge of your life, turned yourself around. I'd hate to see you ruin it.
PARIS: I won't. With your permission, I'll report to Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Permission denied. Report to Steth's ship instead. Assist in the repairs. We need our best man on the job.

[Steth's ship]
STETH: And on my way back, I made the mistake of flying the prototype through restricted Entaban territory.
PARIS: And?
STETH: And the Entabans weren't too pleased to see me. I limped back to the engineers on Benthos with phaser holes through their brand new extanium fuselage. I think they would have been happy to see phaser holes through me.
PARIS: When I was sixteen, I followed an ancient human custom. I took my father's shuttle out for a joy ride, and proceeded to fry all the relays.
STETH: I'm guessing he wasn't happy about getting it back.
PARIS: Actually he didn't. As far as I know, it's still at the bottom of Lake Tahoe.
STETH: Here it is, the coaxial induction drive. It draws in subatomic particles and reconfigures their internal geometries.
PARIS: And this is what makes folding space possible?
STETH: At least in spurts. Unfortunately, particle instabilities keep overloading my engines. But I'm going to make it work. I have to keep in motion. I don't like the thought of settling down. Too many new ships to drive. Too many intriguing women.
PARIS: Yeah, I guess so.
STETH: When I get this ship back I'm going to be doing the first test on a new Mithran class flyer. I'm told it's more advanced than any warship in the quadrant. Why don't you come with me? We'd have a great time. You could meet up with Voyager afterwards.
PARIS: I'd love to do that. It sounds very exciting. But I have responsibilities here. People who count on me. B'Elanna would be furious. B'Elanna. I have to go.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: So, you started without me.
TORRES: I finished without you. You're a little late.
PARIS: Sorry. I was helping Steth repair his ship.
TORRES: How's it going?
PARIS: Pretty slow. We're both stuck on how to prevent the particle overloads in his propulsion system.
TORRES: Have you tried an isokinetic containment field?
PARIS: Yeah, that's the first thing we tried.
TORRES: How long do you think repairs are going to take?
PARIS: I don't know.
TORRES: I was just hoping that maybe you could help me recalibrate the plasma manifolds tonight.
PARIS: Ah. I, er, I probably should go help Steth.
TORRES: Tom, is there something wrong?
PARIS: Why are you interrogating me?
TORRES: I didn't think I was.
PARIS: It sounds more like you want me to account for every minute that I'm not with you.
TORRES: That's ridiculous.
PARIS: Can't I have some time to myself? Can't I do what I want without having to report every detail of it to you?
TORRES: Tom, you can do whatever you want. I just wanted to know if there was something wrong. I mean, lately you've been canceling dates. You hide out for hours in the holodeck.
PARIS: I am not hiding anything. That is ridiculous.
TORRES: Is it? You haven't even told me what holodeck program this is that has you so fascinated.
PARIS: The Dancing Girls of Ninipia Prime. It's very entertaining,
TORRES: Very funny.
PARIS: You're overreacting.
TORRES: I am not overreacting. There's obviously something going on and you're refusing to admit it.
NEELIX: Good evening, Lieutenants. I see you don't have your dinner yet, Tom. Can I get you something?
PARIS: I'm really not hungry.
TORRES: Excuse me. Are you going to talk about this? Because if you're not, I don't want to sit here anymore.
PARIS: If you can carry on an adult conversation without all the histrionics
TORRES: Good night, Tom.

[Steth's ship]
STETH: Computer, run a DNA stability analysis. How long before my genome reverts to it's previous form?
COMPUTER: Time to reversion three hours thirteen minutes. Complete genome recovery is imminent.

[Corridor]
PARIS: So I was lying in bed last night when it hit me. What you need is a carburettor.
STETH: A carburettor?
PARIS: Yes. It's a device that's hundreds of years old. I can't believe I didn't think of it yesterday.
STETH: Wait. Hundreds of years old? Surely that couldn't be of any use to us now.
PARIS: It all goes back to basics. You would be surprised at how often I find solutions to twenty fourth century problems in twentieth century technology. Computer, access Paris program alpha one, Grease Monkey.
STETH: Grease Monkey?
PARIS: Mechanic lingo.

[Holodeck - Grease Monkey program]
PARIS: A car's engine can't run on pure fuel, so the carburettor supplies it with a mixture of vaporized fuel and air.
STETH: And you think we need a device like that to dilute the particle stream as it enters the coaxial drive.
PARIS: Exactly! And a spare polaric modulator from Voyager's impulse drive should do the trick.
STETH: Subatomic dilution! It never would have occurred to me. I think you've solved it.
PARIS: Well, we can run a few simulations on the holodeck before we actually try it.
STETH: I owe you a lot.
PARIS: You can thank my lucky toolbox. It's gotten me out of hot water more than once.
STETH: You're lucky to be stationed on a ship like this. Replicators to feed and clothe you, holotechnology to cater to every whim. Hallways filled with women.
PARIS: Yeah. It's great.
STETH: You don't sound convinced. Aren't you happy here?
PARIS: Of course I'm happy. I'm very happy. I mean, I pilot one of the most advanced ships in Starfleet, I have a beautiful girlfriend, I'm respected. I have everything that I've ever wanted.
STETH: You're lucky, You're part of a family, part of a structure. You have rules to guide you. You don't have to worry about making a lot of choices. I usually go to bed at night not knowing what the next day has in store, what trouble I might get into. You don't have to worry about those things. You're very settled.
PARIS: I remember those days. I used to be a lot like you. Going anywhere, doing whatever I wanted, making my own rules.
STETH: Well, then there's hope for me yet, Maybe someday I'll settle down too. But for now I prefer to stay on the move.
PARIS: Sometimes I wish that's what I was doing.
STETH: Things'll turn around for you. I've always found that change is inevitable. It comes when you least expect it.
PARIS: Yeah, I suppose.
STETH: Now, are we ready to try this carburettor idea on my ship?
PARIS: Just give me five more minutes to finish up here and I'll be right with you.
STETH: Five minutes. And Tom? Don't dismiss the suggestion I made, about coming with me to fly the new ship. It might be fun to escape the shackles for a while.
PARIS: Hmm.

[Cargo Bay two]
STETH: Computer, access all files pertaining to Lieutenant Tom Paris. Download into memory core alpha.
COMPUTER: Please enter authorisation code.
COMPUTER: Access granted. Commencing download.
STETH: Hello. I'm Steth, a guest of your captain.
SEVEN: I have been appraised of your presence on Voyager. You are not authorized to access the ship's computers.
STETH: You must be Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: That is correct.
STETH: Tom mentioned you. He thinks you're extremely intelligent.
SEVEN: Lieutenant Paris' opinion of me is irrelevant to your being in this room.
STETH: Well, er, Tom felt we needed some files for polaric modulators, but he was called away before we could access them. I thought I'd find them myself and help out.
SEVEN: You were mistaken. He must be present to download these files.
STETH: Oh, I'm about to meet him at the holodeck. We can find the files there.
SEVEN: Voyager's hierarchy is complex. See that you familiarize yourself with it.
STETH: Good advice. I'll do that.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51762.4. The repairs to Steth's coaxial drive have been completed well ahead of schedule.

[Steth's ship]
PARIS: Everything here looks good. Just give me one more second to check the flow field parameters.
STETH: Go ahead.
PARIS: It's my box wrench. I've been looking all over for this.
STETH: I know I should have asked you, Tom, but I needed it for an experiment.
PARIS: To check your new carburettor?
STETH: Not quite. You're the first humans I've met and that wrench had enough cellular residue on it for me to check your DNA. I have good news. We're compatible.
PARIS: Consider this a favor. I know how unhappy you've been with this dreary, settled life so I'm taking it off your hands. I'm betting there's still some fun to be had here. Voyager is a great ship, Tom. I'll take good care of it.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Sorry I'm late.
JANEWAY: We were beginning to wonder if you were ever coming back.
KIM: His ship is powering engines.
JANEWAY: Something wrong, Tom?
PARIS: It's nothing.
PARIS: I'm just really going to miss that guy.

[Mess hall]
CHAKOTAY: Mind if I join you?
PARIS: Not at all. Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay will do, Tom. You don't carry this rules thing too far. I've been discussing your engineering report with the captain. She was wondering if we could implement some of Steth's technology here on Voyager.
PARIS: Really?
CHAKOTAY: We thought maybe you could start on a shuttle. Do you think you can do it?
PARIS: I'm sure I can.
CHAKOTAY: Great. You can start right after you finish with the Doctor.
PARIS: The Doctor.
CHAKOTAY: He needs your help in Sickbay. I told him you'd be there.
PARIS: Of course.

[Corridor]
CREWMAN: Lieutenant.
PARIS: Hi.
KIM: I know you've been avoiding the Doctor, but don't tell me you've forgotten where Sickbay is?
PARIS: Oh! Not yet. I was just trying to figure out if there's a more efficient route between Sickbay and my quarters.
KIM: I didn't realize you were that eager to get there. So tell me, are they ready yet?
PARIS: Ah, not yet. But they will be, soon.
KIM: Great. Hey, let me know if you have any problems. Polyduranide can be tough to replicate.
PARIS: Oh, sure can be.
KIM: I can't wait to get my hands around one of those clubs. Ensign Kaplan won't know what hit her.
PARIS: What?
KIM: We're going to play golf with her. We scheduled a rematch, remember?
PARIS: Oh, of course. I can't wait.
KIM: Have you been working on your putting? You missed both those two-footers last time.
PARIS: I won't let it happen again.
KIM: All right. Give the Doc my best.
PARIS: I will.
PARIS: If I ever find him.

[Sickbay]
EMH: You're early, Mister Paris. I see some good came from my report to Commander Chakotay. Let's put these extra few minutes to good use. Begin with a thorough biobed diagnostic. I want you to recalibrate each physiosensor, making sure to enter each metabolic referent precisely.
PARIS: Okay.
EMH: When you're through with that, run a protein structure analysis and then continue your review of the thirty seven steps of a cardiopulmonary reconstruction procedure. I'll leave you to your biobeds.
EMH: Did you forget to disengage the scan emitters?
PARIS: Sorry.
EMH: Mister Paris.
PARIS: I don't know what's wrong.
EMH: I realize it's complicated, but you must try again.
PARIS: Actually, I'm not feeling so well.
EMH: How fortunate you're already in Sickbay. I'll run a few scans.
PARIS: No, no, Doc, that's all right. To be perfectly honest with you. This is so frustrating for me. I usually pick things up a lot faster than this.
EMH: You're here to learn, Mister Paris. It will get easier with time.
PARIS: That's easy for you to say.
EMH: Excuse me?
PARIS: Well, no offense, Doctor, but you were programmed to be a medical genius. Things always come easy to you. Me, I'm just a pilot. A grease monkey. And as hard as I might try to become a better assistant, it's clear to me now that I'll never be half the healer that you are.
EMH: Do you mean to tell me you've been trying to live up to my standards?
PARIS: I'm afraid I have.
EMH: It all makes sense now. The misplaced aggression, the shirking of responsibilities. All classic signs of an inferiority complex. I had no idea my superior abilities were affecting your psyche so strongly. Take the rest of the day off. Reflect on your strengths. Realize your worth.
PARIS: I'll do that, Doctor. Thank you.

[Torres' quarters]
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: What do you think you're doing?
PARIS: Putting.
TORRES: In my quarters?
PARIS: I can't putt in your quarters?
TORRES: No.
PARIS: Since when?
TORRES: Tom. What is this?
PARIS: That is a sand wedge. It's used for getting out of traps.
TORRES: Why is it here?
PARIS: I replicated it for you. I thought we could play a little game of golf on the holodeck before dinner.
TORRES: So this is your idea of an adult conversation? I don't know what you are trying to accomplish with this little stunt, but let me assure you, it is not working. I am sorry if you are bored because Steth is gone, but that doesn't mean that you can just walk in here and pretend like you haven't been shutting me out.
PARIS: You're being a little hard on Steth. If it wasn't for him, I wouldn't be here right now.
TORRES: Really?
PARIS: I mentioned to him we were having some problems and he urged me to come and talk to you. To try to work things out. To admit I was wrong. I made a mistake, B'Elanna, and I'm sorry. I won't shut you out anymore. In fact, I went to the Doctor and begged to be excused from my duties. I realize it's only a few extra hours, but they're hours I want to spend with you.
TORRES: Steth turned out to be a positive influence on you.

[Steth's ship]
STETH: Computer, wh
STETH: Computer, where are we?
COMPUTER: Navigation matrix one seven one one. The Kotaba expanse. Coaxial leap complete. PARIS?
STETH: How far are we from Voyager? Computer, lock in Voyager's last known coordinates and activate differential induction drive.
COMPUTER: Unable to execute command.
STETH: Why not?
COMPUTER: The differential induction drive has been secured. The security access code is required to implement the coaxial leap.
AVIK (voiceover): This is Commander Avek of the Benthan Guard. We're taking you into custody. Prepare to surrender the vessel to us at once.
STETH: Benthan? I need a second to explain, Commander. I'm not who you think
AVIK (voiceover): We do not negotiate with thieves.
STETH: No, you don't understand. I, I need the ship to get back to Voyager.
AVIK (voiceover): Surrender the vessel peacefully or we will use force.
STETH: Why is everybody trying to shoot me today?
DAELEN: You know what I'm here for.
STETH: I don't know what you're talking about. Who are you?
DAELEN: I'm Steth.
STETH: What?
DAELEN: Look at me. You did wear this body for nearly a year before you switched it with mine. That's my body you're in now. I want it back.
STETH: Bear with me for a second. We have more in common than you might think.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: This better be good, Tom. I left Vorik right in the middle of an EPS recalibration.
PARIS: You can thank me later.
TORRES: So, what's my big surprise?
PARIS: What would you say to twenty four glorious hours on the famed fourth planet of the Kendren system?
TORRES: You mean the planet where Neelix is gathering food samples?
PARIS: I ran a few scans and found the most incredible beach on one of the smaller continents. I replicated a picnic lunch for us. Voyager isn't leaving orbit until tomorrow. We'd have an entire day.
TORRES: Only a day? Oh, I think that we would need at least a week.
PARIS: I wish we could. We've only got a day.
TORRES: You're serious, aren't you.
PARIS: Completely.
TORRES: Do you know how much trouble we would be in?
PARIS: What could Janeway do, execute us?
TORRES: Tom, I am swamped. I can't get away for an hour, let alone twenty four.
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: I have responsibilities here. We both do.
PARIS: Responsibilities? I don't care!
TORRES: Tom, you're hurting me.
PARIS: You're a real disappointment to me, do you know that? I don't know what I ever saw in you.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: Seven, what brings you here at this hour?
SEVEN: We were supposed to meet in the shuttlebay at twenty one hundred hours. Did you forget?
PARIS: I did. I got so caught up with my reading I guess it slipped my mind. Sorry.
SEVEN: The capillaries in your eyes are swollen, Lieutenant, and I see signs of vascular congestion in your cheeks. Are you intoxicated?
PARIS: No, not at all. I was just exploring the replicator, trying some alien beverages. Only a few were alcoholic.
SEVEN: You are not officially off-duty for another seventy eight minutes.
PARIS: I'm on break. Would you like to join me? I could replicate another Trakian ale for you.
SEVEN: That will not be necessary.
PARIS: Relax, Seven. You're not on the Borg Cube any more. We could finish our work on the shuttle tomorrow.
SEVEN: That would be an inefficient use of our time. I will complete the work myself.
PARIS: Fine.
SEVEN: Before I leave, I would like to know why you were reading the captain's personal logs?
PARIS: I wasn't.
SEVEN: I saw the PADD. It was unmistakably the captain's logs.
PARIS: You're wrong. You're confused. You couldn't possibly have seen anything.
SEVEN: You know I possess an eidetic memory. I require only seconds to commit what I see to memory. Would you like me to quote the passage you were reading?
PARIS: I'm warning you, stay out of my way! Don't interfere in things that don't concern you. If you bother me again, I will make things very unpleasant for you.
SEVEN: Remove your hand from my arm.
PARIS: Don't be foolish. You'll regret it.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Enter.
PARIS: You wanted to see me, Captain?
JANEWAY: Yes. I received a rather disturbing report from Seven of Nine regarding your conduct last night. She claims you were drinking on duty.
PARIS: She's mistaken, Captain.
JANEWAY: Don't lie to me, Tom. I checked the computers. You replicated five alcoholic beverages in the mess hall. She also said you threatened her.
PARIS: I'm sorry, Captain. B'Elanna and I had an argument. I was upset.
JANEWAY: And is that why you were reading my personal logs?
PARIS: I wasn't!
JANEWAY: Seven recited a passage which I'd written, word for word.
PARIS: She probably accessed those files herself. Captain, you can't take the word of a Borg over mine.
JANEWAY: This has to stop, Tom. Your conduct lately has been bizarre, and I've heard far too many complaints from far too many people to dismiss it. Chakotay, the Doctor, Seven of Nine. They're all worried about you. And so am I.
PARIS: You're right, Captain. I need some rest. I'll go right to my quarters.
JANEWAY: Tom! As your Captain and as your friend, I want you to report to Sickbay for some tests. We have to find out if there's something physical that's causing this behavior.
PARIS: This is crazy. I don't need any help.
JANEWAY: That's an order.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Security, I need you in the ready room, now!

[Ready room]
TUVOK: Are you hurt, Captain?
JANEWAY: No. Take him to Sickbay. Keep security with him.

[Steth's ship]
DAELEN: The coaxial drive will be online in a few minutes.
STETH: Good. I've just about overridden all the lock-out commands. No offense, but I'd like to get out of your body as soon as possible.
DAELEN: The alien seems capable of some sort of selective DNA exchange. He absorbs new DNA while depositing his current genetic material into his victims. Let's hope he can reverse that process.
STETH: That's the last lock-out command. We're set for coaxial warp. Let's find Voyager.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The doctor has treated Mister Paris' phaser wounds, but has been unable to wake him. The motive for his attack remains a mystery.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Neurological scans yielded very little, but I did find something very interesting in his blood analysis. There are traces of a second DNA pattern in his nucleotide structure. Possibly the result of a genetic virus.
TUVOK: Could this be the cause of his recent behavior?
EMH: I don't know, but I'm running more scans to see how this might have affected his neurological functions.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain, a vessel just emerged from coaxial space off our starboard bow.
JANEWAY: Keep me informed, Doctor.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Hail them.
STETH (screen): Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Welcome back, Mister Steth.
STETH (screen): I know this sounds crazy, Captain, but I'm not Steth. I'm Tom Paris.
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon.
STETH (screen): We're dealing with an alien who's some sort of identity thief. He traded places with me. Please, beam us aboard.
JANEWAY: Maintain your position while we consider your request. End transmission. Hold them in a tractor beam until you hear from me.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: I have a feeling Steth and his new friend are behind whatever's happened to Tom.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: No time to explain. I'll be in Sickbay.

[Shuttlecraft]
SEVEN: Captain?

[Bridge]
KIM: Commander, I'm reading an unauthorized shuttle launch. It's the captain. She's in the shuttle Tom's been working on.
CHAKOTAY: Try hailing her.
KIM: She's not responding.
CHAKOTAY: Hail Steth's ship. Look, I don't know who you are, but I want to know what's happening here.
STETH (screen): Who's on that shuttle?
CHAKOTAY: Captain Janeway.
STETH (screen): No. I'm betting the alien switched my body, er, Tom's body for hers. You've got to let us out of this tractor beam. We can catch her with this ship. Chakotay, it's me.
CHAKOTAY: How do I know that?
STETH (screen): The other day, in your office, you told me I'd turned my life around. Well, give me the chance to prove it. Let me go after the shuttle. It is the only way we can get everybody back into the right body.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, disengage the tractor beam.

[Steth's ship]
STETH: Twenty thousand kilometers and closing.
DAELEN: Has he detected us yet?
STETH: I'd say he has.

[Shuttle]
JANEWAY: Gentlemen, I'd advise you to reconsider this pursuit. Killing me will only keep you trapped in those bodies.

[Steth's ship]
DAELEN: He's right. We can't risk killing him.
STETH: Yeah, but nothing's keeping him from killing us. Damn! The ship's not nearly as manoeuverable as a shuttle.
DAELEN: Shields are down.
JANEWAY (voiceover): I'm surprised you're so eager to

[Shuttle]
JANEWAY: Reclaim your life on Voyager, Tom. I was just as disappointed with it as you were.

[Steth's ship]
STETH: Then I guess we were both wrong.

[Shuttle]
JANEWAY: It's time to move on again. Oh, Tom? Be sure to send my best regards to B'Elanna, hmm?

[Steth's ship]
DAELEN: He's charging the coaxial drive.
STETH: Set the sensors to track him.
DAELEN: I can't. He's blocking us. We won't be able to follow him once he goes into coaxial warp. We're losing him.
STETH: The carburettor! We added a polaric modulator to the coaxial drive. If I can target the modulator, hit it with a chromoelectric pulse, that'll disrupt his engines. Here goes.

[Shuttle]
STETH (voiceover): I hope you still have my box wrench. Faulty carburettors can be a pain to fix.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51775.2. While the alien intruder remains trapped in the body of his last victim, the doctor has found a way to return Tom, Steth and me to our own bodies.

[Sickbay]
STETH: Doctor, I can't thank you enough. You've given me my life back.
EMH: All in a day's work.
STETH: There were times when I thought I would be stuck in that body forever.
PARIS: Believe me, I'm just as happy to be back to the old Tom Paris.
JANEWAY: What do you plan to do now?
STETH: I'm going to take her back to Bentha. I hope to find the person who belongs to that body.
EMH: But who knows if that's the end of it? We have no idea how long she or he has been switching identities.
STETH: It may take a while, but I will do whatever I can to find everyone you've violated.
JANEWAY: A security team will escort you to your ship and erect a forcefield to contain her.

[Holodeck - Grease Monkey program]
TORRES: So this is where you've been hiding? A garage.
PARIS: It's more than just a garage. This is a monument to hundreds and hundreds of hours that I probably should have spent with you.
TORRES: Probably?
PARIS: Definitely.
TORRES: It's a lovely garage, Tom, but I still don't understand why you brought me here.
PARIS: Well, consider it a symbolic gesture. It's my less than subtle attempt to let you in.
TORRES: I see. To make it clear that I mean almost as much to you as a cam-a-ro.
PARIS: It's a mint condition 1969 Camaro. And yes, you mean a lot more to me.

[Cargo Bay two]
COMPUTER: Oh six hundred hours. Regeneration cycle complete.
SEVEN: Daily log, Seven of Nine, stardate 15781.2. Today, Ensign Kim and I will conduct a comprehensive diagnostic of the aft sensor array. I have allocated three hours twenty minutes for the task, and an additional seventeen minutes for Ensign Kim's usual conversational digressions. I am scheduled to take a nutritional supplement at fifteen hundred hours, engage in one hour of cardiovascular activity, then I intend to review a text the Doctor recommended entitled A Christmas Carol. He believes it will have educational value. End log.

[Mess hall]
KIM: I'll get this. Don't give me any hints.
TUVOK: I have no intention of doing so.
SEVEN: Ensign.
KIM: Hi, Seven.
SEVEN: Are you ready to begin our sensor diagnostic?
KIM: Is it oh six hundred already? We've been playing all night.
SEVEN: Vulcan kal-toh.
KIM: For a game of logic, you'd be surprised at how addictive it is. Give me a few more minutes to figure this out.
TUVOK: You should attend to your duties, Ensign. I'll accept your forfeit.
KIM: No way. This is the closest I've ever come to beating you. I'm not giving up now.
TUVOK: Impressive.
SEVEN: Elementary spatial harmonics. Are you ready now?
KIM: Yeah, sure. I would've gotten that.

[Corridor]
KIM: Is there anything you don't know?
SEVEN: I was Borg.
KIM: I was Borg. That's what you always say but what does it mean? You've got the knowledge of ten thousand species in your head?
SEVEN: Not exactly. Each drone's experiences are processed by the Collective. Only useful information is retained.
KIM: Still, that probably makes you the most intelligent human being alive.
SEVEN: Probably.
KIM: So what do you need the rest of us for? Forget I asked.
KIM: What was that?

[Bridge]
PARIS: We just dropped out of warp.
CHAKOTAY: What's the problem?
PARIS: We were hit by some kind of shockwave.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
PARIS: Checking.
PARIS: Hold on. I just lost all my sensor readings. The computer's bringing up some kind of message, but I can't access it. You'd better take a look at this.
CHAKOTAY: I see it.
PARIS: What is it?
CHAKOTAY: I have no idea. My command codes aren't working. The computer says I have insufficient clearance to access the message. We can't function like this. I'm going to get Harry up here to trace the source.
JANEWAY: Don't do anything. I'll take care of this.
JANEWAY: Send all sensor data about the particle wave to my ready room. Tom, disengage engines and hold position here.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, what's going on?
JANEWAY: I can't explain right now. Don't discuss any of this with the rest of the crew. I'll have further instructions for you soon.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Computer, seal the doors to this room. No entry without my authorisation.
COMPUTER: Doors are sealed.
JANEWAY: Access secured datafile Omega one.
COMPUTER: Voiceprint confirmed. State clearance code.
JANEWAY: Janeway one one five three red. Clearance level ten.
COMPUTER: Confirmed. Sensors have detected the Omega phenomenon within one point two light years of this vessel. Implement the Omega Directive immediately. All other priorities have been rescinded.
JANEWAY: Display sensor data.

[Engineering]
CHAKOTAY: I've been informed this is a highly classified mission. Information will be provided on a need-to-know basis. Captain's orders.
TORRES: Classified? By who? We're sixty thousand light years from Starfleet.
CHAKOTAY: Like I said. Need to know. B'Elanna, she wants you to install multiphasic shielding around the warp core.
TORRES: I've never seen this shield configuration. I'd like to run a couple of computer simulations to make sure it's stable.
CHAKOTAY: No time. She needs this done by eleven hundred hours.
TORRES: Eleven hundred? I don't think that's possible.
CHAKOTAY: Make it possible.
SEVEN: Are we attempting to protect the core from some form of subspace radiation?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know any more than you do.
SEVEN: It will be difficult to complete the task without more data.
CHAKOTAY: The data you've got will have to do. Tom, start modifying a shuttlecraft to withstand extreme thermal stress. Twelve thousand Kelvins, at least.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
TORRES: Does all this have anything to do with that secret message the Captain received?
CHAKOTAY: What have you heard?
TORRES: Rumors, mainly. Janeway's been locked in her ready room for the past sixteen hours. Something about an Omega Directive.
SEVEN: Omega?
PARIS: Ring a bell?
CHAKOTAY: Look, the speculation ends right here. Now, I expect you to carry out your assignments with a minimum of gossip, understood? I know it's hard not to wonder. Frankly, I'm curious myself, but the captain was very adamant about this. Get going. The captain wants to see you.
SEVEN: I thought she might.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in. What do you know about the Omega Directive?
SEVEN: Everything you do, most likely.
JANEWAY: I thought as much. The Borg assimilated Starfleet captains. You would possess all of their knowledge.
SEVEN: That's correct. Do you intend to carry out the Directive?
JANEWAY: Yes.
SEVEN: Then sensors have detected the molecule.
JANEWAY: So it would appear. But we have to confirm it.
SEVEN: We?
JANEWAY: You're going to help me carry out the Directive. Protocol forbids me from discussing this mission with any of my crew, but since you already know about it, my choice is to either work with you or confine you to quarters.
SEVEN: Perhaps you should do the latter. I will not help you destroy Omega. It should be harnessed.
JANEWAY: That's impossible.
SEVEN: The Borg believe otherwise.
JANEWAY: Explain.
SEVEN: On one occasion, we were able to create a single Omega molecule. We kept it stable for one trillionth of a nanosecond before it destabilized. We didn't have enough boronite ore left to synthesize more, but the knowledge we gained allowed us to refine our theories.
JANEWAY: The Borg have been waiting for the chance to test them out.
SEVEN: Yes. But we never found another source of the ore. Until now.
JANEWAY: Sorry, but if someone out there is experimenting with Omega, I'm under orders to stop them. Otherwise, this entire quadrant would be at risk.
SEVEN: Those orders were issued as a result of Starfleet's ignorance and fear. I can alleviate your ignorance. As for your fear
JANEWAY: Sometimes fear should be respected, Seven. Tell me, how many Borg were sacrificed during this experiment?
SEVEN: Twenty nine vessels, six hundred thousand drones. But that is irrelevant.
JANEWAY: Not to me, not to my crew, and not to the people who live in this quadrant. I'm going to neutralize this threat, Seven, with or without your help.
SEVEN: I will assist you.
JANEWAY: You will?
SEVEN: I have waited many years to observe this molecule firsthand. I will not deny myself this experience.
JANEWAY: All right. Go back to your cargo bay, assemble all the data you have about Omega. I'll expect a report within the hour. I didn't realize you had such a strong scientific curiosity.
SEVEN: Not curiosity. Desire.
JANEWAY: Desire?
SEVEN: Omega is infinitely complex, yet harmonious. To the Borg it represents perfection. I wish to understand that perfection.
JANEWAY: The Borg's Holy Grail.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: Never mind. I'll see you in an hour.

[Medical lab]
EMH: Arithrazine? What for?
JANEWAY: I'm going on an away mission.
EMH: What are you planning to do, stroll through a supernova?
JANEWAY: Something like that. Twenty milligrams. When can you have it ready?
EMH: Captain, arithrazine is used for the most severe cases of theta radiation poisoning. A physician must be present to monitor the treatment.
JANEWAY: That won't be possible.
EMH: Then I'm afraid I can't accommodate you. I'd be in violation of Starfleet Medical Protocols.
JANEWAY: Well, I'm overriding those protocols.
EMH: Don't tell me. The Omega Directive, whatever that might be.
JANEWAY: The arithrazine, Doctor.
EMH: It'll be ready in the morning.
JANEWAY: Have it sent to the shuttlebay.
EMH: Captain, I don't know what's going on here but I'd hate this to be the last time I ever see you. Please be careful.
JANEWAY: I will.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: I've analyzed the sensor logs using Borg algorithms. The shockwave we detected indicates not one but possibly hundreds of Omega molecules.
JANEWAY: Location?
SEVEN: Within ten light years. I'm having difficulty isolating the exact star system.
JANEWAY: Hundreds of molecules? That changes everything.
SEVEN: A shuttle mission may be insufficient. We require the resources of this entire crew.
JANEWAY: We're going to need more firepower, more protection. Transfer your data to the Astrometrics lab. I'll work on it there.

[Science lab]
TUVOK: Calibration complete. Phase modulator. Detonator circuits?
KIM: On standby.
TUVOK: We're ready to load the gravimetric charge.
KIM: This looks like enough for a fifty isoton explosion.
TUVOK: Fifty four, to be exact.
KIM: What are we planning to do, blow up a small planet?
TUVOK: I don't know.
KIM: This warhead isn't standard issue. Who designed it, the captain?
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, you ask too many questions. Change of plans, gentlemen. Increase the charge to eighty isotons.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Harry, when you're done here, give B'Elanna a hand with the shuttlecraft. She's reinforcing the hull.
KIM: Right.
KIM: Ensign Hickman thinks it's species eight four seven two.
TUVOK: Pardon me?
KIM: That's his theory. There's an opening in fluidic space, and Captain Janeway has to shut it down. Want to know what I think?
TUVOK: No.
KIM: I think there's a type six protostar out there, and the captain's planning on detonating it and opening up a wormhole to the Alpha Quadrant. In theory, it's possible. And because she doesn't want to get our hopes up, she's not telling anybody.
TUVOK: Then I wouldn't suggest getting your hopes up.
KIM: Then what do you think it is?
TUVOK: I do not engage in idle speculation.
KIM: Oh, come on, Tuvok. Aren't you curious?
TUVOK: Yes, but we have a task at hand. The phase modulator.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: Come in. Status report?
CHAKOTAY: Everything's going according to schedule.
JANEWAY: Good. The Omega Directive doesn't allow me to say much but I want you to know what to expect. At oh six hundred hours, I'll be leaving in a shuttle with Seven of Nine.
CHAKOTAY: Would it be out of line to ask where you're going?
JANEWAY: I can tell you this. One of two things is going to happen. Either Seven and I will succeed on our mission, and return within a few days, or your long range sensors will detect a large explosion in subspace. If that occurs, you'll have less than ten seconds to jump to warp and get the hell out of here. Head for the Alpha Quadrant and don't look back, understood?
CHAKOTAY: I always thought Starfleet was run by duty-crazed bureaucrats, but I find it hard to believe that even they would order a captain to go on a suicide mission. This shuttle excursion is your idea, isn't it?
JANEWAY: Let's just say I've had to amend the Directive, given the circumstances, But you have your orders and I expect you to follow them.
CHAKOTAY: That's expecting a lot. You're asking me to abandon my captain and closest friend without even telling me why.
JANEWAY: If it were a simple matter of trust I wouldn't hesitate to tell you, but we've encountered situations where information was taken from us by force. I can't allow knowledge of Omega to go beyond Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: That's a reasonable argument, but you're not always a reasonable woman. You're determined to protect this crew, and this time you've taken it too far. A dangerous mission? Fine, I'll acknowledge that, but isn't it more likely to succeed with everyone behind you, working together?
JANEWAY: Ordinarily, I'd agree. But this Directive was issued many years ago, and Starfleet didn't exactly have our predicament in mind. Lost in the Delta Quadrant, with no backup. I can't ignore the orders, but I won't ask the crew to risk their lives because of my obligation.
CHAKOTAY: My obligation. That's where you're wrong. Voyager may be alone out here, but you're not. Let us help you. We'll keep classified information limited to the senior staff. We'll take every security precaution. Just don't try to do this alone.
JANEWAY: Assemble the troops.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: If we were in the Alpha Quadrant right now, we wouldn't be having this conversation. I'd be in contact with Starfleet Command, and they'd send in a specialized team to deal with the crisis. In their absence, we're going to have to make do with the training I've received, and the knowledge Seven of Nine has retained from the Borg. You've all seen this symbol. Omega, the last letter of the Greek alphabet. Chosen by Starfleet to represent a threat not only to the Federation, but to the entire galaxy. Only starship captains and Federation Flag Officers have been briefed on the nature of this threat. What you're about to hear will not go beyond these bulkheads, is that clear? Good.
JANEWAY: This is Omega.
PARIS: A molecule?
JANEWAY: Not just any molecule. The most powerful substance known to exist. A single Omega molecule contains the same energy as a warp core. In theory, a small chain of them could sustain a civilization. The molecule was first synthesized over a hundred years ago, by a Starfleet physicist named Ketteract. I think he was hoping to develop an inexhaustible power source.
SEVEN: Or a weapon.
JANEWAY: Ketteract managed to synthesize a single molecule particle of Omega, but it only existed for a fraction of a second before it destabilized.
JANEWAY: This was a classified research station in the Lantaru Sector. Ketteract and one hundred twenty six of the Federation's leading scientists were lost in the accident. Rescue teams attempting to reach the site discovered an unexpected secondary effect. There were subspace ruptures extending out several light years.
PARIS: The Lantaru Sector. It's impossible to create a stable warp field there. You can only fly through it at sublight speeds. I was always told that was a natural phenomenon. You're saying it was caused by a single molecule of this stuff?
JANEWAY: Omega destroys subspace. A chain reaction involving a handful of molecules could devastate subspace throughout an entire Quadrant. If that were to happen, warp travel would become impossible. Space-faring civilization as we know it would cease to exist. When Starfleet realized Omega's power, they suppressed all knowledge of it.
EMH: Have you detected Omega here, in the Delta Quadrant?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid so. I've been authorized to use whatever means necessary to destroy it. Tom, I've calculated the location of the molecules. I'll transfer the coordinates to the helm. Take us there at full impulse.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: I don't have to tell you what's at stake. If a large-scale Omega explosion occurs, we will lose the ability to go to warp forever. We've got our work cut out for us.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Encrypt log entry. We're approaching the star system where we believe we'll find Omega. I have to admit, I have never been this apprehensive about a mission. I know how Einstein must have felt about the atom bomb, or Marcus when she developed the Genesis device. They watched helplessly as science took a destructive course. But I have the chance to prevent that from happening. I just hope it's not too late.

[Cargo Bay two]
JANEWAY: Status report?
SEVEN: This is a harmonic resonance chamber. The Borg designed it to contain and stabilize Omega.
JANEWAY: I thought I asked you to work on the photon torpedo.
SEVEN: The torpedo may be insufficient. I can modify this chamber to emit an inverse frequency. It will be enough to dissolve Omega's interatomic bonds.
JANEWAY: Here's to Borg ingenuity. This is excellent work, Seven. We may need this.
SEVEN: The modifications require several complex calculations. Assist me.
JANEWAY: I guess I will. I'm curious. When did the Borg discover Omega?
SEVEN: Two hundred twenty nine years ago.
JANEWAY: Assimilation?
SEVEN: Yes, of thirteen different species.
JANEWAY: Thirteen?
SEVEN: It began with Species two six two. They were primitive, but their oral history referred to a powerful substance which could burn the sky. The Borg were intrigued, which led them to Species two six three. They too were primitive, and believed it was a drop of blood from their Creator.
JANEWAY: Fascinating.
SEVEN: Yes, but irrelevant. We followed this trail of myth for many years until finally assimilating a species with useful scientific data. We then created the molecule ourselves.
JANEWAY: Omega caused quite a stir among my own species. Federation cosmologists had a theory that the molecule once existed in nature for an infinitesimal period of time at the exact moment of the Big Bang. Some claimed Omega was the primal source of energy for the explosion that began our universe.
SEVEN: A creation myth like any other.
JANEWAY: Perhaps. What is it the Borg say? That Omega is perfect?
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: Is that a theory or a belief.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Bridge to Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We're approaching the coordinates.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way. I'm leaving this project in your hands. Use whatever resources and personnel you need.
SEVEN: Understood.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We've entered a planetary system.
JANEWAY: Inhabited?
CHAKOTAY: There's a pre-warp civilization on the outermost planet. The source of Omega seems to be further in.
PARIS: The damage to subspace in this region is extreme. We won't be able to go to warp.
TUVOK: We're encountering distortions.
JANEWAY: Track their origin.
TUVOK: An M class moon. We're in visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TUVOK: There's a subnucleonic reaction occurring in the upper atmosphere. It is apparently emanating from a structure on the moon's surface.
JANEWAY: Can your sensors penetrate the atmosphere?
KIM: Stand by.
JANEWAY: My God.
KIM: Over three hundred thousand square kilometers destroyed.
JANEWAY: Scan the structure. Are there any Omega molecules remaining?
TUVOK: I can't tell. Several sections of the outpost are still shielded.
KIM: I'm detecting lifesigns.
CHAKOTAY: How many?
KIM: A few dozen maybe. It's hard to get a clear reading.
JANEWAY: Harry, can we transport to the surface?
KIM: I can get you there, but conditions in the structure aren't good. There are high levels of radiation.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, assemble a rescue team and have them report to Sickbay for arithrazine inoculations. Tell the Doctor to prepare for casualties. Tom, move Voyager into a high orbit, and then join the away team. We'll need a field medic.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
CHAKOTAY: You're going with them?
JANEWAY: If Omega's still down there, I have to find it. I'll keep an open comm. link with the ship. You have the bridge.

[Laboratory]
JANEWAY: I'm picking up Omega's resonance frequency. It's here but I can't pinpoint a location.
JANEWAY: I need to ask you questions about the experiments you've been conducting here.
ALLOS: There was an accident. We lost containment.
JANEWAY: The substance you were trying to create. Did any of it survive the explosion?
ALLOS: Yes.
JANEWAY: Where?
ALLOS: Inside the primary test chamber. Who are you?
JANEWAY: Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager. We're here to help you. Away team to Voyager. Two to beam directly to Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: This door is solid duritanium, thirteen centimeters thick.
JANEWAY: Can we get it open?
TUVOK: The duritanium has melted into the door frame. We'll need to cut through the metal with phasers.
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: Captain, I'd be negligent if I didn't point out that we're about to violate the Prime Directive.
JANEWAY: For the duration of this mission the Prime Directive has been rescinded. Let's get this over with.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Crewman Dell, I'm assigning you a task more suited to your abilities. Calibrate the ionic pressure seals on the observation ports. Your new designation is Three of Ten.
DELL: Yes, ma'am.
NEELIX: I've got more isolinear processors for you to install.
KIM: Thanks, but I need to get the power relays online first.
NEELIX: Are you sure that's a good idea? Ensign Wildman was assigned to that.
KIM: This is ridiculous. I'm not going to waste time just because Seven wants to turn this team into her own private Collective.
NEELIX: She says it's more efficient.
KIM: Maybe for a bunch of Drones.
SEVEN: Six of Ten, this is not your assignment.
KIM: Please, stop calling me that.
SEVEN: You are compromising our productivity. I'm reassigning you to chamber maintenance. Your new designation is Two of Ten.
KIM: Wait a minute, you're demoting me? Since when do the Borg pull rank?
SEVEN: A Starfleet protocol I adapted. I find it most useful.
KIM: I'm glad you're not the captain.
CHAKOTAY: How's it coming?
SEVEN: The crew can be quite efficient when properly organized. The harmonic chamber will be completed within the hour.
CHAKOTAY: Good. I'll let the captain know.
SEVEN: Has she retrieved any new data from the surface?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. They're still trying to access the primary test chamber.
SEVEN: Were there survivors?
CHAKOTAY: A few. The Doctor's treating them in Sickbay.
KIM: Commander. Seven's taking this hive mentality just a little too far. Designated functions, numbered Drones. I wouldn't be surprised if she started plugging us into alcoves.
CHAKOTAY: When in the Collective, Harry, adapt.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: Which of them is the senior researcher?
EMH: This gentleman. Why do you ask?
SEVEN: He has knowledge I require.
EMH: He also happens to be barely conscious. Come back in an hour.
SEVEN: Unacceptable.
EMH: Unavoidable. This is my sickbay. The man needs to recover.
SEVEN: The Captain left me in charge of our efforts on Voyager. I would be negligent if I ignored a source of new information.
EMH: Our next social skills seminar is entitled Adding Diplomatic Flair To Future Negotiations. How are you feeling, sir?
ALLOS: Better, thank you.
EMH: Are you comfortable enough to speak with this individual?
EMH: Keep it brief.
SEVEN: How many of the molecules were you able to synthesize?
ALLOS: Two hundred million? I'm not certain.
SEVEN: What is the isofrequency of your containment field?
ALLOS: One point six eight terahertz. We used the molecule's own resonance to calculate the field.
SEVEN: That should have been enough to stabilize them.
ALLOS: Obviously, it wasn't.
SEVEN: Obviously. But your approach is innovative. Perhaps I can adapt your technique and improve upon it. You will assist me.
ALLOS: Our equipment was destroyed. If you can transfer the molecules to your ship, maybe they can be saved.
SEVEN: I have no intention of saving them.
ALLOS: What?
SEVEN: My orders are to destroy the Omega molecules.
ALLOS: This is my life's work. The salvation of my people!
SEVEN: Will you assist me or not?
ALLOS: Our resources are nearly gone. The future of my people depends on this discovery.
SEVEN: Then your answer is no.
ALLOS: Small-minded creatures. You destroy whatever you don't understand! Rescue ships are on the way. They won't let you do it.
EMH: Please, try to be calm. Seven, you'll have to leave.
ALLOS: You don't realize what you're doing. You don't know what this is, what this means.
SEVEN: On the contrary. I understand perfectly.

[Laboratory]
TUVOK: We've disabled the locking mechanism.
JANEWAY: Narrow your phaser beams to cut through the inner seal.
TUVOK: Inadvisable. We'd risk penetrating the containment field.
JANEWAY: Then we'll have to use some elbow grease. Give me a hand. Right.
JANEWAY: There's enough here to wipe out subspace across half the quadrant.
TUVOK: I'll order the away teams back to Voyager and target this facility with the gravimetric charge.
JANEWAY: It won't be enough. We'll have to go with our Borg option. Ensign.
ENSIGN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Return to the ship. Tell Commander Chakotay to help Seven complete the harmonic chamber. We'll have to transport Omega directly to the ship. That means finding a way to shut down this containment field.
TUVOK: It's unfortunate we can't study this phenomenon in more detail. We may not have the opportunity again.
JANEWAY: Let's hope we never do.
TUVOK: A curious statement from a woman of science.
JANEWAY: I'm also a woman who occasionally knows when to quit. Take another look at your tricorder. Omega's too dangerous. I won't risk half the quadrant to satisfy our curiosity. It's arrogant, and it's irresponsible. The final frontier has some boundaries that shouldn't be crossed, and we're looking at one.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: We don't need to destroy the molecules. I believe I've found a way to stabilize them. The alien in Sickbay calibrated his containment field using Omega's own resonance, an approach unknown to the Borg. I have modified this chamber
CHAKOTAY: Those weren't your orders. The Captain wants Omega eliminated.
SEVEN: That is still an option, if she insists on yielding to her fear.
CHAKOTAY: Show me what you've done.
SEVEN: This simulation shows the molecules in their free state, highly unstable. I've modified the chamber to emit a harmonic waveform that will dampen the molecules.
CHAKOTAY: Looks great, in theory, but this is only a simulation. How are you going to test it?
SEVEN: On Omega.
CHAKOTAY: Bad idea. One mistake, and no one will be around for a second try.
SEVEN: It will work.
CHAKOTAY: Someday, maybe. Hang on to your research. For now, we stick to the plan. Stand by to transport the molecules into this chamber and neutralize them as ordered.
SEVEN: I have been a member of this crew for nine months. In all of that time, I have never made a personal request. I am making one now. Allow me to proceed. Please.
CHAKOTAY: Why is this so important to you?
SEVEN: Particle zero one zero. The Borg designation for what you call Omega. Every Drone is aware of its existence. We were instructed to assimilate it at all costs. It is perfection. The molecules exist in a flawless state. Infinite parts functioning as one.
CHAKOTAY: Like the Borg.
SEVEN: Precisely. I am no longer Borg, but I still need to understand that perfection. Without it, my existence will never be complete. Commander, you are a spiritual man.
CHAKOTAY: That's right.
SEVEN: If you had the chance to see your God, your Great Spirit, what would you do?
CHAKOTAY: I'd pursue it, with all my heart.
SEVEN: Then you understand.
CHAKOTAY: I think I do. I'll inform the captain of your discovery. For now, her orders stand.
SEVEN: Thank you.

[Laboratory]
JANEWAY: Set the confinement beam to its narrowest dispersion.
TUVOK: Understood.
JANEWAY: We'll target this facility with the gravimetric torpedo. If anything goes wrong during transport, that'll be our only hope.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Bridge to Janeway. We've detected two ships on an intercept course. They're not responding to hails.
JANEWAY: How long until they get here?

[Bridge]
PARIS: Less than four minutes, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Standby to transport the

[Laboratory]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Molecules directly to the harmonic chamber.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Understood. Bridge to

[Cargo Bay two]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Cargo bay.
SEVEN: Yes, Commander.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Seven, get ready.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We'll have to do this quickly.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: That's not advisable.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We don't have a choice.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: The alien ships are on their way.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Then I recommend moving the ship within five thousand kilometers of the surface.
PARIS (voiceover): That'll take us right into the atmosphere.

[Bridge]
PARIS: With our shields down, we won't withstand the thermal reaction for more than a few seconds.
CHAKOTAY: Then we'll only get one shot at this. Take us in.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Transporter status?
KIM: Targeting scanners are locked.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, are you ready?

[Laboratory]
TUVOK: Pattern enhancers are active.
JANEWAY: Do it.

[Bridge]
PARIS: We're eleven thousand kilometers from the surface. If we get much closer, we'll incinerate.
KIM: We're losing structural integrity.

[Laboratory]
PARIS (voiceover): Nine thousand kilometers.
JANEWAY: We're close enough. Energize.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Initiating transport.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: The Omega molecules are stable.

[Bridge]
SEVEN (voiceover): Transport was successful.
KIM: I've got the away team in transporter room two.
CHAKOTAY: Get us out of here, maximum impulse.
PARIS: Already on it.
CHAKOTAY: How far away are those ships?
PARIS: They're right on our tail.
CHAKOTAY: We're heading into an area of open space. No indications of life or any kind of technology. We can carry out the procedure with no risk to anyone else.
PARIS: Except those two ships behind us.
JANEWAY: Can we stay ahead of them?
PARIS: Not for long.
CHAKOTAY: How soon can we clear the subspace ruptures and go to warp?
PARIS: Ten, maybe fifteen minutes. But those ships will catch up to us before then.
JANEWAY: Well we have one advantage. We've got Omega. They won't risk firing at us. At least not until they run out of options. That should give us a chance to neutralize the molecules.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we might have another problem.
JANEWAY: Seven of Nine?
CHAKOTAY: She's convinced she can stabilize Omega.
JANEWAY: I thought we'd settled that question.
CHAKOTAY: While you were on the surface, she showed me a pretty convincing simulation of how it could be done.
JANEWAY: I should have known she wouldn't just let this go. I'll be in Cargo Bay two.

[Cargo Bay two]
JANEWAY: Seven, the procedure?
SEVEN: It's working. Eleven percent of the molecules have already been neutralized.
JANEWAY: Let's see if we can speed up the process a little.
SEVEN: Did Chakotay tell you about my idea?
JANEWAY: Yes.
SEVEN: Then you will allow me to stabilize the remaining molecules.
JANEWAY: You know I can't do that.
SEVEN: Your Starfleet Directive is no longer relevant. I have found a way to control Omega.
JANEWAY: I don't care if you can make it sing and dance. We're getting rid of it.
SEVEN: A foolish decision.
JANEWAY: Yes, but it's mine to make. Now step aside.
SEVEN: I could have done this without your permission, but I chose to follow your command structure. I should have made the attempt. I still can.
JANEWAY: But you won't. You know I'm not trying to stop you from finding perfection, but I can't risk the safety of this Quadrant. Omega must end here. We both know that. Status?
SEVEN: Eighteen percent.
JANEWAY: This could take hours. Can you increase the harmonic resonance?
SEVEN: Yes. but it would rupture the chamber.
JANEWAY: How many molecules would we neutralize?
SEVEN: Forty, fifty percent at best.
JANEWAY: That's good enough. Our torpedo can take care of the rest. Janeway to bridge.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay here.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, I want you to clear deck four. Put emergency forcefields around this section. Prepare to decompress Cargo Bay two on my command.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Understood.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, load the gravimetric torpedo. Once we've jettisoned the chamber, fire.
TUVOK (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Harmonic resonance to maximum.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Commander, they're closing on us.
TUVOK: They're attempting to stop us with a tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: Adjust shields to compensate.
KIM: They're hailing us.
CHAKOTAY: On screen.
ALIEN CAPTAIN (screen): Disengage your engines and prepare to be boarded.
CHAKOTAY: I can't do that.
ALIEN CAPTAIN (screen): You've stolen our technology, abducted our people.
CHAKOTAY: Your people are safe. They're receiving medical care. I'll be glad to get them back to you when this is over. But we're keeping the molecules.
ALIEN CAPTAIN (screen): I won't allow this substance to fall into enemy hands. I'll destroy it first.
TUVOK: They're charging weapons.
CHAKOTAY: You'll destabilize the molecules. We'll both be destroyed.
ALIEN CAPTAIN (screen): Then return our technology. Now.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry. That's not possible.
TUVOK: Direct hit. Shields down ten percent.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive maneuvers. Try to shake them off.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Harmonic resonance at maximum, Captain.
JANEWAY: The molecules?
SEVEN: Eighty percent remaining.
JANEWAY: We need to get that down to sixty.
SEVEN: Any damage to our power grid could overload the chamber. Omega would chain react.
JANEWAY: The same thought crossed my mind. Where are we now?
SEVEN: Seventy two percent.
JANEWAY: That's close enough, Bridge, start the decompression sequence.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: What's wrong? What's happening?
SEVEN: The molecules are stabilizing.
JANEWAY: What?
SEVEN: I've done nothing. It's occurring spontaneously.
JANEWAY: That's impossible.
COMPUTER: Decompression in thirty seconds. Decompression in twenty five seconds.
JANEWAY: Seven, let's move.
COMPUTER: Decompression in twenty seconds.
JANEWAY: Seven!
COMPUTER: Decompression in fifteen seconds.
COMPUTER: Decompression in ten seconds.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Tom, are we clear of the subspace ruptures?
PARIS: Almost.
CHAKOTAY: I need maximum warp within ten seconds or we'll be stuck at ground zero.
PARIS: Yes, sir.
TUVOK: Decompression is complete. The harmonic chamber has been jettisoned.
CHAKOTAY: Fire!
PARIS: We made it. We're at warp one.
JANEWAY: The alien ships?
PARIS: Out of range.
JANEWAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: Sensors show no traces of Omega molecules.
JANEWAY: Mission accomplished.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51793.4. We've arranged for our guests in Sickbay to be taken back to their homeworld, and we can finally put this mission behind us. This will be my last encrypted log concerning the Omega Directive. The classified datafiles will now be destroyed.

[Holodeck - da Vinci's Workshop]
JANEWAY: I wondered who was running my program. Master da Vinci doesn't like visitors after midnight.
SEVEN: He protested. I deactivated him.
JANEWAY: What are you doing here, Seven?
SEVEN: This simulation contains many religious components. I was studying them to help me understand what I saw in Cargo Bay two.
JANEWAY: The data isn't clear why Omega stabilized in the last few seconds. The chances are it was simply a chaotic anomaly, nothing more.
SEVEN: For three point two seconds I saw perfection. When Omega stabilized, I felt a curious sensation. As I was watching it, it seemed to be watching me. The Borg have assimilated many species with mythologies to explain such moments of clarity. I've always dismissed them as trivial. Perhaps I was wrong.
JANEWAY: If I didn't know you better, I'd say you just had your first spiritual experience.

[Bridge]
KIM: When the Captain told us to start collecting deuterium, Seven suggested a series of modifications to the Bussard collectors. The problem is I didn't realize the extent of the modifications until after we'd begun the sweep. I mean, not that there was anything wrong with them, in fact efficiency is up twenty three percent
CHAKOTAY: In a nutshell, Harry.
KIM: The collectors are almost full, but I can't tell exactly how full until I realign my sensors with Seven's.
CHAKOTAY: Why didn't you just say so? Next time, work closer with her from the start.
KIM: Closer. Right.
PARIS: So, you're going to realign your sensors with Seven's. Sounds like fun.
KIM: Very funny.
PARIS: What was that?
CHAKOTAY: Are you getting feedback from Seven's modifications?
KIM: Negative.
JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: I am picking up proton surges just outside the ship. The first was off the port beam and the second two were off the starboard bow.
JANEWAY: On screen. There's nothing out there.
PARIS: Whatever it is, it's getting closer.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Janeway to Astrometrics.
SEVEN (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Use the Astrometrics sensors to scan for the disturbance.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I'm detecting close range weapons fire.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Source?
SEVEN: Proton surges suggest two cloaked ships engaged in battle.

[Bridge]
KIM: With us caught in the middle.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: There's a massive power surge, like one of the ships is exploding.
TUVOK: Captain, there is one life sign aboard that vessel.
TUVOK: It is no longer on our sensors.
KIM: We're being hailed, audio only.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
KELLIN (voiceover): Chakotay, please, I need your help.
KELLIN (voiceover): Chakotay, are you reading me? Please answer.
CHAKOTAY: This is Commander Chakotay. Who are you?
KELLIN (voiceover): Please, anyone on Voyager, if you can hear me, I need help.
TUVOK: There has been an explosion on the vessel.
KIM: The hull is destabilizing. Life support is offline.
JANEWAY: Beam her directly to Sickbay.
KIM: Targeting her coordinates. I've lost her. Trying again. I don't understand, I get a clear lock, then it drops out.
CHAKOTAY: If we can get an away team over there, we could stabilize her ship and tractor it in.
JANEWAY: Do it.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, Tuvok, let's find out what's going on.

[Kellin's ship]
TUVOK: Environmental systems are not functioning. Oxygen levels are dangerously low.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, try to get life support online.
TUVOK: No lifesigns.
CHAKOTAY: See if you can stabilize the hull. I'll look for the pilot. Hello? Can you hear me?
KELLIN (voiceover): Chakotay, is it you?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. I'm going to get this bulkhead off you.
KELLIN (voiceover): But the beam will fall.
CHAKOTAY: I'm going to pry the bulkhead off you. When I say now, get ready to roll out of there like your life depended on it.
KELLIN (voiceover): All right.
CHAKOTAY: Ready?
KELLIN (voiceover): Yes.
CHAKOTAY: Now!
KELLIN: I knew you'd come.
CHAKOTAY: Do I know you? Chakotay to Voyager, two to beam directly to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: How is she?
EMH: I'm not certain. When I scan her, the readings won't stay in the database. Luckily, I'm a master of visual diagnosis. She has a minor concussion and a compound tibular fracture. Nothing life-threatening. I can repair the damage.
JANEWAY: Did you find out how she knows you?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet.
KELLIN: No. I can't.
EMH: She's coming around. Don't be frightened. You're quite safe here.
KELLIN: Captain, please, I need asylum. You must let me stay on your ship, and we've got to get away from here. They'll be coming after me.
JANEWAY: Slow down a minute. I have a few questions first. Who are you, and how do you know my First Officer?
KELLIN: It's a complicated story. I'm not, I'm not sure quite how to begin. But if you don't give me asylum, they're going to track me down and they're going to take me back. And I don't want to go.
JANEWAY: We won't turn you over to anyone without knowing the whole story.
KELLIN: Thank you.
JANEWAY: Chakotay. I want you to stay with her. She seems to trust you. Maybe you'll be able to find out what this is all about.
CHAKOTAY: I hope so.
JANEWAY: Keep me informed.
EMH: Once I've repaired the fracture, she'll need some bed rest.
KELLIN: Will you stay with me?
CHAKOTAY: Of course.
KELLIN: Then I'll be fine.
EMH: There, that should do it. I'd ask you to monitor her vital signs, but since they aren't registering, I suppose there's no point. Well, I have several days' worth of inoculation records to catalog. I suppose I'll get to it.
KELLIN: Is he gone?
CHAKOTAY: Yes.
KELLIN: Then we're alone.
CHAKOTAY: In a manner of speaking. Can you start clearing up a few things now?
KELLIN: I'll try. It's complicated. You see, we've met before.
CHAKOTAY: If that were true, I'm sure I'd remember.
KELLIN: No, you wouldn't. You couldn't. You see, the memories of my people can't be held in the minds of other races. When we encounter others, which we do infrequently, they remember us for a few hours, but then the memories fade away. We're completely forgotten by the next day.
CHAKOTAY: Is this done through technology? Telepathy?
KELLIN: It's a factor of our biology. You see, our bodies produce a sort of pheromone which blocks the long-term memory engrams of others.
CHAKOTAY: Is that why the tricorder can't scan you? Why we couldn't get a transporter lock?
KELLIN: We're impervious to those sort of devices.
CHAKOTAY: Your ships are cloaked as well.
KELLIN: When you live a covert existence, you develop technology to enhance it.
CHAKOTAY: But you say we've met before.
KELLIN: About a month ago. I spent several weeks here.
CHAKOTAY: Several weeks?
KELLIN: You and I worked closely together. You helped me a great deal. Then I left, knowing that you would forget everything about me.
CHAKOTAY: Then why did you come back? Why the battle? Why ask us for asylum?
KELLIN: I know you want everything in a nutshell. That's the way you work. But I have to tell you the whole story before it will make sense.
CHAKOTAY: Fine. I'm listening.
KELLIN: I came back because I fell in love with you.

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: She comes from Ramura. It's a closed society that won't tolerate anybody trying to leave. Apparently, she was disenchanted with that and wanted out. They're trying to bring her back. That's why she's asking for asylum.
TUVOK: But you say that she claims she was on Voyager before this.
CHAKOTAY: About a month ago. She says she's a Tracer, a kind of bounty hunter who tracks down people who try to leave their world. She found a runaway hiding on Voyager.
KIM: She was here, but nobody remembers it?
CHAKOTAY: That's what she says, but I think we have to find a way to verify her story.
PARIS: I was looking at her ship. It uses a sophisticated polarization technique that causes our sensor scans to pass right through it. She could have been shadowing us for quite a while.
KIM: And learnt enough about us to convince us she's been here before.
JANEWAY: But why? Why go to that trouble? And what about the battle with that other cloaked ship? She put herself in danger, when it would have been a lot easier simply to ask for asylum.
CHAKOTAY: I agree. But I think we have to make sure she doesn't have some hidden agenda. If she was here there should be some evidence of it. She said a computer virus was planted to wipe all references to her being here, but I have to believe we can at least turn up some evidence of tampering. Harry, Tuvok, Tom. Do the same with her ship. See if the navigational logs support what she's saying.
JANEWAY: Gentlemen. I agree we should take precautions, but you seem very suspicious of her.
CHAKOTAY: I want to make sure we're not being manipulated.
JANEWAY: I agree. If we grant her asylum, we'll be in the position of having to protect her. If we're going to commit to that, we should certainly find out if she's telling the truth. I'd appreciate your thoughts on that.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I have successfully downloaded the navigational logs from your vessel.
KELLIN: Good. Now compare them with your own logs over the last two months.
TUVOK: Display Voyager's route towards the Alpha Quadrant.
KELLIN: Now overlay my route. There, you see. Our ships traveled together for at least two weeks.
SEVEN: You could have falsified your navigational logs.
TUVOK: There's no proof that you ever came aboard Voyager.
KELLIN: That's what I always liked about you two. Such unyielding logic, such refreshing skepticism. Run a diagnostic on my logs. You'll find they haven't been altered.
CHAKOTAY: How's it going?
TUVOK: Her story seems to be legitimate, but there are further steps to take.
CHAKOTAY: Then take them. I thought you might like to get something to eat, unless your memories of our mess hall aren't good.
KELLIN: As a matter of fact, I was quite fond of Neelix's food.
CHAKOTAY: Now that's something that's hard to believe.
SEVEN: Commander Chakotay's face became flushed as he spoke with her. What does that signify?
TUVOK: I'd rather not engage in speculation. It is a dangerous pastime.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: I think our guest will enjoy this, Commander. Fried soy meal, buttered carrots, and a delightful almond pudding.
KELLIN: Sounds wonderful.
CHAKOTAY: Very nice. Thanks, Neelix.
KELLIN: You were very diplomatic.
CHAKOTAY: Why do you say that?
KELLIN: You hate carrots, fried food upsets your stomach, and you refuse to eat pudding because you think it's slimy. Right?
CHAKOTAY: I'm curious. When you were here before you said we worked together, but you also said you were here to retrieve a runaway. How was I involved?
KELLIN: Aren't you more curious to hear about how we fell in love?
CHAKOTAY: We? You said you were in love with me. You didn't say I felt the same way.
KELLIN: If you hadn't returned the feelings, do you really think I would have taken such a terrible risk to get back to you?
CHAKOTAY: Let's take it one step at a time. How did you get on our ship?
KELLIN: That was easy. The hard part was looking for the runaway without anyone finding me. I managed two days on the ship before I triggered an intruder alert and lost my cloak.
CHAKOTAY: And then what happened?
KELLIN: And then I met you.

[Flashback - Cargo bay two]
CHAKOTAY: Wrong direction.
KELLIN: I don't want to hurt you. Put your weapon down.
CHAKOTAY: On my ship, I give the orders. Put yours down.
KELLIN: I don't mean you any harm. You have a stowaway on board. I'll retrieve him and we'll be on our way.
CHAKOTAY: That's not the way we do things here. Chakotay to Tuvok. I'm in cargo bay two. I have our intruder.
TUVOK (voiceover): Understood, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: You're about to find yourself outnumbered. If you want to give me your weapon and explain what's going on, I'll listen.

[Mess hall]
KELLIN: I felt an attraction right away, but I couldn't afford to get distracted. I had work to do. And I didn't know if you felt it, too.
CHAKOTAY: What happened next?
KELLIN: You took me to Captain Janeway. I explained the situation. She didn't like the idea of a stowaway on her ship, so she told you and Tuvok to work with me to flush him out.
CHAKOTAY: And did we?
KELLIN: You keep trying to jump to the end. You're skipping all the parts about us.
CHAKOTAY: And you keep trying to talk about your feelings. I'd rather you stick to the events, not the emotions surrounding them.
KELLIN: Why? Does it make you uncomfortable?
CHAKOTAY: I don't want to play this game. I've been assigned to talk to you, to figure out whether or not you're telling the truth. Even if you are, I have no memory of meeting you, and I certainly have no memory of feeling anything for you. You might remember a relationship between us, but as far as I'm concerned, it didn't exist.
KELLIN: I see.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry. I just want to make it clear how I feel.
KELLIN: Of course.
CHAKOTAY: Is there anything I can do for you?
KELLIN: Can I have your pudding?
CHAKOTAY: Gladly.
KELLIN: Then you're forgiven.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Chakotay and Kellin, report to the bridge immediately.
KELLIN: It's the Tracers. They've found me.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We don't detect any ships. I'm assuming these are your people in cloaked vessels.
KELLIN: They've come to take me back.
JANEWAY: Harry, hail them.
KELLIN: They won't answer.
KIM: She's right, Captain. No response. Their weapons are going through our shields as if they weren't there.
JANEWAY: Match shields to the frequency of their particle beams.
KIM: No effect.
TUVOK: Shield strength down to twenty nine percent.
KELLIN: They'll keep firing until you surrender, or until I contact them and agree to come back.
JANEWAY: Do you still want to stay with us?
KELLIN: Yes.
JANEWAY: All right. Tom, get us our of here.
PARIS: That last volley damaged our propulsion systems. We have thrusters only.
KELLIN: Captain, if you'll let me have access to your sensor systems, I can modify then to detect the ships.
JANEWAY: Do it. This is the moment, Chakotay. Either we give her up or we fire back. Which one is it?
CHAKOTAY: Fire.
KELLIN: I think you might be able to detect them now, but only for a minute or two.
JANEWAY: Harry.
KIM: Affirmative. Two heavily armed ships off the port bow.
JANEWAY: Can we get them on screen?
KIM: That's the best I can do.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, target their weapons systems.
TUVOK: Firing.
JANEWAY: Well done. Stand down Red alert. Well, it seems we've granted you asylum. Now you'll have to give some thought to what you want to do.
KELLIN: I'd prefer to remain on board.
JANEWAY: Consider that carefully. We're headed for the Alpha Quadrant. Before long, we will be so far from your world that if you change your mind, you wouldn't be able to get back.
KELLIN: I won't change my mind. But I must warn you. The Tracers won't give up that easily. Your ship is still at risk.
JANEWAY: Nothing we haven't faced before.
KELLIN: I was only able to make a temporary modification to your sensors. If you let me access your Astrometrics processors, I could make that modification permanent.
JANEWAY: You'll need a command officer with you to override the security lock-outs.
CHAKOTAY: I can do that, Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead. Tom, coordinate with Engineering to get the propulsion systems back online.
PARIS: I'm on it, Captain.

[Jefferies tube]
CHAKOTAY: We'll have to climb up to deck ten. Is something wrong?
KELLIN: I can't relax until we're far enough away that they realize they can't get me back. And to my knowledge, that's never happened before.
CHAKOTAY: There's always a first time.
KELLIN: I have a high security clearance. They'll be afraid I'm going to do exactly what I'm about to do. Show you how to detect them.
CHAKOTAY: Look at it this way. If they do figure out we can spot them, they might realize they aren't going to be able to take you back.
KELLIN: You're such a kind person. That's what I remembered most. It's what made me turn around and come back. And sometime, you might be interested in hearing about our last night together.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Evening, Commander. Craving a late night snack?
CHAKOTAY: No. Something to help me sleep. Got any ideas?
NEELIX: I know humans think warm milk will do it. Frankly, I find it repulsive.
CHAKOTAY: I agree. What's available in the tea area?
NEELIX: Herbal is best. I have several Terran varieties, as well as some more exotic blends.
CHAKOTAY: Just mix me up whatever you think is the most relaxing.
NEELIX: Problems? Forgive me. I wasn't trying to pry.
CHAKOTAY: I know that. I'm just not sure how to answer you.
NEELIX: How's our guest adapting to life on Voyager?
CHAKOTAY: Quite well, I think.
NEELIX: She must be happy to be here.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure she is.
NEELIX: Forgive me, Commander, but sometimes it's best to be straightforward. It's obvious how she feels about you, to me at least. I see how she looks at you. Might that be the source of your consternation?
CHAKOTAY: She says she, or rather we, fell in love when she was here before. Since I can't remember any of that, I don't know if it's true. But somehow, it's hard to believe.
NEELIX: Why is that?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know. It just doesn't seem like me. I'm still suspicious of her. I don't know if she's using me in some way just for her own purposes.
NEELIX: You don't trust her.
CHAKOTAY: Not really.
NEELIX: May I suggest that maybe it's yourself you don't trust, your own feelings that you're afraid of. Sweet dreams.

[Chakotay's quarters]
KELLIN: I couldn't sleep. I need to talk to you. May I come in? I was just wondering if you still had doubts about me, or if you believe what I told you about us?
CHAKOTAY: Your story seems to have been verified. I believe you're telling the truth.
KELLIN: And the rest of it? What about us? I'm not one to hold back, as you may have noticed, so I'll get to the point. I came here because of you. I knew you wouldn't remember me, but I was sure we could regain the feelings we had before. They were there. They were real. But now I'm not so sure. My being here puts this ship at risk. It's better for everyone if I go back to Ramura. So please be honest. If you feel nothing for me, just tell me, and I'll leave.
CHAKOTAY: Don't go.
KELLIN: It's called ice cream?
CHAKOTAY: I'm surprised you didn't have any the last time you were here.
KELLIN: I could eat this every day.
CHAKOTAY: Then you should.
KELLIN: Voyager's a very powerful ship, and very fast.
CHAKOTAY: We've met people with ships that are faster and more powerful, but Voyager's always managed to be a match for the best of them.
KELLIN: Ramuran vessels are fast. They could stay up with this ship.
CHAKOTAY: Kellin, we'll keep you safe. That's a promise.
KELLIN: A Tracer never goes home empty-handed. The disgrace would be too great. When I was here before, I'd been tracking that man for almost a year.
CHAKOTAY: But you know all the tricks. You can use them against anyone who tries to come after you. You said you were going to tell me about our last night together.
KELLIN: Let me show you. You were sitting here, in this chair, and I was here. And we were drinking something with bubbles.
CHAKOTAY: Champagne?
KELLIN: Yes, I wanted to celebrate. I'd caught my runaway that day with your help.
CHAKOTAY: How was that?
KELLIN: You came up with the idea of using a magneton sweep to disrupt his polarization cloak. We knew he'd be watching me closely so we tricked him.

[Flashback - Transporter room]
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry you didn't get your fugitive.
KELLIN: He must have jumped to another ship while Voyager was in orbit of Mikah last week. I'll find him eventually.
CHAKOTAY: If you think we can be of any more help, let me know.
KELLIN: Thank you, Commander. This is my problem. I'll handle it from now on. Just beam me back to my ship and I'll backtrack to Mikah. Goodbye, and thank you again.
CHAKOTAY: Ready to energize.
KELLIN: Hello, Resket. You were a real challenge.
CHAKOTAY: I haven't had the chance to welcome you to Voyager. Too bad you'll be leaving so soon.

[Chakotay's quarters]
KELLIN: We put him in the brig. Once I used the neurolytic emitter on him, he was only too happy to be going home again.
CHAKOTAY: Neurolytic emitter?
KELLIN: We use it on runaways. It wipes their memories of the outside world.
CHAKOTAY: So we were celebrating?
KELLIN: You'd become much more than a friend to me, but I knew I had to go home, and you'd forget about me within hours. So I took the initiative.
CHAKOTAY: More than usual?
KELLIN: Oh, yes. I moved closer to you. I thanked you profusely for all your help, told you that I couldn't have done it without you, and I touched you. I told you I, I cared very much for you and that I wanted something to remember you by. And then I did this.
KELLIN: That's when I knew you felt the same way, But it didn't matter because I still had to go.
CHAKOTAY: But now you don't.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: If Kellin's going to be with us, the captain wants her to serve a function, to contribute in some way.
TUVOK: A reasonable expectation. What are her skills?
CHAKOTAY: Basically, she was a security operative for her people. She's a trained expert in weaponry, surveillance, fighting skills. Any idea where she might fit in?
TUVOK: Mister Neelix could use an assistant in the mess hall.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, that was a joke. Don't deny it. You were trying to be funny.
TUVOK: If you choose to interpret my remark as humorous, that is your decision.
CHAKOTAY: I do, and it was.
TUVOK: It's perfectly logical. All the qualities you mentioned would help in defending Neelix against the periodic wrath of the crew.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe so, but don't you think she'd be better off as a member of your security detail?
TUVOK: Perhaps. I'll assign her to a team and let her observe for a week. At the end of that time I'll evaluate her situation.
CHAKOTAY: Good enough.
TUVOK: Commander, I've been giving some thought to the fact that the Ramuran ships might be in pursuit and could attack us again.
CHAKOTAY: I've given that some thought myself.
TUVOK: Their proton weapons were particularly effective against us. If Kellin would work with Seven and Ensign Kim, perhaps we could devise a strategy to defend ourselves.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure she'll be happy to do that.
TUVOK: Have her report to Astrometrics at thirteen hundred hours.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I've downloaded data from our tactical logs. You can access it from this console.
KELLIN: Our weapons are proton based particle beams, very tightly focused.
KIM: It's like being hit with thousands of needles.
KELLIN: They can penetrate any shield even if the modulations are changed.
KIM: Very clever.
KELLIN: No defense has ever stopped these weapons.
KIM: Then maybe we're about to make history.
KELLIN: You've found a way to counteract them?
KIM: I think so. The trick is to scatter those beams a little, make it harder for them to penetrate the shields. I think we could do that by tying the baryon sensors into deflector control. Here's what I have in mind. Why don't you look this over and let me know what you think?
KELLIN: I'll do it right away.
KIM: By the way, I hear Chakotay recommended you to Tuvok to serve on a security detail.
KELLIN: I want to help out in some way.
KIM: A word of advice. Volunteer for beta squad. They're the best team. You'll learn a lot from them.
KELLIN: I will. Thank you.
SEVEN: When you mentioned Commander Chakotay's name, she flushed. He did the same when he saw her.
KIM: What are you saying?
SEVEN: I suspect the Commander and Kellin are engaged in a courtship ritual. It seems an unnecessary and complicated precursor to the act of procreation.
KIM: I know you think so, but trust me, some people need those rituals.
SEVEN: Explain.
KIM: It's, it's usually considered a good idea if two people get to know each other a little before they become intimate.
SEVEN: Why is that?
KIM: Because it's more comfortable. You spend some time together, you laugh, you talk. That makes it easier to, to get closer.
SEVEN: But the end result is the same, is it not?
KIM: Well, I guess so.
SEVEN: Then I fail to see what is accomplished by all the talk.
KIM: Seven, if you don't get it, then I can't explain it to you.
SEVEN: Obviously.

[Chakotay's quarters]
KELLIN: I should have known. They must have gotten somebody on board during the battle.
CHAKOTAY: You're jumping to conclusions.
KELLIN: No. There's a Tracer. He's here. He's come for me. That broken vase was a warning.
CHAKOTAY: We'll protect you. I'm not going to let anything happen to you.
KELLIN: It's too late.
CHAKOTAY: No. We can use the same magneton sweep we used to flush out Resket. We'll find this one and send him on his way.
CURNETH: I'm afraid I can't let that happen.
KELLIN: Curneth, don't.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Security. Intruder alert, my quarters.
KELLIN: Please, I beg you, don't do this.
CURNETH: You know better than to ask that, Kellin.
KELLIN: No!
CHAKOTAY: Drop it. Drop it!
CURNETH: You're too late. She's already beginning to forget everything that's happened here.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: The Doctor says there's nothing he can do. Your recent memories have already begun to fade.
KELLIN: Don't let this happen, please. Don't let this happen.
CHAKOTAY: Do you have any idea how we can reverse the effect?
KELLIN: Promise me. If I forget why I'm here, if I forget you, do what I did and you tell me all about us, and you'll help me to remember.
CHAKOTAY: I will, but I'm going to try to do more than that.

[Brig]
CHAKOTAY: Can the effects of the neurolytic emitter be reversed?
CURNETH: Reversed? I have no idea. As far as I know, no one's ever tried.
CHAKOTAY: Then I'll be the first. Tell me how the emitter works. How it affects the memory centers.
CURNETH: You sound desperate, Commander. Does Kellin mean that much to you?
CHAKOTAY: What you're doing is wrong. She wants to stay here.
CURNETH: This is futile. Even if I knew how the emitter works, I wouldn't tell you.
CHAKOTAY: You have no right to do this.
CURNETH: I have every right. The laws on our world are very specific about that. No one may leave. No one may reveal anything about us to the outside world. Kellin has violated both of those edicts. Returning her will serve as a deterrent to others who might think of leaving.
CHAKOTAY: Did it ever occur to you that the fact that so many people want to leave might mean that there's something wrong with your society?
CURNETH: We have a strong and cohesive society because of our efforts to keep it that way. A few runaways among millions hardly indicates a problem.
CHAKOTAY: If there are so few, why not let them go?
CURNETH: That would suggest that we don't care about them. What a terrible message.
CHAKOTAY: You may have wiped her memory, but Kellin's not going back.
CURNETH: Maybe we should wait and see if that's what happens.
CHAKOTAY: She made it clear to me that she wants to stay here. So maybe you should start practicing what you're going to tell your superiors.

[Kellin's quarters]
KELLIN: Yes?
CHAKOTAY: The Doctor told me he'd released you. How are you feeling?
KELLIN: I'm fine. Do I know you?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. At least, you did.
KELLIN: You'll have to forgive me but, I don't remember how I got here or anything else that's happened in at least the past few weeks.
CHAKOTAY: I know.
KELLIN: I hope I wasn't throwing things in a fit of rage.
CHAKOTAY: No.
KELLIN: I assume a Tracer is here to take me back?
CHAKOTAY: That's right, but. What I'm going to say will sound strange, but it's what you asked me to do before you lost your memories. You came here about a month ago, looking for a runaway. After you left with him, you decided to come back.
KELLIN: But if I finished my assignment, why would I come back here?
CHAKOTAY: Because you'd fallen in love with me.
KELLIN: Forgive me. You're certainly attractive, but what you're telling me seems very unlikely.
CHAKOTAY: But it's what happened. We started to work together and I began to realize how unique you are. Before long, I couldn't get you out of my mind.
KELLIN: Are you saying that you fell in love with me as well?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. And then we realized the Tracer was on board. After he used the emitter on you, you made me promise to tell you all of this, so you would know what happened between us.
KELLIN: This is a little unsettling. What is it you want from me?
CHAKOTAY: Kellin, don't go back with the Tracer. Stay here for a while, at least for a few days. We can get to know each other again.
KELLIN: I honestly can't imagine what would be served by that. I have to go home.
CHAKOTAY: If you stayed, you might change your mind.
KELLIN: Then that's all the more reason that I should leave now. I've violated one of our most important edicts, and I wouldn't want to make that mistake again. I wish, I wish we had met under different circumstances.

[Transporter room]
CHAKOTAY: Your ship's ready.
KELLIN: Thank you, Commander.
CURNETH: I've implanted a computer virus to eliminate any reference to our being here. By tomorrow afternoon, you'll have forgotten everything. It will be as though we never existed. It's better that way.
KELLIN: You're such a kind person. I won't forget that.
CHAKOTAY: I wish you both the best.
CHAKOTAY: Energize. First Officer's personal log, Stardate 51813.4. Maybe it would be best, as the Tracer said, to forget about Kellin and the time she spent here. But I don't want to do that. I want to remember.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: More coffee, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: No, thanks. I'm almost done.
NEELIX: Strange to see you using those ancient writing implements.
CHAKOTAY: It's the only way I could get a permanent record of what's happened in the last few days. I want to get it down before I forget it all.
NEELIX: I'm sorry things didn't work out for you.
CHAKOTAY: I've been trying to make sense of it. I fell in love with her twice. I thought she could do the same. We were the same two people on the same ship. Why didn't it happen again? I keep going over and over our last conversation, trying to think if there was something I could have said, could have done, but nothing comes to mind.
NEELIX: Commander, I don't think you can analyze love. It's the greatest mystery of all. No one knows why it happens or doesn't. Love is a chance combination of elements. Any one thing might be enough to keep it from igniting. A mood, a glance, a remark. And if we could define love, predict it, it would probably lose its power. I'll let you finish.
CHAKOTAY: Good night.

[Pseudo Ready room]
JANEWAY: When diplomacy fails there's only one alternative. Violence. Force must be applied without apology. It's the Starfleet way.
DALETH: Then our philosophies are in agreement. Will you help us? p
JANEWAY: You're asking me to fight your war, destroy your enemy.
DALETH: I'm asking you to intimidate the Kyrians with your technology. Help me capture their leader. This ship has superior firepower. He won't risk a conflict with you. p
JANEWAY: We risk life and limb so your people can annex Kyrian land. Sounds like a good deal for you. What do we get?
DALETH: A way home. p
JANEWAY: You know more about Voyager than you've let on.
DALETH: Your reputation in this quadrant precedes you. That's why we sought you out. p
JANEWAY: I'm listening.
DALETH: There's a cyclic wormhole five days journey from here. We know where it is, and we can help you stabilize it. p
JANEWAY: If you're lying.
DALETH: How far do you have to go? Sixty thousand light years? p
JANEWAY: I want all tactical data regarding your little war. Kyrian defenses, position of your own forces, everything.
DALETH: You'll have it within the hour.

[Pseudo Bridge]
NEELIX: Eight Kyrian fighter ships approaching. p
JANEWAY: Arm the assault probes. Fire at will. Hail them. p
TUVOK: Channel open. p
JANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway of the warship Voyager. Break off your attack, or I'll destroy you. p
TUVOK: They are not responding. p
PARIS: They're returning fire. Shields are holding. p
JANEWAY: Chakotay, any luck tracking down their leader? p
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. We think Tedran has go-ne into hiding. p
JANEWAY: I thought he might. We'll have to flush him out.
DALETH: What do you suggest? p
JANEWAY: Biogenic weapons. We'll infect the most populated Kyrian territories. The Doctor's nearly done working on the weapon.
DALETH: Our conflict is with Tedran himself, not his people. They're innocent. p
JANEWAY: The best way to bring down a ruler is to make his people suffer.
DALETH: Captain p
JANEWAY: This is no time for half-measures. You wanted victory. You're going to get it. Bridge to Sickbay. Status?

[Pseudo Sickbay]
EMH: We have established a datalink between my neural net and the phaser array. I am reconfiguring the beam to carry a bio-agent into the planet's atmosphere p
JANEWAY (voiceover): When will it be ready? p
EMH: It is ready now, Captain.

[Pseudo Bridge]
TUVOK: Phasers are online. p
JANEWAY: Target the first city. And fire.

[Museum]
QUARREN: The warship Voyager. One of the most powerful vessels of its time. Armed with photonic torpedoes and particle weapons, this ship of destruction could wipe out an entire civilization within hours. On this particular day in history, we were lucky. The death toll could have been much worse. By the time Voyager targeted our major cities, Tedran had already begun an evacuation. Thousands of lives were saved. Unfortunately, it was only the beginning of Captain Janeway's onslaught. As you'll see, her actions would have a lasting effect on our world. Even today, seven hundred years later, we are still feeling the impact of the Voyager encounter. Before we continue the simulation, I'd like to answer any questions you might have.
KYRIAN VISITOR: I'm curious about Voyager itself. How many people were on board?
QUARREN: We believe they had a complement of over three hundred soldiers.
KYRIAN VISITOR: Did they attack other worlds as well?
QUARREN: Well, we aren't certain. Records of Voyager's travels through our quadrant are incomplete, but it's safe to assume that they interfered with many other cultures, yes.
KYRIAN VISITOR: Tell us more about the Borg drones they kept on the ship.
QUARREN: Voyager had many weapons at their disposal, including species they'd assimilated along the way. Borg, Talaxian, Kazon. They were captured and made to work as part of Voyager's fighting force. Let's resume the simulation, and you can see for yourself. It's a few hours after the initial bombardment. Janeway and her squadron are on the bridge mounting their assault. Now, what you are about to see is graphic and unsettling.

[Pseudo Bridge]
JANEWAY: Status. Status! p
NEELIX: Approximately three thousand Kyrians dead. p
JANEWAY: That's it? p
TUVOK: The bio-agent is still dispersing through the atmosphere. The fatality rate will be three hundred thousand soon enough. p
JANEWAY: How soon? p
TUVOK: Best guess, one hour. p
JANEWAY: Why do you always keep me waiting, Tuvok? p
TUVOK: My apologies. Preparing to fire again. p
JANEWAY: Double the yield,
DALETH: Captain, don't you think that's excessive? p
JANEWAY: You picked a bad time to have second thoughts, Ambassador.
DALETH: I want them defeated but, but this is genocide! p
JANEWAY: Defeat? Genocide? Why quibble with semantics?
DALETH: This wasn't our agreement. p
JANEWAY: We're going to defeat the Kyrians, and you're going to keep up your end of the bargain. p
JANEWAY: Ensign, confine this gentleman to the brig. I'll let you know when it's over. p
PARIS: Three more Kyrian vessels approaching. p
JANEWAY: Evade them. p
PARIS: Aye, aye, sir.

[Pseudo Interrogation Room]
CHAKOTAY: The location. p
KIM: Look, I can keep this up all day. Tell the Commander what he wants to know. Maybe I can't keep this up all day. p
CHAKOTAY: I'm a man of peace. My native people are enlightened, non-violent, much like your own. I'm saddened that this has happened to you. If we can work together maybe we can end this conflict. p
KIM: Stand aside, Chakotay. Let me hit him. p
EMH: That hyperspanner would cause an unacceptable level of damage. I remind you, he must still be able to speak. p
KIM: What do you have in mind? p
EMH: This neural solvent. A clean and efficient inducer of pain. Far more effective than your crude attempts at persuasion. p
EMH: No doubt you are experiencing a tingling sensation behind your eyes. The chemical is dissolving your optic nerves. p
CHAKOTAY: I'll ask you again. Where is Tedran? p
EMH: The pain will increase exponentially until your cerebral cortex begins to liquefy. I can reverse the process, if ordered to do so. p
CHAKOTAY: And I want to give that order. But you have to tell me. Where is Tedran?

[Pseudo Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: He's here, at these coordinates. p
JANEWAY: Assuming our prisoner told you the truth. p
CHAKOTAY: Oh, believe me, he was very cooperative at the end. p
JANEWAY: Neelix? p
NEELIX: I'm reading a fortified compound one point six kilometers below the surface. p
JANEWAY: Chakotay, you and Tuvok take an assault team and find Tedran. Make sure he's escorted safely to Voyager. p
CHAKOTAY: Yes, sir. p
JANEWAY: What now? p
PARIS: Intruders. Four Kyrians just beamed into the engine room. p
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. Respond. p
NEELIX: They've erected forcefields. Our soldiers can't get in. p
JANEWAY: They've left me no choice. Computer, initiate the Borg activation sequence.
COMPUTER: Sequence in progress.

[Pseudo Cargo Bay two]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Bridge to Seven of Nine. p
SEVEN: State your instructions. p
JANEWAY (voiceover): A group of Kyrians

[Pseudo Bridge]
JANEWAY: Is in the Engine Room. Stop them.

[Pseudo Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: We understand.

[Pseudo Engineering]
SEVEN: Resistance is futile.

[Pseudo Bridge]
SEVEN (voiceover): Seven of Nine to the bridge. The Kyrian threat has been neutralized. p
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. p
SEVEN (voiceover): Two of the Kyrians are still alive. What shall we do with them? p
JANEWAY: Well, you've been wanting to expand your fighting force. Assimilate them.

[Pseudo Engineering]
SEVEN: We understand.

[Pseudo Bridge]
KIM: I just received word from the attack team. p
JANEWAY: Good news, Lieutenant? p
KIM: Very. They've captured Tedran and one of his aides. They're heading back to Voyager. p
JANEWAY: Take them to chamber nineteen and get the Vaskan ambassador. This is one negotiation he won't want to miss.

[Pseudo Chamber Nineteen]
JANEWAY: Welcome aboard.
TEDRAN: I appreciate your hospitality. Are all your guests treated so well? p
JANEWAY: It's not every day that we receive such an important visitor. The great Tedran. A man of wisdom and peace. A servant of his people. Well, your people need you now more than ever.
TEDRAN: State your demands. p
JANEWAY: Tell your forces to stand down, and I'll call off my attack.
TEDRAN: I understand what the Vaskans want. More of our territory, more resources. But what do you want, Captain? Why are you doing this to us? p
JANEWAY: He's offered my crew a way home.
TEDRAN: To reach your home, you would destroy ours? p
JANEWAY: That's right. And you'd do the same in my position.
TEDRAN: No, I would not. p
JANEWAY: Spoken like a true martyr. You're very enlightened. But are you so proud that you'd let your people die before you'd humble yourself? p
JANEWAY: Tell them to surrender.
TEDRAN: You have shamed us all. We could've ended this on our own, peacefully, without her. p
JANEWAY: Surrender.
TEDRAN: No.
TEDRAN: We will prevail. p
JANEWAY: Don't look so shocked, Ambassador. This is what you wanted, isn't it?

[Museum]
QUARREN: The ensuing conflict was brief but brutal. Two million Kyrians slaughtered within days. The warship Voyager continued on its way, leaving the Kyrian dynasty in ruins. The Vaskan leaders proceeded to occupy our lands, forcing my people into subservience. It took centuries for us to undo the damage that Captain Janeway had done, and the Kyrian struggle for equality is far from over. This simulation and this museum are a testament to that struggle. I hope you found your experience here worthwhile. If you'd like to learn more about Voyager and its role in the history of our planet, I suggest you explore the rest of this exhibit. Thank you for your time.
QUARREN: Please, feel free to test the simulators. I wouldn't touch that if I were you. One of the Voyager's torpedoes. Twenty five isoton yield. It could destroy an entire city within seconds. It's been inactive for centuries but you never know. I'm only teasing, but please be careful. If we damage any of these relics they can never be replaced. The history of our people should be respected.
VASKAN VISITOR: I have a question about that history.
QUARREN: Please.
VASKAN VISITOR: How can you prove that it's true?
QUARREN: Take a closer look. The evidence is all around you.
VASKAN VISITOR: Some musty fossils and a recreation? That doesn't prove anything.
QUARREN: I disagree.
VASKAN VISITOR: You're trying to blame the Vaskans for all your troubles the way you always do. I don't have a problem with your species. I have Kyrian friends. But I don't appreciate seeing my people being portrayed as villains in your little simulation, and I certainly don't want your history taught to my children.
QUARREN: You'd better get used to the idea, because we've just uncovered an artifact that's going to confirm everything you've seen here. Three weeks ago our research team found a data storage device buried nine meters beneath the ruins at Kesef. I've confirmed that it came from Voyager.
VASKAN VISITOR: Another fossil.
QUARREN: The device contains active data. Possibly crew logs, even Captain Janeway's personal almanac. In the next few days, we could be hearing Voyager's version of these events in their own words.
VASKAN VISITOR: And what if those words tell a different story? What then?
QUARREN: We will change our views accordingly.
VASKAN VISITOR: I'm sure you will.
QUARREN: I apologize. Please, enjoy the rest of your visit.

[Museum - night]
QUARREN: Activate recreation, the Voyager Encounter. Display Engine Room.

[Pseudo Engineering]
QUARREN: Begin dictation. I'm resuming work on artifact two seven one, the Voyager data storage device. I've decided to try using period tools from the simulation itself. With any luck, they'll be more compatible. Hmm. There's far more data here than I expected. Seems more like a program of some sort. Yes. Yes, it's an optronic datastream. A hologram.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency. Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
QUARREN: I recognize you. You're Voyager's doctor.
EMH: What am I doing in Engineering? Where's my mobile emitter?
QUARREN: You're not an android.
EMH: Of course not. What are you talking about? A Kyrian. Doctor to the bridge, intruder alert. Security to Engineering.
QUARREN: You won't have much luck with that. Nothing in here is real. It's a simulation.
EMH: A holodeck?
QUARREN: No. You're in the Museum of Kyrian Heritage.
EMH: You've stolen my program. How?
QUARREN: Please, let me try to explain.
EMH: Try quickly.
QUARREN: You are a hologram.
EMH: That I know.
QUARREN: I just discovered your program inside this data storage device.
EMH: That's the EMH backup module. One of your attack parties must have taken it from Sickbay.
QUARREN: Actually, we found it at the ruins at Kesef. I know this will be difficult for you to accept, but a great deal of time has passed since Voyager encountered the Kyrians.
EMH: How much time?
QUARREN: Seven hundred years, give or take a decade. We're not certain.
EMH: I don't believe you.
QUARREN: Think about it. When your program is inactive, a moment or a millennium are the same to you.
EMH: Seven hundred years? What about my ship? What happened to my crew?
QUARREN: No one knows. It's safe to say they're long dead.
EMH: And I'm some sort of fossil?
QUARREN: No, not a fossil. A witness. A living witness to history. There's so much we don't know about what happened. But you saw it, you lived through those times. You helped to shape them. Doctor, you could be the most important discovery of all time.
EMH: No. This is impossible.
QUARREN: Doctor.
EMH: I don't believe you!
QUARREN: Doctor!

[Museum]
EMH: What's going to happen to me now? Will you put me on display? The holographic Rip van Winkle?
QUARREN: I'm not sure.
EMH: I want to try to contact Starfleet, if there still is a Starfleet.
QUARREN: That will have to wait.
EMH: Wait for what?
QUARREN: There are other issues to be resolved.
EMH: What kind of issues?
QUARREN: You're the Voyager doctor. A lot of people are going to have questions. On our world, artificial lifeforms are considered sentient and responsible for their actions. You might have to face charges.
EMH: Charges?
QUARREN: For your crimes. You designed the bio-weapons that killed eight million Kyrians.
EMH: I did nothing of the sort.
QUARREN: All of our evidence shows that you were a war criminal.
EMH: Evidence? What evidence? Like this, for example? Triple-armored hull? Thirty torpedo tubes? Twenty five phaser banks? This isn't what our ship looked like.
QUARREN: We reconstructed it from a partial schematic found in the Cyrik ocean, which was badly damaged by corrosion. We were bound to get a few details wrong.
EMH: Voyager wasn't a warship. We were explorers.
QUARREN: Yes, I know. Trying to get home, to Mars.
EMH: Earth! You see, you couldn't even get that right. This is a nightmare. What if I'm found guilty? What's going to happen to me?
QUARREN: That's up to the Arbiters, but I imagine the penalty would be severe. Your program could be de-compiled.
EMH: You've got to believe me. To you, this may be ancient history. To me, it's yesterday. You called me a living witness. Well, at least give me the chance to set the record straight. I want to see your version of what happened.

[Pseudo Briefing room]
PARIS: We've already drained two phaser banks, and he hasn't hit anything. p
TUVOK: If you looked at your console once in a while instead of chasing the female ensigns, you'd see otherwise. p
KIM: Tom's right. This war was supposed to be over in five minutes. p
CHAKOTAY: You have a better idea, Lieutenant? p
PARIS: As a matter of fact I do. Fighter shuttles. A direct assault. p
NEELIX: Led by you? Good luck. p
PARIS: Watch your mouth, hedgehog. p
CHAKOTAY: I haven't heard a single good idea. p
PARIS: Well, then propose something, First Officer. Earn your rank for once. p
JANEWAY: Gentlemen. Gentlemen! p
JANEWAY: Save it for the holodeck. We've got a war to fight. We've only been attacking the Kyrian military installations. A mistake. We should target the general population. p
EMH: Excellent idea, Captain. I have examined the Kyrian genome and they would be vulnerable to any number of biological weapons. p
JANEWAY: How soon could you have one ready? p
EMH: Within the hour. p
JANEWAY: Dismissed.
EMH: Pure fiction. This is absurd.
QUARREN: Halt recreation. This is a reasonable extrapolation from historic record. But if you'd like to point out any inconsistencies.
EMH: Inconsistencies? I don't know where to begin. Granted, this looks like the briefing room but these aren't the people I knew. No one behaved like this. Well, aside from Mister Paris. We weren't at each other's throats. We didn't talk about how to destroy planets. We helped people. We were an enlightened crew.
QUARREN: Are you denying these events took place?
EMH: Yes.
QUARREN: Are you saying you never got involved with the conflict between my people and the Vaskans?
EMH: Yes! Well, no, we did get involved, but it was nothing like this.
QUARREN: Elaborate.
EMH: There was a meeting in this room, but it wasn't about battle tactics. It was about a dilemma we were facing. We had negotiated a trade agreement with the Vaskans. We were dealing with a representative, Ambassador
QUARREN: Ambassador Daleth.
EMH: Daleth. Exactly. Everything was going according to plan until we were attacked. By your people, the Kyrians. They'd picked that moment to start a war and we were caught in the middle.
QUARREN: The Kyrians were the aggressors? No, no. That can't be right.
EMH: Captain Janeway called this meeting to figure out how we could extricate ourselves from the conflict and still maintain the trade agreement with the Vaskans. But we weren't on their side, and we certainly never attacked you.
QUARREN: Save your objections until you see the entire recreation. Let's continue.

[Pseudo Chamber 19]
TEDRAN: We will prevail. p
JANEWAY: Don't look so shocked, Ambassador. This is what you wanted, isn't it?
EMH: Somewhere, halfway across the galaxy I hope, Captain Janeway is spinning in her grave. You've portrayed us as monsters. The Captain's a cold-blooded killer, the crew's a gang of thugs and I'm a mass murderer.
QUARREN: Calm yourself.
EMH: Why should I? I'm about to be hanged for crimes I didn't commit!
QUARREN: Tell me your version of events.
EMH: I remember this man.
QUARREN: Tedran. He was a martyr to our people.
EMH: Some martyr. He led the Kyrian attack against Voyager.
QUARREN: You're lying.
EMH: I was there.
QUARREN: You're trying to protect yourself.
EMH: And so are you. From the truth. Isn't it a coincidence that the Kyrians are being portrayed in the best possible light? Martyrs, heroes, saviors. Obviously, events have been reinterpreted to make your people feel better about themselves. Revisionist history. It's such a comfort.
QUARREN: We were not the aggressors in the Great War, we were the victims. The proof can be found anywhere on this world. The Kyrian people are being oppressed to this day.
EMH: The problems in your society are none of my business. I'm just telling you what I saw seven hundred years ago.
QUARREN: I don't believe you, and neither will anyone else.
EMH: What are you doing?
QUARREN: Shutting down your program.
EMH: Wait, please. I can prove to you I'm right. The medical tricorder, the artifact you have on display. If you just let me
QUARREN: Lies.

[Quarren's home]
QUARREN: Begin dictation. I've re-examined the data module. From what I can tell, the Doctor was telling the truth, at least about one thing. He is a hologram. A backup program. We always knew he was an artificial lifeform but, we thought he was an android. If we were mistaken about that, I wonder if we might also be wrong about Voyager itself. Another question. Why would a hologram designed for medical purposes be programmed to lie so readily? From the moment I activated him, this Doctor has insisted that he's innocent. At first I didn't believe him. End dictation.

[Museum]
QUARREN: Activate recreation, the Voyager encounter. Display medical chamber.

[pseudo Sickbay]
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical. Oh, it's you.
QUARREN: You've given me a lot to think about.
EMH: Really? I thought you'd heard enough of my lies.
QUARREN: I judged you too quickly. I'm sorry.
EMH: What changed your mind?
QUARREN: Time to think.
EMH: For your information, I don't appreciate being deactivated in the middle of a sentence. It brings back unpleasant memories.
QUARREN: It won't happen again.
EMH: Good, because if you don't stop treating me like a second-class hologram, I won't cooperate with your investigation. I'm perfectly happy to lie dormant in that module for a few eons.
QUARREN: I didn't come here to argue.
EMH: Then what do you want?
QUARREN: I don't know. To talk, I guess, about what really happened seven hundred years ago.
EMH: Are you sure you're willing to listen to a mass-murderer like me?
QUARREN: I'm willing to keep an open mind. That's the most I can promise. Try to understand my point of view. All my life, I thought I knew the truth. There was never any doubt.
EMH: I never meant to throw your beliefs into doubt, but I can't deny what I know to be true.
QUARREN: I realize that now, and I want to know the truth. And I want the Arbiters to know it, too.
EMH: Well, the stage is certainly set, but I'll have to rewrite the characters and revise the plot a little. I'm quite adept in the art of holographic programming. If you'll give me access to your technology, maybe I can create a simulation of own. Show you what happened.

[Pseudo Ready room]
JANEWAY: Don't worry, Ambassador. We've got plenty of medical supplies and we'd be more than happy to share them with you.
DALETH: Then we agree. In exchange, we'll provide you with as much dilithium as you need. p
JANEWAY: That's very generous, Ambassador
DALETH: I'll transport the canisters immediately. It would be in your best interest to make this exchange quickly. p
JANEWAY: Oh? Why's that?
DALETH: We've been conflict with a neighboring species, the Kyrians. They've been threatening to attack us. War could break out any day. We've tried every diplomatic option, but the Kyrians are a violent, stubborn people. p
JANEWAY: No problem. I understand what you're going through.
DALETH: I wish I could make you one of our diplomats. You might have better luck resolving this situation. p
JANEWAY: Under different circumstances. Janeway to Sickbay.

[Pseudo Sickbay]
EMH: This is the Doctor. p
JANEWAY (voiceover): Ambassador Daleth and I have reached an agreement.

[Pseudo Ready room]
JANEWAY: Assemble the medical supplies. p
EMH (voiceover): Done, Captain. The supplies are in Cargo Bay one. p
JANEWAY: Once we transport the supplies to the surface there may be a p
TUVOK (voiceover): Red alert. Captain Janeway to the bridge.

[Pseudo Bridge]
TUVOK: We're being fired on by three ships.
DALETH: The Kyrians. p
JANEWAY: Hail them. p
TUVOK: Channel open. p
JANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager. We are not your enemies. Please break off your attack. p
TUVOK: They're not responding.
DALETH: I'd advise you to retreat, Captain. p
KIM: Shields down to eight six percent. p
JANEWAY: Break out of orbit. Put some distance between us. p
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. p
TUVOK: Four intruders. They are in Engineering. p
JANEWAY: Janeway to Engineering. B'Elanna, respond. Tuvok.

[Pseudo Engineering]
TEDRAN: Take as much of their technology as you can. p
SEVEN: You will fail. p
TUVOK: Drop your weapons.
TEDRAN: Back away.

[Pseudo Bridge]
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to Janeway. p
JANEWAY: Go ahead. p
TUVOK (voiceover): The Kyrians have killed

[Pseudo Engineering]
TUVOK: Three of the engineering crew. They've taken Seven of Nine and one of the injured crew members hostage.

[Pseudo Bridge]
TUVOK (voiceover): They're now on deck two, section thirty two. p
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Remember your offer to make me a diplomat? Well, it looks like I don't have much of a choice. Tell the doctor we have casualties. Have him meet us on deck two.

[Pseudo Corridor]
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok. We're approaching section thirty one. p
TUVOK (voiceover): The evacuation of deck two is complete. p
JANEWAY: Send three security teams to this deck, then seal all the access points. p
TUVOK (voiceover): Acknowledged.
DALETH: How typical of the Kyrians. p
EMH: What do you mean?
DALETH: They fight the same way they live. Deviously. p
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok. p
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok here. p
JANEWAY: The Kyrians are in the mess hall. We're going in. p
TUVOK (voiceover): Security is on the way. p
EMH: I'll go first, Captain, and draw any fire if need be.
DALETH: Your crew is heroic, Captain. p
EMH: I just happen to be invulnerable to phaser fire, but I appreciate the compliment. Captain? p
JANEWAY: Go.

[Pseudo Mess hall]
DALETH: Tedran, this is between us. Leave these people out of it.
TEDRAN: I know what you're doing. An alliance with these aliens. p
JANEWAY: We were trading with them, nothing more.
TEDRAN: You expect me to believe that? You plan to use this ship to destroy us.
DALETH: We wouldn't need help if we wanted to destroy you. p
JANEWAY: We didn't realize you were fighting with the Vaskans. Now, lay down your weapons and I promise you won't be harmed. p
JANEWAY: No! p
EMH: He's dead.
EMH: Computer, freeze program. A tragic, needless death, but as you can see, Voyager was not responsible. After Tedran was killed, Voyager was attacked by nine Kyrian ships. My program was disabled, most likely when they stole my backup module. The next thing I knew, I was standing next to this gentleman seven centuries later.
KYRIAN ARBITER: Very entertaining.
EMH: I'll admit your holotechnology is new to me. I had to extrapolate in a few places. But I assure you this is an accurate recreation.
KYRIAN ARBITER: Perhaps. Or perhaps it's the fabrication of a war criminal who's afraid for his life.
VASKAN ARBITER: Do you have any evidence to support your explanation?
EMH: In fact, I do. I've confirmed that this is the same tricorder I used to scan Tedran at the moment of his death. If I can access the bio-readings inside, I can prove he was killed by a Vaskan weapon, not by Captain Janeway.
VASKAN ARBITER: Can this be done?
QUARREN: I've been trying to decipher the instrument for years, but, with the Doctor's help
KYRIAN ARBITER: I fail to see what this would prove. Tedran died on Voyager, a victim of a conspiracy to oppress my people. The weapon used, who fired it, this is all beside the point.
VASKAN ARBITER: Was there a conspiracy? Did Voyager really help my ancestors to start the Great War? Or were Kyrians the aggressors as my people have always believed? Now, this casts doubt on everything.
KYRIAN ARBITER: But it doesn't change the fact my children can't attend the same academies as yours, or that we are forced to live outside of the city center.
VASKAN ARBITER: Today's problems are not at issue here. This is about history.
EMH: Look, I don't know who started your war. All I'm saying is that Voyager wasn't responsible.
KYRIAN ARBITER: I can't believe that you would cooperate with this murderer. You of all people. You built this museum.
QUARREN: The facts are turning out to be more complex than I expected.
KYRIAN ARBITER: We shouldn't be listening to this hologram. I want him arrested and charged for the crimes we know he committed.
VASKAN ARBITER: That's not your decision to make.
KYRIAN ARBITER: No, it's not, is it? I'm only on this commission because you needed a token Kyrian.
QUARREN: Please. This isn't about race.
KYRIAN ARBITER: It's always about race. You seize every opportunity to keep yourselves in power.
VASKAN ARBITER: I'm sorry you see it that way. I think we are obligated to hear what the Doctor has to say. Proceed with your investigation.
QUARREN: Yes, Arbiter.
KYRIAN ARBITER: You'll pay for your crimes.

[Pseudo Sickbay]
EMH: Seven hundred years and I'm still caught in the middle of your little dispute. One might have hoped for a bit of social progress in the interim.
QUARREN: Change never comes easily for us.
EMH: Hmm. That's an understatement.
QUARREN: I've entered the specifications that you gave me.
EMH: Let's give it a try. Hmm. Close enough. This diagnostic tool should help me get past the initial encryption sequences. Too bad we can't re-create B'Elanna Torres.
QUARREN: Torres. The chief transporter operator.
EMH: Chief Engineer. You might want to make the correction in your history books.
QUARREN: What was she like, Torres? I suppose we've gotten her personality wrong too.
EMH: Starting to believe me, are you?
QUARREN: Well, let's just say I'm trying to keep an open mind.
EMH: B'Elanna Torres. Intelligent, beautiful and with a chip on her shoulder the size of the Horsehead Nebula. She also had a kind of vulnerability that made her quite endearing.
QUARREN: You miss her, and the others.
EMH: From my perspective, I saw them all only a few days ago. But in fact, it's been centuries, and I'll never see them again. Did they ever reach home? I wonder.
QUARREN: I've always wondered that too, from as far back as I can remember.
EMH: Really?
QUARREN: Ever since I was a small child, the first time I heard the name Voyager, it conjured up my imagination.
EMH: Even though we were the bad guys?
QUARREN: That didn't matter. I was too young to understand the implications. The fact you were so far from home, traveling across the stars. Ah, I found it all very heroic. I suppose Voyager is what made me fall in love with history.
EMH: If it means anything to you, you would have made a fine member of our crew.
EMH: I hope that's part of the simulation.
QUARREN: No, it isn't.

[Museum]
MOB: Everything goes! The days of lies are over! Destroy it all!
QUARREN: No! Stop this!
VASKAN VISITOR: We know about the hologram. This museum's filled with lies.
QUARREN: Stop! Listen to me!
VASKAN VISITOR: We've listened long enough!
QUARREN: They're using photon grenades. We've got to take cover. This way.
EMH: What's happening? I've been hearing weapons.
QUARREN: It's getting worse. Protests, vandalism. Two people have been killed. Don't worry, they've cordoned off the museum. We're safe for now.
EMH: That's not what I'm concerned about. Two deaths, a race riot, all because of me?
QUARREN: You were only the catalyst. The pressure's been building for years. It was only a matter of time before something set it off. Have you found the tricorder?
EMH: Not yet.
QUARREN: It's crucial that we do. The Kyrians are demanding you be punished for your crimes, but the Vaskans want to hear your version of events again. They want to continue the investigation.
EMH: What's going to happen?
QUARREN: I don't know. The Vaskans are more powerful, but the Kyrians are very angry. They're talking about another war.
EMH: Then there's only one solution. Delete my program. I've become a kind of symbol for this conflict. As long as I'm around your people are going to keep on fighting. I'll show you how to decompile my program. You can say I was damaged in the attack last night. No one will hold you responsible.
QUARREN: I can't do that to you.
EMH: Then I'll do it myself.
QUARREN: No!
EMH: I'm a medical hologram, programmed to do no harm. But I'm doing harm on a global scale. Ever since you reactivated me, I've been concerned with clearing Voyager's good name. But that's not important now. There's more at stake.
QUARREN: A few days ago I might have agreed with you, but what about the facts?
EMH: Facts be damned! Names, dates, places, it's all open to interpretation. Who's to say what really happened? And ultimately, what difference does it make? What matters is today and the future of your people.
QUARREN: Doctor, you were there. You can't deny what happened.
EMH: I can, and I will. Tedran was a martyr for your people, a hero. A symbol of your struggle for freedom. Who am I to wander in seven hundred years later and take that away from you?
QUARREN: History has been abused. We keep blaming each other for what happened in the past. If you don't help us now, it could be another seven hundred years.
EMH: Let's find that tricorder.

[Future Museum]
TABRIS: It was a pivotal moment in our history. As a result of the Doctor's testimony, a dialogue was opened between our peoples. Eventually, we found a new respect for our divergent cultures and traditions. The efforts of people like Quarren and the Doctor paved the way for unity. Quarren died six years later, but he lived long enough to witness the Dawn of Harmony.
KYRIAN SPECTATOR: And the Doctor?
TABRIS: Well, he served as our surgical chancellor for many years until he decided to leave. He took a small craft and set a course for the Alpha Quadrant, attempting to trace the path of Voyager. He said he had a longing for home. This way.

[Bridge]
KIM: The ship is gray, Captain. We've cut power to decks four through nine. Replicators, holodecks and all other nonessentials are offline. Remaining systems are operating at twenty percent capacity.
JANEWAY: Tom, how long can you keep us flying?
PARIS: With the deuterium supply this low? Even at one quarter impulse we'll be out of gas inside a week.
JANEWAY: Everyone redouble your efforts. Keep your eyes open for new sources of deuterium. Tuvok, Chakotay, I want recommendations for further methods of conservation. Harry, you and I will give them a hand in geophysics. See if we can't synthesize a substitute fuel. In the meantime, we stay in gray mode. If anybody's got any other ideas, I'm listening.
PARIS: We could set up a bicycle in the mess hall, attach a generator, pedal home.
JANEWAY: Now why didn't I think of that?
PARIS: And I volunteer Harry to take the first shift.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: Living space will be extremely limited. Take only those personal items which are absolutely essential.
NEELIX: Hello, there.
TUVOK: What, may I ask, is this?
NEELIX: That, Mister Vulcan, is the Selected Works of Jirex.
TUVOK: Only essential items, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Oh, Jirex is essential. He's the greatest writer in the Talaxian canon. I never go to sleep without reading at least one of his parables.
TUVOK: A habit you will have to break until we're able to restore power to crew quarters.
NEELIX: I suppose I can try.
TUVOK: And these?
NEELIX: I get terrible neck pains without them.
TUVOK: I suggest you ask the Doctor to prescribe an anti-inflammatory.
NEELIX: Fine. I don't mind roughing it.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix. The blankets.
NEELIX: No, no, that's where I draw the line. My mother knitted these herself. I've slept with them since I was a child.
TUVOK: You'll have to make do with standard issue bedding.
NEELIX: Those Starfleet blankets give me a rash.
TUVOK: I suggest you ask the Doctor
NEELIX: For some anti-itch cream. I might as well sleep in Sickbay. Thank you, Mister Vulcan. You've just given me an idea.

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: What's going on here?
SEVEN: I'm working.
CHAKOTAY: You were ordered to shut down Astrometrics an hour ago. We can't afford the power. Seven, it's inefficient.
SEVEN: Efficiency is relative, Commander. If I shut down Astrometrics, I won't be able to scan for new fuel sources.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your efforts, but we'll have to use conventional scanners until
SEVEN: Conventional scanners would not have found this.
CHAKOTAY: What?
SEVEN: Highly concentrated deuterium.
CHAKOTAY: Where?
SEVEN: Computer, display source. A planetoid point four light-years from our present position. There are dense pockets of deuterium just beneath the surface.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe so, but that's a Demon class planet.
SEVEN: Demon class?
CHAKOTAY: That's what Starfleet calls it. Also known as Class Y. It's got a toxic atmosphere filled with thermionic radiation. Surface temperatures are in excess of five hundred Kelvins. Just entering a standard orbit would be suicide.
SEVEN: Our situation is desperate.
CHAKOTAY: True.
SEVEN: When faced with desperate circumstances, we must adapt.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. I've ordered adaptations to our shields to repel the thermionic discharges. Hoping that the benefits will outweigh the risks, we're now trying to beam deuterium from beneath the planet's surface.

[Transporter room]
SEVEN: Narrow the annular confinement beam to point four seven terahertz. Ready here, Captain.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Stand by. Harry, shunt whatever additional power you can to the containment field. I don't want any of those atmospheric gasses seeping in.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: A thermionic discharge has struck the forward shields. They're holding.
JANEWAY: Let's get this over with before you tell me otherwise. Seven, do it.

[Transporter room]
SEVEN: Energize. Transport in progress.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Shields are weakening.
KIM: I'm reading an overload in the pattern buffers.
JANEWAY: Abort transport.

[Transporter room]
SEVEN: Controls not responding.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Get out of there now.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: Computer, seal off the transporter room and erect a level ten containment field.
COMPUTER: Containment field established.

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: The good news is Nozawa and Seven of Nine have both been treated and released from Sickbay, and the planetary gasses have been expelled from the transporter room.
JANEWAY: And the bad news?
CHAKOTAY: The transporters are offline. It'll take days before they're back again.
JANEWAY: Great. We use valuable energy on a course change and all we get for our trouble is another downed system. Can we send a probe to collect the deuterium?
TUVOK: It would incinerate within seconds of entering the upper atmosphere.
JANEWAY: Then I don't see any other options. Tom, put us back on our original course, one quarter impulse.
KIM: Captain, maybe I can help.
PARIS: Harry, the bicycle thing was just a joke.
KIM: I've been thinking. With Tuvok's shield modifications and a few tweaks to an environmental suit, I could take a shuttle to the surface and mine the deuterium from there.
TUVOK: Need I remind you, Ensign, that there is no environment less hospitable to humanoid life than a Class Y.
KIM: Actually, Tuvok, no, you needn't remind me. What's the alternative? Resume course? Creep along at quarter impulse hoping we find fuel before we end up dead in the water? We've got deuterium within arm's reach. We can't let the opportunity slip away without at least trying.
CHAKOTAY: He's got a point.
JANEWAY: You wouldn't be able to communicate with us if you got in trouble, and until we get transporters back we couldn't beam you out.
TUVOK: Even with modifications, it wouldn't be long before your suit began to corrode. Exposure to that atmosphere could kill you within minutes.
KIM: I know the risks.
JANEWAY: Even if I agreed, I'd never let you go alone.
KIM: Of course not. That's why I'm volunteering my good buddy Tom here to go with me.

[Corridor]
PARIS: You were pretty forceful in there.
KIM: So?
PARIS: So? I don't think I've ever seen you that assertive in a staff meeting before. You must be bucking for a promotion.
KIM: I had an idea and I spoke up, that's all.
PARIS: Oh, no, no, no. It was more than that. You put Tuvok in his place right in front of everybody.
KIM: He was stating the obvious again. Talking down to me like I didn't know anything about Demon Class planets.
PARIS: I am not criticizing you. Believe me, nobody enjoys seeing the Vulcan Master put down a peg more than I do. I was just surprised, that's all.
KIM: Why?
PARIS: It didn't seem like you.
KIM: Good.

[Turbolift]
KIM: Cargo bay two.
PARIS: You trying to change your squeaky clean image or something?
KIM: Not exactly.
PARIS: What, then.
KIM: How do I explain this? When I first came on board Voyager I was pretty green, right?
PARIS: A deep, almost fluorescent green, if I remember correctly.
KIM: I was young, inexperienced, and I acted like it. Nervous about giving my opinion, hesitant to make suggestions, so I usually just kept my mouth shut. And I behaved that way for so long it became a habit. But, in the last four years, a lot has happened. I've fought the Borg, been transformed into an alien, helped defeat the Hirogen. Hell, I've even come back from the dead.
PARIS: It's been a wild ride.
KIM: I woke up the other morning and it suddenly hit me. I've got a lot of experience now, so why should I be afraid to take the initiative or voice my ideas?
PARIS: Good for you, Harry.

[Corridor]
PARIS: But do me a favor. The next time you try to assert yourself, leave me out of it. I hate hot weather.
KIM: Don't worry. We can cut some holes in the environmental suits, get some ventilation going.
PARIS: Harry, while you're busy improving yourself, you might try working on your sense of humor.
KIM: My sense of humor? What about that stupid gag about the bicycle?
PARIS: Oh, ho, ho. That was funny.
KIM: No, that was not funny.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: I can't thank you enough for getting me in on this mission, Harry.
KIM: Don't mention it.
PARIS: Remind me to volunteer you to help the next time I have to clean the warp plasma manifolds.
KIM: Really, Tom, you don't owe me anything.
PARIS: Oh, but I do. We've lost attitude control.
KIM: Time to show off your piloting skills. Think you can handle it?
PARIS: Watch me.
KIM: Oh, I'll be watching you, all right. Switching to manual control.
PARIS: Just sit back, relax, and enjoy the ride.
KIM: We're entering the lower atmosphere. Approaching the landing coordinates.
PARIS: All right. I'm going to set us down. On my mark.
PARIS: Mark.
KIM: You did that on purpose, didn't you.

[Planet surface]
PARIS: It's almost five hundred degrees Kelvin.
KIM: Don't worry. The suits can handle it.
PARIS: If not, we'll be human barbecue.
KIM: I'm picking up traces of deuterium. Fifty meters that way. Let's move.
PARIS: No sweat.
KIM: Lame.

[Cavern]
KIM: It's coming from inside here.
PARIS: What is it?
KIM: Some kind of metallic compound. Highly viscous, And if these readings are right, its temperature is only twelve degrees?
PARIS: In this environment?
KIM: Whatever this stuff is it's packed with liquefied deuterium.
PARIS: Jackpot!
KIM: There's another pool twenty meters that way. Why don't you go check it out while I collect a few samples here.
PARIS: Right. I don't know, Harry. A couple of lounge chairs, a big beach umbrella, maybe some dermalplast to counteract the chemical burns and I think we've found ourselves a new vacation spot. Oh, come on. That was a little funny. Let me hear you do better. Harry. Harry?
PARIS: Oh, my god.
PARIS: I know it's hot out, Harry, but you picked a lousy time to go for a swim.
KIM: I don't know what happened. I leaned over to collect a sample and it was like I was pulled in.
COMPUTER: Warning, Ensign Kim. An environmental seal has been compromised. Oxygen depletion in thirty seconds.
PARIS: Hang in there, buddy, and I'll get you back to the shuttle. Have you put on weight?
KIM: You're just out of shape.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in fifteen seconds.
PARIS: I'll make you a deal. You hold your breath till we get back to the shuttle and I promise I'll start exercising every day.
KIM: Maybe you should start with the bicycle.
PARIS: I thought I told you to hold your breath.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in five seconds.
PARIS: Hang in there, Harry. We'll make it.
COMPUTER: Warning, Lieutenant Paris. An environmental seal has been compromised. Oxygen depletion in thirty seconds.
PARIS: You've got to be kidding me. We're in the same boat now, buddy, but I'll get us out of this.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in fifteen seconds.
PARIS: You're right. I definitely need to get back in shape.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in five seconds.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Out of the question.
NEELIX: Be reasonable, Doctor.
EMH: Take it up with Commander Chakotay. He's on his way here right now.
NEELIX: But it's only for a couple of days. Just until we get power back in the crew quarters.
EMH: I suggest you set up camp in the mess hall.
NEELIX: The mess hall is full. Where are we supposed to sleep?
EMH: Anywhere but here. This is a sickbay, not a dormitory.
NEELIX: But you have four empty beds.
EMH: Biobeds, reserved for patients.
NEELIX: You don't have any patients.
EMH: I may have one in a moment if you and your fellow squatters don't go elsewhere.
CHAKOTAY: You wanted to see me, Doctor?
EMH: Oh, it's about time. Mister Neelix is attempting to turn my sickbay into a flophouse.
CHAKOTAY: We are short on beds right now. We've got to adapt.
NEELIX: Ah ha!
EMH: But, what if there's a medical emergency?
CHAKOTAY: Then Neelix and the others will get out of the way.
NEELIX: Absolutely.
EMH: But, this isn't just sickbay, it's my residence.
NEELIX: And we promise to be the most perfect houseguests.
CHAKOTAY: What more can you ask for.
EMH: But, I have a routine. I'm a night owl. What if one of them should snore while I'm listening to Puccini?
CHAKOTAY: Well, if you feel that strongly about it, Doc, I suppose we'll have to consider other options.
EMH: Thank you, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: For example, we could shut down your program until you're needed. The Captain asked me to look for ways to conserve power, and it would spare you from having to listen to them snore.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Commander Chakotay to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: On my way.
EMH: But
EMH: Make yourselves at home.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Try scanning for infrared signatures.
TUVOK: There's too much interference.
CHAKOTAY: What's up?
JANEWAY: Tom and Harry still aren't back.
CHAKOTAY: You want me to take another shuttle down and look for them?
JANEWAY: And risk losing you, too? Either we keep waiting until we run out of deuterium and we get trapped in orbit, or
CHAKOTAY: Or?
JANEWAY: We land the ship.
TUVOK: As you know, Captain, the landing procedure requires a significant output of energy. With shield strength as low as it is, we can't even be certain the ship will survive the descent.
JANEWAY: What's the alternative? We're up here, the deuterium's down there, and we're stuck without it. We've come this far. Janeway to engineering. Vent all plasma from the nacelles. Transfer any available power to atmospheric thrusters and stand by to commence landing sequence.
TORRES (voiceover): Acknowledged, Captain.
JANEWAY: Commander Chakotay, take the conn.
CHAKOTAY: Tom's going to be sorry he missed this.
JANEWAY: Code blue.
TUVOK: Commander Tuvok to all hands. Go to Blue alert and report to Code Blue stations.
CHAKOTAY: Atmospheric controls at standby. Landing struts online. Inertial dampers at maximum.
TUVOK: All operative decks report condition blue.
JANEWAY: Let us down easy, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: We're on a declining glide trajectory. Altitude one hundred and fifty kilometers.
TUVOK: A thermionic discharge. Shields down to eighty one percent. Shields at forty three percent.
JANEWAY: Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: I think we're through the worst of it. Almost.
TUVOK: Shields at twenty two percent and falling.
JANEWAY: Can you shore them up?
TUVOK: Negative. There's no more available power.
CHAKOTAY: Engaging landing struts. Brace for impact!
JANEWAY: Status?
TUVOK: I could give you a litany of damaged systems, Captain, but suffice it to say, now that we're down, we won't go up again soon.
JANEWAY: Start organizing repair crews. That was very good, Commander. Take an away team and find Harry and Tom.

[Corridor]
TORRES: Chakotay, you're going out to look for them, aren't you?
CHAKOTAY: That's right.
TORRES: Take me with you.
CHAKOTAY: I can't do that, B'Elanna. You're needed here to complete repairs.
TORRES: I've already handed out assignments. Vorik's on top of it. I want to help you find them.
CHAKOTAY: Look, I know you're concerned about Tom and Harry. We all are. I'll have them back safe and sound in no time.
TORRES: Don't patronize me. We both know how dangerous that environment is. They could be in serious trouble.
CHAKOTAY: You're right. I don't know what we're going to find. That's why I need cool heads.
TORRES: You think I can't control myself?
CHAKOTAY: I think you're a little too close to this.
TORRES: You're damn right I am. If someone you loved was missing on this planet you would be the first one out that door, and you know it.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, the clock is ticking. Go back to Engineering, do your job and let me do mine.
TORRES: Do me a favor.
CHAKOTAY: What?
TORRES: Take Seven of Nine with you.
CHAKOTAY: You're recommending her?
TORRES: You said you needed cool heads, didn't you? Nobody's head is cooler than hers.
CHAKOTAY: All right.
TORRES: And bring them back safe.
CHAKOTAY: I will.

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: Excuse me, Doctor.
EMH: Yes, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: We'd like to sleep now, if you don't mind.
EMH: Not at all. Make yourselves comfortable.
NEELIX: But you seem busy.
EMH: Oh, don't mind me. Just going about my routine. Sleep away.
NEELIX: What about the lights?
EMH: What about them?
NEELIX: Could we turn them off?
EMH: You don't expect me to work in the dark, do you?
NEELIX: Well, no, but I'll never be able to fall asleep.
EMH: That's not my problem, is it?
NEELIX: I've got a very, very busy day tomorrow and my next shift is just four hours away.
EMH: Perhaps you should have thought of that when choosing your accommodations.
NEELIX: Well, if we can't sleep, I guess we'll just have to find some other way to pass the time. How about a sing-along? I could teach you all some Talaxian rondos and I know a Vulcan funeral dirge, not to mention the classics of Klingon opera.
EMH: Very well, Mister Neelix. You win. Pleasant dreams.
NEELIX: Computer, lights off.

[Planet surface]
CHAKOTAY: You're a little jumpy, aren't you?
SEVEN: I thought I heard something.
CHAKOTAY: Now you know why they call it Demon Class.
SEVEN: Demon implies a presence. This planetoid is unoccupied.
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking up the shuttlecraft.

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: Nobody home.
SEVEN: It's unlikely their environmental suits were able to survive the elements for this long.
CHAKOTAY: I hope you're wrong.

[Planet surface]
CHAKOTAY: Looks like they went this way.
SEVEN: My tricorder isn't picking up any lifesigns. How did you reach that conclusion?
CHAKOTAY: Footprints. I guess you never assimilated any Indian scouts.

[Cavern]
SEVEN: High concentrations of deuterium coming from this fluid. I'll collect a sample.
CHAKOTAY: Let's find Tom and Harry first. We'll collect the deuterium later
SEVEN: As you wish.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe they found some shelter inside.
SEVEN: Commander!
PARIS: Good to see you guys. Welcome to the Demon planet. Our suits were corroding, our lungs were burning. We were suffocating. You know what they say about your life passing before your eyes? Well, it's true. I was finally getting past puberty when suddenly, I lost consciousness. I don't know how long I was out but, the next thing I knew, I was awake and I was breathing normally. And I looked over at Harry. He was breathing normally too, with his helmet off. And, and we just looked at each other, and we just started laughing. I know it sounds crazy, but it was an exhilarating experience.
SEVEN: His vital signs are normal. Apparently he has adapted.
CHAKOTAY: Just the same, we'd better let the Doctor take a look at you. Chakotay to Voyager.
PARIS: I've already tried that. The comm. signal can't get out of the caves.
CHAKOTAY: Then we'll call again when we get back outside.
PARIS: I'm telling you, Chakotay. It was an amazing experience. It, it's like when you're a kid who's afraid of the water and you suddenly realize that you can swim. Go ahead, take your helmets off. Try it.
CHAKOTAY: I'm glad you're feeling all right, but none of us should be taking any risks until we know exactly what's going on.
PARIS: Don't tell me that a big, tough guy like you is afraid of a little poisoned atmosphere?
CHAKOTAY: Where's Harry?
PARIS: He's further inside the cave. We found a huge cache of deuterium.
CHAKOTAY: Let's find him and get you two back to the ship.
PARIS: Whatever you say, boss, but I'm telling you. We could breathe this air forever.

[Engineering]
VORIK: Lieutenant.
TORRES: Yes?
VORIK: We should have transporters back online within the hour.
TORRES: Well, that's great. But right now I'm more concerned with little things like, oh, I don't know, say, life support?
VORIK: Indeed. According to my calculations, environmental systems will cease to function in two hours.
TORRES: You say that like you're giving me the weather report.
VORIK: I agree the situation is dire, but losing our cool will not help matters.
TORRES: Losing our cool? Where did you pick up that expression?
VORIK: Mister Paris.
TORRES: Well, there's hope for you yet. Now, how about giving me a hand.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Harry.
KIM: Commander. Isn't it incredible?
PARIS: That's what I've been trying to tell them.
CHAKOTAY: Are you feeling okay, Harry?
KIM: Never better. If we could get mobile transporters down here, we could mine enough deuterium to get us all the way to the Alpha Quadrant and back again.
CHAKOTAY: Tom tells me you've already picked up twenty kilos. That should be enough to get the main systems back online. Let's get back to the ship. Have the Doctor take a look at you.
KIM: I'd rather stay here and keep working, if it's all the same to you.
CHAKOTAY: It's not.
KIM: Really, Commander, I'm fine. You should send some more personnel out to help. They won't even need environmental suits.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your enthusiasm, but we're going back to Voyager. Now.
PARIS: It's all right, Harry. Once the Doc takes a look at us and sees we're fine, we'll get right back to work.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Status, Mister Tuvok?
TUVOK: I've shut down life support everywhere but decks one and five. It should provide us with an extra hour of breathable air.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Voyager.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We've found Tom and Harry.
JANEWAY: First good news I've had all day. What about the deuterium?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We've got

[Planet surface]
CHAKOTAY: A few kilos. We're on our way back to Voyager now.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What's your position?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): About two kilometers from the ship.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: Transporters are coming back online. We should be able to beam you back from that distance, but it may take a few minutes.

[Planet surface]
CHAKOTAY: Have the Doctor standing by. I think he's going to want to look at Tom and Harry.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Computer, lights. Maximum illumination. Everybody up! Rise and shine, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: What's going on?
EMH: It's checkout time.
NEELIX: It's the middle of the night.
EMH: Medicine knows no time clock. I've got patients on the way and there's no more room at the inn.
NEELIX: Patients. Is somebody sick?
EMH: I can't answer that until I've examined them, now can I?
NEELIX: Examine who?
EMH: Ensign Kim and Lieutenant Paris.
NEELIX: Is there anything I can do to help?
EMH: Yes. You and your friends can vacate the premises.
NEELIX: Right, move! You heard the Doctor. This is an emergency evacuation. Move! Move! Move! Doctor.
EMH: Yes?
NEELIX: Thanks for your hospitality. And if you ever need a place to stay, my door's always open.

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: Energizing. #
JANEWAY: Beam Tom and Harry to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: What happened to them?
CHAKOTAY: As soon as we beamed aboard they started suffocating.
EMH: Computer, erect a level seven forcefield around biobeds one and two.
COMPUTER: Forcefield established.
JANEWAY: What are you doing?
EMH: Filling the area inside the forcefield with the atmospheric gasses from the planet. Try to breathe normally now. Easy, or you'll hyperventilate. Slowly. In and out. In and out.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The Doctor continues to investigate Tom and Harry, whose condition seems as serious as it is strange.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: That stuff is in our blood?
EMH: I'm afraid so. From what I can tell, you've been bioformed.
KIM: Bioformed?
EMH: Think of it as the opposite of terraforming. In the same way we adapt the environment of a planet to suit our needs, this planet has adapted you.
PARIS: How is that possible?
EMH: This fluid somehow entered your bloodstream and began altering your physiology at the cellular level. I haven't had the time to analyze this substance, but I hope to have answers soon.
JANEWAY: I'd like to run a few tests of my own, if you don't mind.
EMH: Of course.
PARIS: So, what's our prognosis, Doc?
EMH: Well, you'll be fine. As long as you keep breathing the planet's gasses.
KIM: You mean we have to stay inside this forcefield?
EMH: I'm afraid it's worse than that. The atmosphere of this planet can't be replicated safely.
PARIS: Which means if we leave, we'll have nothing to breathe.
EMH: Exactly. Either we find a way to treat your condition, or you'll have to be left behind.
JANEWAY: Can the bioforming process be reversed?
EMH: As it stands, I don't know enough about the phenomenon to undo it.
JANEWAY: I'll send Chakotay and Seven back to the surface. They'll gather as much information as they can. B'Elanna and I will start running tests on this.
KIM: Let me go with the away team, Captain. I know the terrain. I can help.
JANEWAY: Doctor?
EMH: Right now they're better off out there than they are in here. But one of you will have to remain so I can monitor your condition.
KIM: No problem. I volunteer Tom to stay here and play guinea pig.

[Planet surface]
SEVEN: Each square kilometer of this planetoid is less appealing than the last.
KIM: I think it's breathtaking.
SEVEN: Breathtaking?
KIM: Yes.
SEVEN: Perhaps your recent experience has impaired your perceptions.
KIM: No, I don't think so. I wasn't really seeing it before.
CHAKOTAY: Seeing what?
KIM: The beauty.
SEVEN: Would you care to point out an example?
KIM: Look over there. What do you see?
SEVEN: I see monochromatic geological formations, dust, haze.
CHAKOTAY: What do you see, Harry?
KIM: To me, those geological formations are a dozen shades of red and gold. That dust, it's glowing. And the haze, it seems to intensify the colors. I'm sorry. I know it's weird, but I feel connected to this place.
CHAKOTAY: Connected how?
SEVEN: I'm picking up humanoid lifesigns.
CHAKOTAY: Location?
SEVEN: One hundred meters this way.

[Science lab]
JANEWAY: Magnify. Factor ten. Deuterium, hydrogen sulfate, dichromates.
TORRES: Add a little sodium chloride and it would probably taste a lot like Neelix's soup.
JANEWAY: We should be so lucky. Oh, what's this? Magnify. Factor twenty.
TORRES: Captain? That's a protein molecule.
JANEWAY: This fluid has organic properties. Let me see the sample that's been treated with the reagents.
TORRES: Captain.
JANEWAY: Let's get you to sickbay.
TORRES: Wait. That might not be necessary.

[Cavern]
KIM: Commander!

[Science lab]
JANEWAY: Janeway to bridge. Report.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: A large pool of the metallic compound is forming beneath the ship. We are sinking, Captain.

[Science lab]
JANEWAY: On my way. Get down to Engineering. Get thrusters online. We're getting off this planet.

[Cavern]
KIM: I'm not sure how, but they're still alive.
SEVEN: Just barely.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK (voiceover): The Captain has ordered an emergency ascent.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: We must bring you back to the ship.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Understood. I've got five to beam back.
TUVOK: Five?

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: We found another Paris and Kim.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I can't explain it.
JANEWAY: I think I can. Prepare for transport.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Beam us directly to Sickbay.
KIM: No. I don't want to go back.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Transporters are still acting up. We can't get individual locks. We're going to have to grab you in a wide beam and bring you in as a group.

[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
KIM: I belong here.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe so. But until we know what's going on, you've got to come back with us to the ship. Harry, no!

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Four of the away team are in Sickbay, Captain. I'm trying to get a lock on the fifth. It is Ensign Kim or rather, one of the Ensigns Kim. The ship is continuing to sink.
JANEWAY: Then there's no time. We've got to get back into orbit. We'll worry about Harry or whoever he is once we're up. Bring antigrav thrusters online.
TUVOK: Thrusters enabled.
JANEWAY: Inertial dampers to flight configuration.
TUVOK: Dampers reconfigured. All stations report ready.
JANEWAY: Initiating ascent. I need power to the thrusters.
TUVOK: We are being restrained by an electromagnetic force.
JANEWAY: Compensate.
TUVOK: No effect. Decks fourteen and fifteen are submerged. The ship is continuing to sink.
JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: Thrusters are offline due to an overload. Decks thirteen through fifteen are submerged. If we don't lift off soon, the hull will begin to corrode.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering.

[Engineering]
VORIK: Ensign Vorik here.
JANEWAY (voiceover): I need thrusters back online.
VORIK: Lieutenant Torres has already sent a team to the thruster control junction.
JANEWAY (voiceover): How long?
VORIK: At least a half an hour.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Even if thrusters are repaired, they won't be of much use if we sink any deeper.
JANEWAY: There must be some way to disperse it. Try a nadion burst from the phaser emitters. It may weaken the electromagnetic properties of the fluid.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way to Sickbay to check on Harry and Tom. You've got the bridge.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: How are they?
EMH: Lucky. The backup systems in their environmental suits kept their vital functions going. It'll take time, but they'll recover.
JANEWAY: And him?
EMH: Aside from his ability to breathe the rarified air on this planet, he's the exact duplicate of Mister Paris. He even seems to share his memories, not to mention his winning personality.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna and I discovered that the fluid has mimetic properties. Somehow, it reads the DNA of whatever it comes in contact with and re-creates it.
EMH: Fascinating.
JANEWAY: Can you tell me who you are?
DEMON PARIS: Please, just let me go back.
JANEWAY: Not until I find out why two of my crew have been duplicated.
DEMON PARIS: Captain, you have to believe me. I don't know any more than you do about this. Until he showed up, I thought I was Tom Paris. A little changed by my experience on the planet maybe, but now I don't know who or what I am. All I know is that I have to get off this ship and go back down to the surface.
TUVOK (voiceover): We're ready to try the nadion burst, Captain.
JANEWAY: Do it.
DEMON PARIS: Ow. What are you doing?
TUVOK (voiceover): Captain, we're receiving an urgent hail. It's from Ensign Kim. The one on the surface.
JANEWAY: Put him through.
DEMON KIM (voiceover): Captain, please. Stop what you're doing.
JANEWAY: If you really do have Harry Kim's memories, you know that I'm going to do whatever it takes to get this ship back in orbit.

[Planet surface]
DEMON KIM: You can't do that!
JANEWAY (voiceover): Why not?
DEMON KIM: I, I'm not sure I understand it myself.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Well then, you're going to have to help me figure it out. Mister Tuvok, I'm on my way to transporter room one. Erect a level seven forcefield around the platform. Fill it with atmosphere from the planet and then beam Mister Kim, or rather his duplicate, aboard.
TUVOK (voiceover): Aye, Captain.

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: Do you have a lock on him?
TRANSPORTER TECHNICIAN: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Energize.
JANEWAY: Release my vessel.
DEMON KIM: We can't do that.
JANEWAY: We?
DEMON KIM: The planet and I, we're connected somehow. I can't explain it, Captain. I only know that you've got to stop.
JANEWAY: And I'm willing to stop. But I'll say it again, release the ship.
DEMON KIM: No. We need you.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok. Fire.
JANEWAY: What are you?
DEMON KIM: Stop. No.
JANEWAY: I'll fire again.
DEMON KIM: You're killing us!
JANEWAY: You leave me no choice.
DEMON KIM: It's not fair. It's wrong!
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok.
DEMON KIM: No! No, no, no. Please. No more.
JANEWAY: Hold your fire, Tuvok.
TUVOK (voiceover): Captain, we are continuing to submerge.
JANEWAY: Hold your fire.
TUVOK (voiceover): Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: I want some answers.
DEMON KIM: I'm trying to understand. This is hard for me as well.
JANEWAY: You said you have a connection to this planet. You talk about it like it's alive.
DEMON KIM: Alive. Yes, but not the planet. The silver blood.
JANEWAY: The compound that sampled Harry's DNA, and created you.
DEMON KIM: Yes. but it's never been conscious, never sentient before now. Before me and the other.
JANEWAY: Tom Paris.
DEMON KIM: We're the first. Don't you see? You came here. You showed us. When the compound came in contact with Tom and Harry, it experienced awareness for the first time. Before, it was only instinct, sound and light and heat. But those two showed us thought.
JANEWAY: I'm beginning to understand. This silver blood experienced sentience, and now you want more. You want to duplicate the rest of this crew and populate this planet.
DEMON KIM: You're trying so hard to reach home, but this can be home.
JANEWAY: Not for me, and not for my people. Do you understand why we can't stay here?
DEMON KIM: I think so.
JANEWAY: Well then, release us.
DEMON KIM: We'd rather die than be alone. We deserve life.
JANEWAY: This silver blood that created you. It duplicated Harry without killing him. So you don't need our bodies, only samples of DNA. Release Voyager and I'll speak to my crew. And if they're willing, I'll let you duplicate the rest of us.
TUVOK (voiceover): Bridge to Janeway. We've stopped, Captain. We're no longer submerging.
JANEWAY: Understood. We're getting out of here, Tuvok, but first assemble the crew in Cargo Bay one

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): And have the Doctor meet me there.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY (voiceover): I'll explain later.

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: It's time to meet your new family.

[Bridge]
KIM: All stations report ready for lift off.
TUVOK: Code blue status confirmed.
JANEWAY: Take us up, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.

[Mess hall]
SEVEN: Lieutenant, Ensign.
KIM: Hey, Seven.
TORRES: Have some dinner. The potato salad isn't half bad.
SEVEN: I do not require nutrition at this time. I would like to talk with you.
KIM: Okay.
SEVEN: Ensign Kim, what is your place of origin?
KIM: You mean, where am I from? Well, I was born in South Carolina, but I grew up in
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres, explain why you became a member of the Maquis.
TORRES: It was through Chakotay. I met him. Well, actually, he saved my life
SEVEN: List the sports you play.
KIM: I've dabbled in quite a few. Tennis, Pareses Squares, but my favorite is volleyball.
SEVEN: Specify the foods you find enjoyable.
TORRES: Seven, what is this?
SEVEN: Describe the nature of your sexual relationship with Lieutenant Paris.
TORRES: Okay, that's it.
EMH: Computer, freeze program. Would you care to explain what you're doing?
SEVEN: I'm doing exactly what you instructed me to do.
EMH: I hardly think so. I created this program to help you become more comfortable in social situations, not to practice alienating people.
SEVEN: You made recommendations about how to carry on a conversation.
EMH: That's true.
SEVEN: You said it's helpful if people feel you're interested in them.
EMH: Correct.
SEVEN: And that drawing them out by asking them about themselves is one way to demonstrate that interest.
EMH: That doesn't mean subjecting them to an interrogation. You have to let them answer, listen to what they're saying. Ask another question on the same subject. Take your time. Shall we try again?
SEVEN: I believe I am overdue for my weekly medical maintenance. We should go.
EMH: Seven, you've never volunteered for a check-up before.
SEVEN: It is preferable to remaining here.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What have we got here?
KIM: Looks like a Mutara class nebula with a few trace constituents that aren't in our database, but they're showing up in minute quantities.
TUVOK: The nebula is vast, Captain. It extends beyond the reach of our sensors.
JANEWAY: Oh, then I guess we won't try to go around it. Tom, take us in at one half impulse.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
KIM: I'm detecting a slight radioactive field. It's oh, oh.
JANEWAY: Harry?
KIM: Nothing. It's just a headache coming on.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you should go to Sickbay.
KIM: Yeah, maybe so.
PARIS: Captain!
KIM: Oh, god.
JANEWAY: Tom, turn us around. Get us out of here.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Sickbay.
EMH (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: We need help.
EMH (voiceover): What happened?

[Sickbay]
EMH: I'm being inundated with calls.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Hurry.
EMH: Seven, go to the bridge. Use the dermal regenerator to treat the burns.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Course laid in.
KIM: We've cleared the nebula.
JANEWAY: All stop.
SEVEN: He's dead.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: The nebula extends for at least one hundred ten light years. Possibly more.
JANEWAY: At the least, it would take us well over a month to get through it, and more than a year to get around it.
SEVEN: The crew was unable to tolerate the nebula for even a few minutes. They certainly could not survive a month.
JANEWAY: We've come fifteen thousand light years. We haven't been stopped by temporal anomalies, warp core breaches, or hostile aliens. And I am damned if I'm going to be stopped by a nebula. I'll be in Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've analyzed a sample of the gasses from the nebula. I think the damage came from subnucleonic radiation. Even the briefest exposure is devastating to organic tissue.
JANEWAY: Can you give us any protection against the effects?
EMH: Yes. Stasis chambers. Independent life support for each unit.
JANEWAY: Are you suggesting that the entire crew be put in suspended animation?
EMH: Yes. I, of course, would stay online in order to monitor everyone.
JANEWAY: This is a drastic step, Doctor. Are there any other options? Adjusting the shields? Inoculations?
EMH: I assure you, I've considered all possibilities. This is the only way.
JANEWAY: There's more to getting through the nebula than monitoring the crew. Who would regulate ship's systems? Make course adjustments?
EMH: I think I've demonstrated that I have a command of the rudimentary aspects of piloting.
JANEWAY: Of course you have, and I know you could do it. But you'll need back-up. We have no idea what effect the nebular radiation might have on your holomatrix. What if you went offline?
EMH: There was only one crewmember besides myself that seemed unaffected by the nebula.

[Cargo Bay two]
JANEWAY: I want you to understand the seriousness of this responsibility. The lives of the entire crew will be on your shoulders.
SEVEN: You doubt my ability to fulfill this task?
JANEWAY: Ordinarily not at all, but this is an unusual situation. After being in the Collective, it wasn't easy for you to adjust to a ship with only a hundred and fifty people on it, was it, Seven? How would you feel with only the Doctor for company?
SEVEN: I will adapt.
JANEWAY: Most humans don't react particularly well to long periods of isolation. Borg Drones have even more difficulty.
SEVEN: As you pointed out, I am neither Borg nor human. I can do this, Captain.
JANEWAY: All right. I'll work with the senior staff to draw up a list of duties. But let me make it clear. The Doctor will be in command. You will follow his instructions just as you would follow mine.
SEVEN: Follow the orders of a hologram?
JANEWAY: He's our Chief Medical Officer, and he is thoroughly grounded in Starfleet protocols. You will report to him.
SEVEN: I understand.

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: The Doctor's preparing the stasis units now. They should be ready by seventeen hundred hours.
PARIS: And how long will this be for?
JANEWAY: We don't know for certain. At least a month. Maybe longer, if the nebula is larger than we estimate.
TORRES: I've never been in long term stasis. Are there any side effects?
JANEWAY: The Doctor assures me it'll be just like taking a nap. We'll go into the units, our cardiopulmonary systems will be slowed, neural activity suspended, and we'll wake up feeling as though we'd had a good night's sleep.
KIM: There are things that can go wrong. At least, that's what I've read.
JANEWAY: We will be carefully monitored by Seven and the Doctor, who will check our vital signs four times a day, and take care of any other problems.
PARIS: I assume that we've explored all the alternatives?
JANEWAY: I think we're all feeling uneasy about this, and I'd be lying if I said I don't have concerns myself. And I think it's about loss of control. We always feel better if we think we're in charge of our own circumstances. In stasis, we're giving up that control, and no Starfleet officer likes to do that. But crews have been in stasis much longer than a month. I think we can handle this. All right. You're free until seventeen hundred hours. I'll make a ship-wide announcement when the Doctor's ready. Dismissed.
JANEWAY: Something else?
CHAKOTAY: I want you to tell me that this isn't a mistake.
JANEWAY: Your turn to get reassurance?
CHAKOTAY: Maybe. But my concern isn't about going into stasis. It's about who you're leaving in charge.
JANEWAY: You're worried about Seven.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you need to step outside yourself for a minute. Look at the fact that here's someone who's butted horns with you from the moment she came on board. Who disregards authority and actively disobeys orders when she doesn't agree with them.
JANEWAY: And this is the person I'm giving responsibility for the lives of this entire crew. I suppose you want me to tell you I'm not crazy?
CHAKOTAY: In a nutshell. I know your bond with Seven is unique, different from everyone else's. From the beginning, you've seen things in her that no one else could. But maybe you could help me understand some of those things.
JANEWAY: I don't know if I can. It's just instinct. There's something inside me that says she can be redeemed. In spite of her insolent attitude, I honestly believe she wants to do well by us.
CHAKOTAY: That's good enough for me.
JANEWAY: See you at seventeen hundred hours.

[Deck fourteen]
PARIS: If I have to take a nap for a month, I really would rather do it in my quarters.
EMH: Everyone's being relocated here to deck fourteen so we can monitor you more easily. Hop in.
KIM: Come on, Tom. Sleepy time.
PARIS: What if we had to get out in a hurry?
JANEWAY: You can unlock the unit from inside, Tom.
EMH: Do I detect a hint of claustrophobia, Lieutenant.
PARIS: Why do they have to design these things like coffins?
KIM: Should we replicate you a teddy bear?
EMH: Sleep tight.
EMH: Have no worries, Captain. You'll go to sleep and the next thing you know I'll be standing over you, telling you we're through the nebula.
JANEWAY: I'm leaving the ship in good hands. I have every confidence in both of you. See you in a month.
EMH: It's just the two of us now. Personal log, Seven of Nine, stardate 51929.3. This is the tenth day of our journey through the Mutara nebula. I have created an efficient daily routine.

[Mess ball]
SEVEN: Nutritional supplement fourteen beta seven.

[Bridge]
SEVEN: Computer, adjust heading by point three four seven degrees starboard.
COMPUTER: Course adjusted.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to the Doctor.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Go ahead.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: Lieutenant Paris has left his stasis unit and is unconscious.
EMH (voiceover): I'll be right there.

[Deck Fourteen]
EMH: Apparently he's more claustrophobic than I thought. But he doesn't seem to have suffered any ill effects.
SEVEN: Is this likely to happen again?
EMH: It's not unheard of for people to come out of stasis and start wandering. Leave it to Mister Paris to be just as much trouble now as when he's awake.
SEVEN: You knew this might happen. Why complain about it?
EMH: If you had even the slightest sense of humor, you'd realize I was making a small joke.
SEVEN: Very small.
EMH: Give me his vital signs, please.
SEVEN: Pulse, forty two. Body temperature, ninety seven point six. Blood pressure one hundred over fifty.
EMH: Good.
SEVEN: I will continue on my rounds.
EMH: I think not. We're paying a visit to the holodeck.
SEVEN: I have no time for frivolous pursuits.
EMH: This isn't frivolous. It's essential. You've been getting more irritable and short-tempered with each passing day.
SEVEN: So have you.
EMH: Only because I'm having to put up with you. I think you need a little brush-up course in getting along with people.
SEVEN: There is no one here to get along with.
EMH: I'm here. This isn't a suggestion and it's not a request. It's an order.

[Holodeck - Mess hall]
NEELIX: Try one, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, Neelix.
NEELIX: Captain?
JANEWAY: Ooo, what have we here? Delicious!
NEELIX: Join the party, Seven. It's no fun to stand there by yourself.
SEVEN: I have no desire to have fun.
NEELIX: No?
SEVEN: I am attempting to recalibrate the warp field in order to resist the nebula's radiation. I understand you have some knowledge of warp field theory. Perhaps you could assist me.
NEELIX: I'd be happy to give it a try. Let's see, the subspace field matrix looks right.
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: Excuse me.
SEVEN: Perhaps you could help as well. We're attempting to find a stronger warp field calibration.
JANEWAY: How interesting. Maybe if we vary the EM stress parameters, the warp field dynamic would increase.
NEELIX: Excellent idea, Captain. And if the warp coils were re-phased, it would increase power to the nacelles.
SEVEN: There is an additional problem. We must compensate for a subspace induction drag on the engines.
EMH: Pardon me, Captain, Mister Neelix. Computer, freeze program. You're completely missing the point of this exercise. You're supposed to be mixing and mingling, not working on engineering problems.
SEVEN: You ordered me to participate in this program. You did not specify topics of conversation.
EMH: You're splitting hairs. You know very well what purpose this program is supposed to serve.
SEVEN: I find that it serves no purpose whatsoever.
EMH: Because you're being intentionally perverse.
SEVEN: Holodecks are a pointless endeavor, fulfilling some human need to fantasize. I have no such need.
EMH: What you need is some editorial skill in your self-expression. Between impulse and action there is a realm of good taste begging for your acquaintance.
SEVEN: I find your self-expression ponderous.
EMH: And I can't put up with this for another month.
SEVEN: We can arrange to avoid one another.
EMH: I wish it were that simple. Unfortunately, you have to report to me four times a day to keep me informed about the crew.
SEVEN: We can minimize those reports.
COMPUTER: Warning. Emergency procedures in effect.
EMH: Computer, what is the nature of the emergency?
COMPUTER: The antimatter storage tanks are failing.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: A cascade effect is in progress. The warp field coils are compromised, primary deuterium tank is rupturing, and plasma conduits are ready to breach.
EMH: This is awful.
SEVEN: We have to eject the antimatter tanks.
EMH: We've got to coordinate the effort. You go to Engineering, I'll go to the bridge.

[Bridge]
EMH: Doctor to Seven.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: Yes, Doctor?
EMH (voiceover): It's worse than we thought.

[Bridge]
EMH: Engineering is flooded with plasma. You'll never get in.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: I believe I can survive long enough to eject the assembly.
EMH (voiceover): It's too late.

[Bridge]
EMH: Sensors show plasma conduits rupturing on decks seven and thirteen.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: I can do it.

[Bridge]
EMH: Seven. There's been another plasma discharge in Engineering. The hull is breaching. Get out!

[Engineering]
EMH (voiceover): Seven, do you hear me?
SEVEN: It's all right, Doctor. False alarm.
EMH: Look here. I think I've found the problem. There are malfunctions in a number of neural gel packs. As a result, false readings were fed to the sensors which detected an emergency when there was none.
SEVEN: We must repair them.
EMH: They seem to be in sequence six theta nine. We'll need replacement packs and a repair
EMH: Repair kit.

[Jefferies Tube]
EMH: These tubes certainly weren't designed with creature comfort in mind. It seems to me the shipbuilders should've created a space in which one can walk upright.
SEVEN: But they did not. It doesn't help to complain about it now.
EMH: I'll complain if I want to. It's comforting.
SEVEN: We can access sequence six theta nine from this junction.
EMH: Odd. I've never seen this kind of neural activity in the gel packs.
SEVEN: In what sense?
EMH: The neurodes are discharging in random bursts. I would imagine the nebula activity is causing it. I'll this back to Sickbay for further study.
SEVEN: I will reroute the command processors to bypass this series.
EMH: This journey certainly hasn't lacked excitement. I can't complain about being bored.
SEVEN: Since you find it comforting, you'll undoubtedly find something else to complain about.
EMH: No doubt. You really should try it.
SEVEN: What's happening?
EMH: My program is degrading.
SEVEN: The mobile emitter?
EMH: I don't know. I have to get back to Sickbay. Hurry.
SEVEN: I am hurrying.
EMH: If the mobile emitter goes offline while I'm out of Sickbay, my program may be irretrievable.
SEVEN: Don't panic. It's counterproductive.
EMH: That's easy for you to say. You're not facing cybernetic oblivion.
SEVEN: Doctor?
EMH: If that happens again, I'm a goner.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Ah! Home sweet Sickbay. I never thought I'd be so glad to see these walls.
SEVEN: Give me the emitter. The electro-optic modulator is damaged.
EMH: You're right, it's worthless. There's no way I can risk using it now. I'm stuck here.
SEVEN: The nebula is having a deleterious effect on all the ship's technology.
EMH: And we still have weeks to go. It's up to you to keep the ship running. We can't afford to break down in this nebula.
SEVEN: I won't disappoint you.

[Cargo Bay two]
COMPUTER: Oh six hundred hours. Regeneration sequence complete.
SEVEN: Personal log, Seven of Nine, stardate 51932.4. The twenty ninth day in the Mutara nebula. I believe I'm beginning to feel the effects of this prolonged isolation. My dreams have been disturbing. But I'm determined to fulfill my responsibilities. With the Doctor confined to Sickbay, I have taken on increasing duties. Ship's systems are beginning to require constant maintenance in order to avert disaster. This morning I must purge the auxiliary plasma vents. End log.

[Bridge]
SEVEN: Computer, trim heading by point three one degrees port. Computer, respond. Computer, trim heading by point three one degrees port.
COMPUTER: Attempting to make correction. Stand by. Attempting to make correction. Unable to comply.
SEVEN: Manual override. Computer, initiate a level four diagnostic of your command processors.
COMPUTER: Diagnostic in progress.

[Turbolift]
SEVEN: Astrometrics.
COMPUTER: Diagnostic complete.
SEVEN: Analyze.
COMPUTER: Quantum failures are present in thirty three percent of gel pack relays.
SEVEN: Reroute all functional relays through subprocessor chi one four.
COMPUTER: Rerouting complete. Relay failures bypassed.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Display Voyager's current position within the nebula. How long to complete passage through the nebula?
COMPUTER: Six days, five hours.
SEVEN: Six days.

[Corridor]
PARIS (voiceover): Seven. Help.

[Deck Fourteen]
COMPUTER: Proximity alert. Vessel approaching. The vessel is hailing.
SEVEN: Open a channel.

[Corridor]
COMPUTER: Channel open.
SEVEN: This is the Federation starship Voyager. State your identity.
TRAJIS (voiceover): I'm Trajis Lo-Tarik. I'm in need of a microfusion chamber. Would you consider a trade?
SEVEN: Why are you in this nebula?
TRAJIS (voiceover): Trying to get through it, as I imagine you are.
SEVEN: Do you have liquid helium?
TRAJIS (voiceover): You're fortunate. I have an ample supply.
SEVEN: I'll beam you directly to our Cargo Bay.

[Cargo Bay]
TRAJIS: Seven of Nine. That's an unusual name. How did you get it?
SEVEN: It was my Borg designation.
TRAJIS: Borg? Never heard of them. Are you alone on this ship?
SEVEN: No. The entire crew is here in stasis, and our Doctor is in Sickbay.
TRAJIS: I'm both pilot and crew on my ship. Fortunately, I happen to be resistant to the effects of the nebula.
SEVEN: What about your technology? The radiation is causing damage to ours.
TRAJIS: I've had to rebuild my engines twice already. If you've been in the nebula for three weeks, you're doing well.
SEVEN: I am hopeful our propulsion system will remain operational for the next six days.
TRAJIS: I'll admit I was surprised to find another ship headed toward me. No one has ever managed to cross the nebula.
SEVEN: If it weren't necessary, we wouldn't be attempting it.
TRAJIS: I'm here by choice. I'm determined to be the first to get through. I've tried five times before and failed, but this time I'm sure I'll make it. I want to see what's on the other side.
SEVEN: It is nothing remarkable.
TRAJIS: But I'll be the first of my kind to see it. Tell me, how are you handling the loneliness?
SEVEN: What do you mean?
TRAJIS: You know what I mean. No matter what you say, you're all alone here.
SEVEN: The microfusion chamber you requested.
TRAJIS: I've heard that drones can't stand being alone. They're too used to the Collective.
SEVEN: How could you know that?
TRAJIS: It's true, isn't it?
SEVEN: You said you'd never heard of the Borg.
TRAJIS: Don't be offended. I've got no grudge with them.
SEVEN: You have what you asked for. Now leave.
TRAJIS: I thought we could keep each other company for a while. Maybe have something to eat.
SEVEN: No.
TRAJIS: And if I want to stay longer?
SEVEN: You will not be accommodated.

[Corridor]
TRAJIS: There's no need for this, you know. I mean you no harm. I think maybe you're a little paranoid. That's what loneliness can do to you. You'd be a lot better off to spend some time with me. We could get to know each other.
SEVEN: Quiet.
PARIS (voiceover): Seven, help me, Seven.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to the Doctor. We have an intruder on board.

[Sickbay]
EMH: He must have a cloaking device. Sensors show no alien lifesigns and no evidence of a ship. I've been working on my mobile emitter. I think I'm making progress, but I still can't leave Sickbay. You'll have to try to track him down. Arm yourself and use extreme caution.
COMPUTER: Warning. Deuterium tank levels are fluctuating beyond acceptable tolerances.
EMH: The computer sounds like it needs a stimulant.
SEVEN: It has been experiencing relay failures. I have not been performing my maintenance duties.
EMH: Do what you have to, but keep an eye out for the alien. We have to assume he's up to no good. Seven? Are you frightened?
SEVEN: I am Borg.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: Who's there?
PARIS (voiceover): Seven. Help me, Seven.
NEELIX (voiceover): I'm dying, Seven. Don't let me die.
JANEWAY (voiceover): The lives of the crew are on your shoulders.
PARIS (voiceover): Seven, help me.
KIM (voiceover): Help, Seven, I need help.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We need you, Seven.
TUVOK (voiceover): Assist us.
NEELIX (voiceover): I'm dying, Seven.
TRAJIS (voiceover): Seven of Nine. that's an unusual name. How did you get it? Don't want to answer me? That's all right, I don't mind. I know you're not yourself today. But you might be interested in what I'm doing now. I know your sensors can't detect me. So if you want to know where I am, you'll have to ask. Playing stubborn? That's a mistake. It could lead to an unfortunate accident. Just to prove I'm willing to give you a fair chance, I'll ask you. What would happen if the structural integrity around the warp coils collapsed? You wouldn't have much time to keep them from rupturing.

[Engineering]
TRAJIS (voiceover): I couldn't bring myself to destroy your ship. I hope you're not afraid of the dark.
SEVEN: Where are you?
TRAJIS (voiceover): Finally. I'm glad you're responding. It's going to be much more interesting if we play this game together.
SEVEN: Your location.
TRAJIS (voiceover): A long way from you. On the bridge. Command center of your ship, I believe. I can do just about anything from here.
PARIS (voiceover): Seven, help.

[Engineering upper level]
SEVEN: Seven to Trajis. Are you still there?
TRAJIS (voiceover): Of course. Do you think I'd leave now?
SEVEN: I'm enjoying this game. What's next?
TRAJIS (voiceover): That's better. Well, let's just imagine that one of the photon torpedoes was activated but not ejected.
SEVEN: I would have to get to the torpedo bay quickly.
TRAJIS (voiceover): Even then you might be too late. But of course you have to try.
SEVEN: Let's play another game. Let's imagine that the oxygen on the bridge has been depleted.
TRAJIS (voiceover): What?
SEVEN: What do you suppose the results might be? Computer, seal the bridge with a level three forcefield.
COMPUTER: Bridge sealed.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to the Doctor.

[Corridor]
EMH: I'm here.
SEVEN: I have incapacitated the alien. He will not trouble us again.
EMH: Good work. I have my mobile emitter back online.

[Engineering]
EMH (voiceover): Where are you now?
SEVEN: In Engineering.
EMH (voiceover): I'll be right there. I have interesting news about the neural gel packs.
SEVEN: Acknowledged.
TRAJIS: In your heart you knew you'd see me again.
TRAJIS: You can't defeat me. You're too weak.
SEVEN: Don't come any closer.
TRAJIS: You couldn't stand being alone, could you? You felt vulnerable, afraid. Because you know what you are.
SEVEN: Stop.
TRAJIS: At first you thought you could become human, but now you know that's impossible, don't you? You're Borg. That's what you were meant to be.
TRAJIS: One of many. But your days of power are gone. You're alone now. Weak. Pathetic.
SEVEN: Don't come any closer or I'll kill you.
EMH: Seven?
SEVEN: Be careful, Doctor, he's dangerous.
EMH: Who are you talking to?
SEVEN: Where did he go?
EMH: There's no one else here.
SEVEN: He was. He was right here.
EMH: Seven, you're hallucinating.
SEVEN: No. I saw him.
EMH: There was no one else in this room.
SEVEN: You mean I imagined him?
EMH: Yes.
SEVEN: I heard Lieutenant Paris call for help. I saw him and the others. Did I imagine them as well?
EMH: I believe so. When I studied the gel pack, I discovered the radiation was producing a degradation in the synaptic relays. I'm guessing there's been a similar effect on your Borg implants. The radiation could be altering the neurotransmitter levels in your sensory nodes. That would explain why you're hearing voices, seeing images.
SEVEN: They seemed real.
EMH: Hallucinations usually are. That's what makes them so frightening.
SEVEN: Once, when I was a drone, I was separated from the Collective for two hours. I experienced panic and apprehension. I am feeling that way now.
EMH: I'll do everything I can to help you. We'll get you to Sickbay. An antipsychotic may help, at least until I determine just what neural functions are being affected.
SEVEN: What was that?
COMPUTER: Warning. Primary EPS conduits are overloading.
EMH: I tied my mobile emitter into the EPS conduits.
SEVEN: Computer, access the EPS conduits.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
EMH: My program's going offline.
SEVEN: No.
COMPUTER: Warning. Primary EPS conduits overloading. Secondary systems are failing.
EMH: Seven, you've got to hang on. Repair the EPS conduits. Everything depends on you now.
SEVEN: I cannot function alone.
EMH: You have to. You're the way we can survive
SEVEN: No!

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Display Voyager's current position within the nebula.
KIM: It doesn't matter. You won't make it.
SEVEN: Computer, how long until Voyager is out of the nebula?
COMPUTER: Seventeen hours, eleven minutes.
KIM: That's an eternity.
SEVEN: Go away.
KIM: You can try to shut me out, but it won't work.
COMPUTER: Warning. Propulsion system failure in progress.

[Corridor]
DRONE: Seven of Nine, Tertiary Adjunct of Unimatrix Zero One. You have left the Collective. It was a foolish decision. Now you are alone. You have lost the many. You are only one. You have become human. Weak. Pathetic.
DRONE: Humans do not have our strength. They are imperfect. Now you are imperfect as well.
SEVEN: No.
DRONE: You will not survive. You cannot survive without the Collective.
SEVEN: I will adapt.
DRONE: By becoming weaker. Less perfect.
SEVEN: I will adapt as an individual.
DRONE: One. One alone. A Borg cannot be one.
SEVEN: I will become stronger.
DRONE: A Borg cannot be one. She will die as one. Weak, detached, isolated, one Borg cannot survive.
SEVEN: I am an individual. I will survive alone.
DRONE: No. You are weak. You will die alone.

[Turbolift]
TRAJIS: He's right. You're in pain, Seven. I can help you.
SEVEN: Bridge.
TRAJIS: You don't have to beg me. You don't even have to ask. All you have to do is make a choice.
SEVEN: I can survive alone.
TRAJIS: That's home. That's where you belong.
SEVEN: No.
TRAJIS: End your pain. Just walk through that door and you'll never be alone again.
SEVEN: It's not real.
BORG (voiceover): Seven of Nine. Resistance is futile.
SEVEN: Bridge.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Seven of Nine. You look a little worse for wear.
KIM: I didn't know she was still on board.
CHAKOTAY: I never wanted her here in the first place.
TUVOK: She won't be here long. She can't survive alone.
PARIS: I'm taking bets on how long she'll last.
CHAKOTAY: She'll fall apart before we leave the nebula.
KIM: And then everybody will die.
JANEWAY: Well, blame me. I put my trust in her. I should have known better.
COMPUTER: Warning. Propulsion system failure in progress.
TUVOK: What is she doing now?
CHAKOTAY: She's trying to keep the engines online.
PARIS: Place your bets. Anyone think she can do it?
KIM: I'll lay odds she can't.
SEVEN: Computer, how long until the ship is out of the nebula?
COMPUTER: Forty one minutes.
JANEWAY: Too long. She won't make it.
KIM: That's an eternity.
SEVEN: Computer, reroute available power from weapons, sensors and environmental controls to the engines.
COMPUTER: Warning. Propulsion system failure in progress.
SEVEN: Reroute all available power to the engines.
COMPUTER: Propulsion systems have failed. All engines are offline.
KIM: She's got herself a real problem now.
CHAKOTAY: I'll say. She's taken power from every available system and it's still not enough.
TUVOK: But if she fails to get this ship moving, everyone on board will die.
PARIS: What do you think she'll do?
JANEWAY: I know what she's thinking. She's thinking if she could take power from the stasis units on deck fourteen, she might be able to get those engines back online.
KIM: But that would mean sacrificing some of the crew.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think that would bother her too much.
TUVOK: What matters to Seven is efficiency. Sacrificing a few to save many, would be an efficient plan.
JANEWAY: She's already killed millions. Would a few more matter?
SEVEN: Computer, divert power from stasis units one through ten and reroute to the propulsion systems.
COMPUTER: Engines are back online.
SEVEN: Resume course.
KIM: Look at that. She did it.
JANEWAY: But those people she disconnected are going to die.
PARIS: I win. I knew she didn't care about them.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Come to watch them die?

[Deck Fourteen]
COMPUTER: Warning. Power to stasis units has failed.
SEVEN: Computer, how long to complete passage through the nebula?
COMPUTER: Eleven minutes.
JANEWAY: They won't last that long. What do you do now, Seven? It's all up to you.
SEVEN: Computer, cut life support to all decks and reroute available power to the stasis units.
JANEWAY: That will keep them alive, but what about you? No oxygen, no heat. Goodbye, Seven.
SEVEN: I am Seven of Nine. I am alone, but I will adapt. I will

[Sickbay]
EMH: She's coming to.
EMH: Not so fast. Get your bearings first.
SEVEN: The crew?
JANEWAY: We came through the nebula in fine shape, thanks to you.
CHAKOTAY: You were the one we almost lost. When the ship cleared the nebula, the Doctor came back online and found you unconscious. He reinitiated life support and woke the crew.
JANEWAY: He tells us you've had quite an adventure.
SEVEN: It was interesting.
JANEWAY: Well, when you're rested, I'd like to hear about it.
EMH: I'm proud of you, Seven. You performed admirably.
SEVEN: I am glad I was able to help.

[Mess hall]
KIM: Neelix, this soup is great. What is it?
NEELIX: It's my secret recipe. I've never told anyone what's in it.
PARIS: Why does that make me nervous?
TORRES: Oh, come on, Tom. Where's your spirit of adventure?
PARIS: Not in my stomach. Food and mystery don't go together. I like to know what I'm eating.
TORRES: Coward.
SEVEN: Lieutenants Paris and Torres. Ensign Kim.
KIM: Seven. I'm surprised to see you here.
SEVEN: May I join you?
PARIS: Sure. Have a seat.
TORRES: Have some soup. It's actually edible.
SEVEN: I don't require nourishment at this time. I felt the need for companionship.
PARIS: Well, after a month with only the Doc for company, I can understand it.
KIM: Yeah. What was that like, anyway, just the two of you?
SEVEN: The Doctor was quite helpful. I cannot fault him.
TORRES: Well, we all owe you.
PARIS: Yeah, just think, we could've died in those coffins.
SEVEN: I suspect you would've found a way out before that, Lieutenant.
KIM: What do you mean?
SEVEN: Lieutenant Paris refused to stay confined. On four separate occasions, the Doctor and I had to put him back into his stasis unit.
KIM: Were you locked in dark closets or something as a child?
PARIS: I just don't like closed places. I never have. I don't know why.
SEVEN: Perhaps you dislike being alone.

[Holodeck]
COMPUTER: Full impact. Final round to Janeway. Winner Janeway.
JANEWAY: Good game.
SEVEN: For you.
JANEWAY: Oh, come on, Seven. You won four out of ten rounds. Nothing to be ashamed of.
SEVEN: On the contrary. I have superior visual acuity and stamina. I should have won every round.
JANEWAY: Well, Velocity is more than a test of stamina. It's a game of wits.
SEVEN: You are a frustrating opponent. During the final round, after you dropped your phaser, you did not look at the disk, and yet you were able to acquire the target.
JANEWAY: Intuition.
SEVEN: Intuition is a human fallacy. The belief that you can predict random events.
JANEWAY: Oh, belief had nothing to do with it. At some level, conscious or otherwise, I was aware of several factors. The trajectory of the disk after I hit the wall, the sound it made on its return, and the shadow it cast on the hologrid.
SEVEN: Intriguing but implausible.
JANEWAY: I won, didn't I? Thanks for the match.
SEVEN: I wish to play again.
JANEWAY: Not today.
SEVEN: You are fatigued and concerned that I will defeat you.
JANEWAY: Tired? Yes. Concerned? No.
SEVEN: Computer, begin first round.
JANEWAY: Belay that command. Seven, try to be a sport. Game's over.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 51978.2. It's been five months since we received the encoded message from the Alpha Quadrant. We know that the transmission was from Starfleet Command but we still can't decrypt it. B'Elanna thinks it's a lost cause, that too much of the datastream has been destroyed. But I haven't given up. I keep hoping inspiration will strike, somehow.

[Mess hall]
CHAKOTAY: Good morning.
JANEWAY: What time is it?
CHAKOTAY: Oh five hundred.
JANEWAY: Oh. Well then, good morning.
CHAKOTAY: I just heard from Tom and Neelix. They're about to leave the trading colony.
JANEWAY: Any luck?
CHAKOTAY: According to Tom, the shuttle's so loaded down with supplies, he won't make half impulse. Neelix is asking permission to bring one of the locals on board. He's been very helpful, and Neelix wants to repay him by giving him passage to the next system.
JANEWAY: Permission granted.
CHAKOTAY: You might want to grab some sleep. We've got a big day ahead.
JANEWAY: I will in a while.
CHAKOTAY: Still hunting for buried treasure?
JANEWAY: We've found the treasure, I just can't pick the lock. I've tried over fifty decryption algorithms. Every time I piece together a datablock, ten more come unraveled. What did Starfleet send us? A map? The location of a wormhole? If I could decode this today, Chakotay, we could be home tomorrow. Then again, it could be Admiral Chapman's recipe for the perfect pound cake. I've been pinning our hopes on this message, but I'm starting to wonder.
CHAKOTAY: One way or another, we've got to find out. I'll talk to B'Elanna. You could enlist Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: She should have a few Borg algorithms up her sleeve. If she's in the mood.
CHAKOTAY: Problems?
JANEWAY: I don't know if she's getting restless or if it's just me, but we're butting heads more than usual lately. She seems to challenge everything I say.
CHAKOTAY: She's learned a lot from you over the last year. Maybe the pupil thinks she's outgrowing the mentor.
JANEWAY: Maybe. Well, this mentor would like another cup of coffee. Will you join me?
CHAKOTAY: Love to.

[Cargo bay]
PARIS: This goes to Engineering. Sickbay. Storage.
CHAKOTAY: I hope that's not going to the mess hall.
PARIS: I don't remember what this is. Neelix!
NEELIX: Captain, this man is a genius. I was trying to negotiate with a xenon-based lifeform when the Universal Translator went offline. Arturis here stepped in and acted as a perfect go-between, and he'd never heard either of our languages.
ARTURIS: Oh, they were simple. No insult intended.
PARIS: Neelix!
NEELIX: On my way. If you two will excuse me.
JANEWAY: Well, welcome to Voyager. We may be a linguistically simple folk but we're happy to give you a ride. Let's see if we can find you some quarters.
ARTURIS: Neelix was right. Voyager is a welcoming place.
JANEWAY: Well, we do our best.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: I can't say I've ever met a living Universal Translator.
ARTURIS: My people have a way with languages. I myself know over four thousand.
JANEWAY: And to think I still struggle with basic Klingon. You couldn't have heard Neelix say more than a few phrases.
ARTURIS: It was all I needed. It was enough to grasp the grammar and syntax.
JANEWAY: Impressive.
ARTURIS: Not really. It's a natural ability. Some species are born with great physical prowess. Others, like yours, with a generosity of spirit. My people can see patterns where others see only confusion. Is something wrong?
JANEWAY: No. Tell me, how are you at computational languages? Algorithms, trinary syntax?
ARTURIS: It's all the same to me.
JANEWAY: I was wondering if you might do us another favor.

[Astrometrics lab]
ARTURIS: You weren't exaggerating, Captain. This datastream is badly damaged. I'd like to see the entire transmission again. Are you Borg?
SEVEN: Yes.
ARTURIS: You're much more attractive than the average drone.
SEVEN: I am no longer part of the Collective.
ARTURIS: I see, I see. I think I see the problem. May I?
JANEWAY: Please.
JANEWAY: Have you encountered his people before?
SEVEN: Species one one six.
ARTURIS: Is that what you call us?
SEVEN: Yes. The Borg has never been able to assimilate them. Not yet.
JANEWAY: Seven.
ARTURIS: Oh, it's all right, Captain. The Borg Collective is like a force of nature. You don't feel anger toward a storm on the horizon, you just avoid it. Ah. Here it is. It's a simple matter of extracting the iconometric elements, and triaxilating a recursion matrix.
JANEWAY: Now why didn't I think of that?
ARTURIS: There's a great deal of information here, Captain. I think it might be useful to utilize the other monitors.
JANEWAY: You've done it.
ARTURIS: Almost. I've reconstructed over sixty eight kiloquads of information, but a lot of it is still garbled.
JANEWAY: What about that datablock. Fourteen beta?
ARTURIS: That part of the message is too degraded to recover.
SEVEN: Captain, I've found a spatial grid.
JANEWAY: They've marked a set of coordinates. It's less than ten light years from here.
SEVEN: Maybe Starfleet wants us to proceed to that location.
JANEWAY: Maybe. There's only one way to find out.

[Bridge]
PARIS: We're approaching the coordinates.
JANEWAY: Take us out of warp. Scan the vicinity.
TUVOK: I am picking up a vessel.
JANEWAY: On screen.
CHAKOTAY: Identify.
TUVOK: Unless I am mistaken, Captain, the warp signature is Starfleet.
PARIS: I'll be damned. They came through.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
TUVOK: Hailing them. No response.
CHAKOTAY: Lifesigns?
SEVEN: There is no organic matter of any kind.
KIM: No sign of damage to the outer hull. Primary systems are online including life support. Something must have happened to the crew.
JANEWAY: The answer is somewhere in that Starfleet transmission. We need to finish decoding it. May I call on your talents again?
ARTURIS: Of course.
JANEWAY: Take an away team. Secure the vessel.
CHAKOTAY: Tom. Tuvok.
ARTURIS: Captain. I won't pretend to know you well, but I am surprised you're not more encouraged by this discovery.
JANEWAY: I've learned to walk the line between hope and caution. We've had other opportunities that didn't work out. But I will admit, I'm leaning toward hope this time.

[Dauntless Bridge]
PARIS: Wow.
TUVOK: Wow indeed.
CHAKOTAY: I've never seen this kind of hull geometry. Looks like they've taken a whole new approach to starship design.
TUVOK: USS Dauntless. Registry NX-01A. Launch Date 51472.
CHAKOTAY: Sixty thousand light years in three months?
TUVOK: I'm trying to access the crew logs but there are none.
PARIS: I don't think there was a crew. This helm was set for auto-navigation to these coordinates.
TUVOK: It appears that Starfleet has provided us with a new ship.
CHAKOTAY: Let's not pack our bags just yet. I'd like to know how they
PARIS: I'm reading power fluctuations in the warp core, if you can call it a warp core. I don't recognize this engine configuration.
CHAKOTAY: Let's go take a look.

[Dauntless Engineering]
PARIS: I think we've found our engine core.
CHAKOTAY: Some kind of new warp drive?
PARIS: It's not antimatter, it's, I don't know what it is.
PARIS: They call this thing a quantum slipstream drive.
TUVOK: Quantum slipstream.
CHAKOTAY: I've never seen that in the engineering manuals.
PARIS: The ship's powering up. Auto-navigation is kicking in.

[Voyager Bridge]
KIM: Bridge to Janeway. The vessel's moving away at high impulse.

[Astrometrics lab]
KIM (voiceover): I can't raise the away team.
JANEWAY: Pursuit course, Ensign.

[Dauntless Engineering]
PARIS: I can't shut down the drive.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, disable propulsion.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
PARIS: Hang on.

[Voyager Bridge]
KIM: Bridge to Janeway. They're gone.

[Dauntless Engineering]
PARIS: Look at this. Energy from the quantum drive is being routed through the main deflector.
CHAKOTAY: Is that what's creating the slipstream?
PARIS: It looks that way.
TUVOK: Fascinating. Can you make it stop?
PARIS: I'll try accessing helm controls. We're back in normal space.
CHAKOTAY: Scan for Voyager.
TUVOK: No sign of them. Commander, we've traveled over fifteen light years.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. After two days at high warp, we've rendezvoused with the Dauntless. Arturis has helped us reconstruct most of the Starfleet message. The pieces of this puzzle are finally coming together.

[Briefing room]
HAYES (screen): Slipstream technology is experimental and high risk, but it's come a long way in the past year. We've conducted forty seven trial runs, all of them successful. But each flight lasted only five days. In order to reach Earth, you'd have to remain at slipstream velocities for a full three months. Can your crew survive that long? We believe they can, and we encourage you to try. Everything you'll need is on the Dauntless. Power cells, supplies, living quarters. Safe journey. We hope to see you soon.
JANEWAY: Admiral Hayes. Good man, fine officer, bit of a windbag. Let's talk about the risk. Doctor?
EMH: I've examined the away team for signs of cell damage or physiological stress. Nothing. Their little joyride didn't harm them in the slightest.
JANEWAY: Long term effects?
EMH: I'm running medical projections right now. So far, the results are encouraging.
JANEWAY: And the Dauntless itself?
CHAKOTAY: I'd say it's in pretty good shape, considering.
TORRES: I've been looking over the primary systems. Helm, Ops, Tactical, they're comparable to Voyager's. But it's a lean ship, Captain. No shuttlecraft, only one transporter, no holodecks, no replicators.
JANEWAY: Well, Mister Neelix, you may have your work cut out for you.
NEELIX: Ready and willing, Captain.
KIM: So what are we waiting for?
SEVEN: Your enthusiasm is premature. Voyager is a proven vessel. It would be reckless to abandon it so quickly.
KIM: Come on, where's that Borg spirit? We'll adapt.
SEVEN: My Borg spirit gives me an objectivity you lack.
TUVOK: She has a point. This would mean leaving Voyager behind.
CHAKOTAY: Is there any way we could modify Voyager to create a slipstream?
PARIS: In theory, but I don't think the ship would hold up very long under the quantum stresses.
JANEWAY: Try to make the modifications. If there's a way we can bring Voyager along for the ride, I'm all for it. Harry, B'Elanna, I want you to take an Engineering team down to the Dauntless. Start working on a way to shut down the slipstream drive at a moment's notice.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Once we have that safeguard in place, we can start making the test flights. I want this entire crew to familiarize themselves with that ship. See to it. Dismissed. Tuvok. Big day.
TUVOK: Indeed.
JANEWAY: A way home. We've waited for this moment for years. Why don't I feel more enthusiastic?
TUVOK: Perhaps my mental discipline is rubbing off on you.
JANEWAY: Perhaps. What do you think about this little miracle of ours?
TUVOK: I share your concern about the crew's safety. We must take every precaution.
JANEWAY: Somehow I don't think standard diagnostics and security protocols are going to make me feel any better.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: All of this is just a little too perfect. The alien genius with the answers to all our problems. A message from Starfleet telling us everything we want to hear. A starship delivered right to our doorstep. What more could we ask for? They even turned down the beds. The only thing missing was chocolates on the pillows.
TUVOK: It does seem convenient.
JANEWAY: I can't put my finger on it, but from the moment this all started I sensed something was wrong.
TUVOK: It started when Arturis boarded Voyager.
JANEWAY: Exactly. We'll proceed as planned, but I want you to investigate that ship from stem to stern. Keep an eye on our guest. See if you can find out more about him.
TUVOK: Understood.
JANEWAY: Let's hope we're just suffering from some good old-fashioned paranoia. Keep me posted.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. So far, the crew hasn't found any evidence to support my doubts about Arturis. Nevertheless, I've told them to keep looking and to keep their optimism in check. But that's one order I don't expect them to follow to the letter. Daily log, Seven of Nine, Stardate 51981.6. I've analyzed the quantum slipstream technology of the Dauntless. It is similar to the transwarp drive used by the Borg. As a result, my expertise will be crucial to the mission's success. Voyager's crew is counting on that success but I find myself ambivalent, so I'm carrying out my assignment, nothing more. Despite my apprehension, I can't help but wonder what I'll be doing in three months' time. Still guiding Voyager through the Delta Quadrant, searching for a way home, or looking up old friends in Indiana? If we do return to Sector zero zero one, will I adapt to human civilization? A single Borg among billions of individuals?

[Dauntless Engineering]
TORRES: Initiate emergency shutdown on my mark. Now.
KIM: Quantum field strength down to ninety percent. Eighty percent. It's leveling off at seventy five.
SEVEN: We need to dampen the field by at least fifty percent.
TORRES: Try reversing the quantum field polarities.
KIM: Seventy percent. Fifty five. Forty nine percent.
TORRES: We did it. We've got our safety net.
KIM: One step closer to home.
SEVEN: Tuvok wants us to run a metallurgical analysis of the bulkheads to look for anything unusual.
TORRES: Thank you. You two run the analysis. I'll be on the bridge with Arturis. Our resident genius said he'd help me figure out how to use the control sequencers.
SEVEN: Lieutenant, you seem eager to return to Earth.
TORRES: Eager? I wouldn't go that far.
SEVEN: You were a member of the Maquis. Starfleet Command will no doubt hold you responsible for a multitude of crimes. You will find nothing on Earth but adversity.
TORRES: That's looking on the bright side. Let's put it this way. I'd rather face the music back home than spend the rest of my life in the Delta Quadrant. What about you? Looking forward to seeing Earth?
SEVEN: No.
TORRES: I'm not surprised. You think people are going to resent an ex-Maquis? What about an ex-drone? We'll be outcasts together. I'm kidding, Seven. It's a joke. Work on that sense of humor. It'll help you make friends on Earth.
KIM: Seven, can you give me a hand down here? I'm picking up an anomalous energy surge.
SEVEN: There are no power conduits running through this section.
KIM: Believe me, Seven, one look at that big blue marble, and you'll fall in love. It's got just about every ecozystem you can think of, and hundreds of different humanoid species live there. Bolians, Vulcans, Ktarians. If you like Ktarians. And there are several other planets to choose from.
SEVEN: If you will excuse me, Ensign, I must speak to the captain.
KIM: Seven. For what's it worth, it won't be the same without you.
KIM: Kim to Tuvok.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok here.
KIM: I'm on the Dauntless, in the engine room, and I've found something

[Bridge]
KIM (voiceover): That qualifies as unusual.
TUVOK: I'll be right there.

[Astrometrics]
JANEWAY: Computer, display datablock fourteen beta, auxiliary display.
JANEWAY: Seven, I could use your help. I'm trying to reconstruct the last fragment of the Starfleet message.
SEVEN: Arturis said it was irreparably damaged.
JANEWAY: I know, but I think he gave up too easily.
SEVEN: Intuition?
JANEWAY: It's intuition if I'm right. I've designed a new decryption algorithm. Let's give it a try.
SEVEN: Captain. I will not be going with you to the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: I can understand your reluctance. It's been hard enough dealing with a crew of a hundred and fifty individual humans. The prospect of an entire planet must be overwhelming.
SEVEN: I am not overwhelmed. I simply do not wish to live among humans.
JANEWAY: Well, whether you like it or not, you're one of us. You've come a long way from that drone who stepped out of a Borg alcove nine months ago. Don't turn your back on humanity now. Not when you're about to take your biggest step. Earth. Your home.
SEVEN: I may have come a long way, but not in the direction you think. You've attempted to influence my development. You exposed me to your culture, you ideals. You hoped to shape me in your own image. But you have failed. You may have noticed our tendency to disagree.
JANEWAY: Oh, I've noticed.
SEVEN: Then you must also recognize that I do not share your values. Your desire to explore space is inefficient. Your need for familial connections is a weakness. Your infatuation with this planet is irrational.
JANEWAY: I won't argue that you've turned out differently than I expected, and that we often have conflicting points of view. But right now, the stakes are higher. This crew needs your expertise. Abandon them and you diminish their chances of getting home.
SEVEN: Irrelevant.
JANEWAY: No, it's not. We've given you a lot, Seven. It's time you gave something in return.
SEVEN: I have, on many occasions. Now I refuse.
JANEWAY: What would you do, go back to the Collective?
SEVEN: I don't know.
JANEWAY: Then what exactly do you have in mind?
SEVEN: I don't know.
JANEWAY: That's my point. You're asking me to cast you adrift in the Delta Quadrant alone and without support. I wouldn't grant that request to any member of this crew because it's too dangerous.
SEVEN: I will survive.
JANEWAY: On what, Borg perfection?
SEVEN: Precisely.
JANEWAY: I don't buy it. This isn't about your independence or your superiority. This is about your fear. You're not making this choice because you've outgrown humanity. I think you're afraid to go back to Earth.
JANEWAY: The algorithm's working. It's reconstructing the datablock. That's strange, I thought we already recovered this part of the message.
SEVEN: Perhaps it is an addendum from the Admiral. You did designate him a windbag.
JANEWAY: Oh, I don't think so. The data index doesn't match. This is a completely different message.
ADMIRAL HAYES (screen): Apologies from everyone at Starfleet Command. We've had our best people working around the clock, trying to find a wormhole, a new means of propulsion, anything to get you home. But despite our best efforts. I know it's not what you were hoping, but we've sent you all the data we've collected on the Delta Quadrant. With any luck, you'll find at least some part of it useful. Maybe enough to shave a few years off your journey. Safe journey. We hope to see you soon.
SEVEN: Your intuition was correct.
JANEWAY: Unfortunately.
SEVEN: Arturis must have created a false message.
JANEWAY: It sure as hell looks that way. Janeway to Tuvok.
TUVOK (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: My suspicions have been confirmed.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Arturis tampered with Starfleet's message.

[Dauntless Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): The Dauntless isn't what it appears to be.
TUVOK: I agree. We've discovered alien technology behind a bulkhead

[Corridor]
TUVOK (voiceover): In Engineering. I can't identify it.
JANEWAY: Where's Arturis now?

[Dauntless Engineering]
TUVOK: On the Dauntless bridge, working with Lieutenant Torres.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go to the bridge, but don't tip our hand.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: I'll be there with a full security team within minutes.

[Dauntless Engineering]
TUVOK: Understood.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Let's get weapons.

[Dauntless Bridge]
TORRES: Don't touch that! You almost kicked us into slipstream drive.
ARTURIS: Oh. I wouldn't want to do that. Kucha meRah.
TORRES: No problem. You speak Klingon.
ARTURIS: I do now. Your captain was kind enough to let me review your linguistic database.
TORRES: I only know speak a few phrases myself.
ARTURIS: Oh, shame. It's a robust language.
TORRES: A little too robust for me.
JANEWAY: Evacuate the repair teams.
TORRES: Captain?
JANEWAY: Do it. Explain yourself.
ARTURIS: I don't know what you're talking about.
JANEWAY: You fabricated the message from Starfleet. I recovered the real transmission. The one you said was irreparably damaged.
ARTURIS: That's absurd.
JANEWAY: Starfleet didn't send us this vessel and you're not here to help. Is this your ship?
ARTURIS: Please, stay calm, There must be an explanation.
JANEWAY: I tried to ignore my gut feelings, because I got carried away by the excitement of getting home. But you preyed on that, didn't you? You took advantage of our hopes and now I want to know why.
ARTURIS: I believe that there is a threat here, Captain, but not from me. I didn't feel it was my place to make accusations, but I saw her reconfigure several key algorithms two days ago in your Astrometrics lab, and it seemed obvious. She must have been tampering with the Starfleet message.
SEVEN: You are lying.
ARTURIS: She's been sabotaging your every effort to reach Earth. You don't have to believe me, Captain. You can find all the evidence you need in her personal database.
JANEWAY: Evidence you undoubtedly put there yourself just in case you got caught. Take him to Voyager. Throw him the brig.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Voyager. Beam us out of here.

[Voyager Bridge]
KIM: He's trying to deflect our transporters. Stand by.
KIM: I've got everyone but Seven and the Captain. He's found a way to block their transport.
PARIS: The ship's going into slipstream mode.
CHAKOTAY: Pursuit course.
PARIS: We lost them, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Tom, bring the warp core modifications online. We're going after them.
PARIS: Sir, we haven't even had a trial run yet.
CHAKOTAY: There's no time like the present.

[Dauntless Bridge]
SEVEN: Where are you taking us?
ARTURIS: Home.
JANEWAY: How'd you create the Starfleet bridge? Holograms?
ARTURIS: Particle synthesis. Beyond your understanding.
JANEWAY: Is this what your people do? Prey on innocent ships?
ARTURIS: Innocent? Typical of Captain Janeway. Self-righteous.
JANEWAY: If I've offended you or your people in some way, please tell me.
ARTURIS: Diplomacy, Captain? Your diplomacy destroyed my world.
JANEWAY: What? What are you saying?
ARTURIS: You negotiated an agreement with the Borg Collective. Safe passage through their space. And in return, you helped them defeat one of their enemies.
SEVEN: Species eight four seven two.
ARTURIS: In your colorful language, yes. Species eight four seven two. Did it ever occur to you that there were those of us in the Delta Quadrant who had a vested interest in that war? Victory would have meant the annihilation of the Borg, but you couldn't see beyond the bow of your own ship!
JANEWAY: In my estimation, Species eight four seven two posed a greater threat than the Borg.
ARTURIS: Who are you to make that decision? A stranger to this Quadrant.
JANEWAY: There wasn't exactly time to take a poll. I had to act quickly.
ARTURIS: My people managed to elude the Borg for centuries. Outwitting them, always one step ahead. But in recent years, the Borg began to weaken our defenses. They were closing in and Species eight four seven two was our last hope to defeat them. You took that away from us! The outer colonies were the first to fall. Twenty three in a matter of hours. Our sentry vessels tossed aside, no defense against the storm. By the time they'd surrounded our star system, hundreds of Cubes, we had already surrendered to our own terror. A few of us managed to survive. Ten, twenty thousand. I was fortunate. I escaped with a vessel. Alone, but alive. I don't blame them. They were just drones, acting with their Collective instinct. You, you had a choice!
JANEWAY: I'm sorry for what happened to your people, but try to understand. I couldn't have known.
ARTURIS: It took me months to find you. I watched and waited for my opportunity to make you pay for what you'd done. Then the Starfleet message, and I knew that your selfish desire to get home would surface again. That I could lure you to this vessel. That I could see to it that you'd all be assimilated and spend the rest of eternity as Borg. I was hoping to get your entire crew, but I'll settle for the two of you. In a matter of hours, this ship will return to my homeworld. Inside Borg space.
SEVEN: When that happens, you will be assimilated as well.
ARTURIS: That's irrelevant. This is what you wanted all along, isn't it? To go back to your Collective? You should thank me.

[Voyager Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Report.
PARIS: We're at full impulse, but we're not breaking through the quantum barrier.
TUVOK: I'm having trouble controlling the field parameters. I need more power to the deflector.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Torres.
TORRES (voiceover): I'm already on it, Commander.

[Voyager Engineering]
TORRES: Stand by. Reroute auxiliary power to Deflector Control. Make sure that quantum warp field is stable.
CREWMAN: Aye, Lieutenant.

[Voyager Bridge]
TUVOK: Deflector at maximum. I'm focusing the quantum field.
KIM: Make it quick. Hull temperature's at critical.
PARIS: We're at slipstream velocity.
KIM: Structural integrity's down by nine percent. We've got less than an hour before the hull starts to buckle.
PARIS: I've located their slipstream. I'm aligning ours to match. We're right behind them.
CHAKOTAY: How far behind?
PARIS: Just a few minutes.
TUVOK: Is there any way to increase our speed?
PARIS: None. We're at maximum.
CHAKOTAY: Maintain course. If I know the captain, she's already got a plan.

[Dauntless Brig]
JANEWAY: Any ideas?
SEVEN: Not presently.
JANEWAY: We'd better think of something. We come face to face with your former family in less than an hour, and that's one reunion I'd like to miss. Unless of course, you're looking forward to rejoining the Collective?
SEVEN: I do not believe I am.
JANEWAY: Not the ringing opposition I was hoping for, but I'll take it. A drone could walk through this forcefield like it was thin air. Is there enough Borg technology left in your body to let it adapt?
SEVEN: If I activate the appropriate nanoprobes, I could alter my bio-electric field. However, I would need to adjust my cranial implant.
JANEWAY: Would a micro-filament do the trick?
SEVEN: It might.
JANEWAY: Then let's get you one. Once you get outside, access that control panel and disable the forcefield. Then we'll try to reach the engine room.
SEVEN: And employ the emergency shutdown procedure.
SEVEN: Sufficient. You will need to cross-link the third and sixth nodules.
JANEWAY: Déjà-vu.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: As I recall, this is where our relationship began. In a brig, nine months ago. I severed you from the Collective and you weren't exactly happy about it.
SEVEN: No, I was not.
JANEWAY: In case I never get a chance to say this, I realize that I've been hard on you at times. But it was never out of anger, or regret that I brought you on board. I'm your Captain. That means I can't always be your friend. Understand?
SEVEN: No. However, if we are assimilated, our thoughts will become one, and I'm sure I will understand perfectly. A joke, Captain. You yourself have encouraged me to use my sense of humor.
JANEWAY: It's nice to know you've taken some of my advice to heart.
SEVEN: You were correct. My desire to remain in the Delta Quadrant was based on fear. I am no longer Borg, but the prospect of becoming human is unsettling. I don't know where I belong.
JANEWAY: You belong with us.
SEVEN: The adaptations are complete.
JANEWAY: We're in business.

[Dauntless Engineering]
SEVEN: I can't initiate the emergency shutdown.
JANEWAY: Our commands are being blocked from the bridge. He's detected us.
SEVEN: The ship's velocity has just increased. At our present speed, we will enter Borg space in less than twelve minutes.
JANEWAY: Do we still have access to the power distribution grid?
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: If we can't throw on the brakes, let's swerve the wheel. Send a power surge into the starboard thrusters.
SEVEN: The torsional stress at these speeds could tear the ship apart.
JANEWAY: It's either that or join the Hive. Do it. If we're still in one piece, try to gain control of navigation. I'll be on the bridge. We have a game of Velocity scheduled for tomorrow, holodeck one. I expect you to keep the appointment.
SEVEN: Aye, Captain.

[Dauntless Bridge]
JANEWAY: Sorry about the bumpy ride.
ARTURIS: You can slow this ship down, but you can't stop it. In four minutes, Captain Janeway will be gone and a new drone will be born.
JANEWAY: Don't count on it. Seven of Nine has accessed your navigational systems. You taught us how to use this ship a little too well. I can't begin to imagine your loss, but try to see beyond your desire for revenge.
ARTURIS: Revenge is all I have left.
JANEWAY: No. As long you're alive there's hope. Your people's accomplishments, their knowledge, their dignity, can survive in you. End this.
ARTURIS: I've just destroyed the navigational controls. No one can stop this ship now. Not even me. Two minutes to Borg space.

[Voyager Bridge]
TUVOK: Direct hit. The vessel's shields are down. Transporters standing by.
CHAKOTAY: Get a lock on our people.

[Dauntless Bridge]
ARTURIS: Voyager.
JANEWAY: Come with me. It's not too late.
ARTURIS: It is for you.

[Voyager Bridge]
KIM: I've got them, Commander, Transporter Room two.
CHAKOTAY: Alter our slipstream. Hard starboard. Take us back the way we came.

[Dauntless Bridge]
BORG (voiceover): We are the Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We remained in the quantum slipstream for an hour before it finally collapsed. Our diagnostics have concluded that we can't risk using this technology again. But we did manage to get three hundred light years closer to home.

[Holodeck]
COMPUTER: Full impact. Final round to Janeway. Winner, Janeway.
JANEWAY: Nice play. You almost had me.
SEVEN: Almost.
JANEWAY: Go again?
SEVEN: I must report to the Astrometrics lab. There is work to be done.
JANEWAY: Work? I gave the crew strict orders to take some R and R over the next few days, and that includes you.
SEVEN: There are more pressing needs. I am attempting to design another method of traveling at slipstream velocities without damaging Voyager.
JANEWAY: I thought that was impossible.
SEVEN: Impossible is a word that humans use far too often. I wish to continue my efforts.
JANEWAY: A few days ago you were ready to abandon ship, and here you are, practically laying in a course to Earth.
SEVEN: As we approached Borg space I began to re-evaluate my future. The prospect of becoming a drone was unappealing.
JANEWAY: Sometimes you've got to look back in order to move forward. Sounds to me like you're starting to embrace your humanity.
SEVEN: No. But as I said, nothing is impossible.
JANEWAY: Computer. One more game.

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]
CHAOTICA (voiceover): Citizens of Earth! Your destiny is in my hands. Those of you who acquiesce to my demands will be treated fairly. Oppose me, and you face a dire fate indeed as my slaves in the mines of Mercury! You have one hour.
KIM: You'll never get away with this.
CHAOTICA: Oh, but I shall. Your once proud country will fall to its knees. How ironic that I am using your rocket ship to lead my space force into battle!.
KIM: You're wrong, Chaotica. Before you came on board, someone pushed the self-destruct button. In three minutes, we'll all be dead.
CHAOTICA: No!
PARIS: The jig is up, your Majesty.
CHAOTICA: Captain Proton.
PARIS: Spaceman First Class, Protector of Earth, scourge of intergalactic evil, at your service.
CHAOTICA: But I saw you fall into the fiery mouth of that volcano.
PARIS: It takes more than a little lava to stop Captain Proton. Now, I want you to call off your invasion and give me back my rocket ship.
CHAOTICA: There is one force in this universe that even you cannot defeat.
EMH: The same to you.
PARIS: Doc.
EMH: Mister Paris. I should have known it was you monopolizing the holodeck.
CHAOTICA: Who is this insolent fool?
KIM: He's one of our men. Computer, adjust the Doctor's spectral frequency.
EMH: I have no interest in your frivolous fantasy. I'm here to rehearse a duet from Don Carlo and you've already gone three minutes into my scheduled
CHAOTICA: Enough! Robot, attack!
CHAOTICA: Destroy them. Start with him.
EMH: Computer, freeze program.
PARIS: Doc, this is the final chapter. Satan's Robot Conquers the World. We can't stop now.
EMH: Does the phrase to be continued mean anything to you?
PARIS: Your opera can wait.
EMH: This program is a waste of photonic energy.
PARIS: Oh, really. Take a look around you. This is how the twentieth century saw the future. We are studying sociology.
EMH: Perhaps you can teach a course at Starfleet Academy. Satan's Robot - an Historical Overview.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to holodeck one. What's going on down there?
KIM (voiceover): Oh, nothing, Commander. Just a little power surge.
CHAKOTAY: Says here the hologrid just blew out.
KIM (voiceover): We're fixing it now, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Well, make it quick. The last thing we need is a broken holodeck.
CHAKOTAY: Seven, I want good news. That's an order.
SEVEN: Then I must disobey. I have no good news to report. I've completed an astrometric scan of the entire region. There are no star systems within twenty five hundred light years.
CHAKOTAY: Nothing?
SEVEN: Nothing.
CHAKOTAY: Why can't we see stars beyond that?
SEVEN: There are heavy concentrations of theta radiation. It has occluded our sensors.
CHAKOTAY: Any other ships out there?
SEVEN: None. We are alone.
CHAKOTAY: Every sailor's nightmare.
SEVEN: Commander.?
CHAKOTAY: It's like being becalmed in the middle of the ocean. If it weren't for sensors we wouldn't even know we were at warp. We've only been crossing this expanse for two months and we're already feeling the strain. How do we last another two years?
SEVEN: We will adapt.
CHAKOTAY: Easier said than done.
SEVEN: Shall I inform the Captain of my findings?
CHAKOTAY: No. I'll tell her. First Officer's log, Stardate 52081.2. It's been fifty three days since we entered this desolate region. If we want to continue our course toward home we have no choice but to cross it. We won't have an opportunity to take on fresh supplies or fuel, so I've ordered all departments to create an energy reserve. We're using power cells to stockpile deuterium.

[Briefing room]
TORRES: This won't be much of a briefing. There's nothing new to report.
CHAKOTAY: Humor me.
TORRES: All right, let's see. Warp core's at peak efficiency, just like last week, and the week before that. And my engineering staff is going stir crazy.
CHAKOTAY: Thanks. Ensign.
KIM: Nada.
CHAKOTAY: Can you be more specific?
KIM: All systems are operating within normal parameters.
CHAKOTAY: Anything new on sensors?
TUVOK: I've detected a sudden increase in theta radiation in the vicinity.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
TUVOK: Unknown.
CHAKOTAY: Could be worth a look.
PARIS: Finally some excitement. Radiation.
CHAKOTAY: Next piece of business. Crew morale.
EMH: Deteriorating, obviously.
NEELIX: I have a few suggestions that might boost people's spirits.
CHAKOTAY: Please.
NEELIX: Rotate crew assignments. Add variety to the daily routine. I myself wouldn't mind squeezing in a little tactical training.
TUVOK: Noted.
NEELIX: And the holodecks have been in high demand. I was thinking we could install a few emitters in Cargo Bay two. Turn it into a third holodeck.
EMH: Hear, hear.
CHAKOTAY: See to it, Harry.
NEELIX: One other item, sir. A point of er, concern among some of the crew. It's, well, it's the Captain. She's been a bit elusive lately.
CHAKOTAY: What's your point?
NEELIX: People take comfort in talking to her. When they see that the Captain's happy, they're happy.
PARIS: Rumor has it she never leaves her quarters.
CHAKOTAY: Captain's privilege. She'll come to the bridge if and when she's needed.
TORRES: Spare us the protocol, Chakotay. It's pretty odd, you've got to admit it.
CHAKOTAY: It's her choice. She can run this ship from wherever the hell she wants to. Understood?
TORRES: Yeah. Sure.
CHAKOTAY: We're all feeling the pressure, including me.
KIM: Listen, maybe we've got the wrong attitude. Let's think of this as a two year vacation.
CHAKOTAY: Dismissed.
TORRES: That's a great idea, Harry.
PARIS: Wow, Harry. You're a real genius. How do you come up with these brilliant ideas?
KIM: You're such an optimistic guy.

[Neelix's quarters]
NEELIX: Computer, lights! Maximum level! Bergamot tea, hot. First thing in the morning I replicate some curtains.

[Mess hall]
TORRES: Predictable. The Novokavich gambit. You always use that opening move.
PARIS: That's because you always fall for it.
TORRES: I feel like we've played this match a hundred times.
PARIS: Derada is a game of subtlety.
TORRES: Too subtle for me.
PARIS: Hmm. I'll bet.
TORRES: What's that supposed to mean?
PARIS: Well, if it doesn't involve Klingon pain sticks.
TORRES: Good night.
PARIS: There you go, just when I'm winning. Who's predictable?
TORRES: You don't want to start a fight with me now. Not at three a.m.
PARIS: Three in the morning, four in the afternoon. What's the difference? You're angry twenty four hours a day.
TORRES: Everything is a joke to you.
NEELIX: Good evening. Or should I say good morning? Guess you couldn't sleep either.
PARIS: Oh, why sleep when we're having so much fun.
TORRES: He's joking, Neelix. We're all supposed to laugh.
NEELIX: I certainly am laughing, on the inside. Smiling, anyway. Let's start a new game. Cards? Maybe a little snack?
PARIS: No. I have a better idea. Why don't we make a schedule. A fight rotation. We can optimize our resources. I can start one, then you can start one.
NEELIX: Please.
TORRES: I am really tired of these games.
PARIS: Well then, don't play them.
NEELIX: Stop! You are senior officers! You are you are supposed to be setting an example for the rest. The rest of the crew.
TORRES: Neelix?
PARIS: Paris to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: Some morale officer I turned out to be.
EMH: I've given you a mild sedative. It should control the urge to hyperventilate, and alleviate some of your anxiety.
NEELIX: Anxiety? Anxiety's what I feel when I burn a pot roast. This. This is more like.
EMH: Dizziness? Nausea? Unspeakable dread?
NEELIX: Yes.
EMH: Nihiliphobia. the fear of nothingness. Or in layman's terms, the fear of nothingness. If it's any consolation, I can relate to it. I go into a void every time I'm deactivated. Emptiness, complete and utter oblivion. I'll admit it was unsettling at first. The existential horror of it all.
NEELIX: You're not helping, Doctor.
EMH: Sorry. My point is, you'll get used to it.
NEELIX: I hope so.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Commander. Am I disturbing you.
TUVOK: No.
SEVEN: Is the Astrometrics lab designated for recreational use?
TUVOK: I come here to meditate. Needless to say, the view from my quarters has been less than stellar lately.
SEVEN: Astronomical phenomena help you to focus your mind.
TUVOK: Yes. I imagine that each star represents a single thought.
SEVEN: Meditation. It rejuvenates you?
TUVOK: Indeed it does.
SEVEN: I suggest you try Borg regeneration. It's much more efficient. A simple cortical implant would be required.
TUVOK: Another time, perhaps.
TUVOK: What is it?
SEVEN: Long range sensors are detecting more theta radiation. Dangerously high levels.
TUVOK: Source?
SEVEN: Unknown.

[Janeway's quarters]
CHAKOTAY: It's probably nothing. Just background theta radiation. But it could mean there's someone nearby.
JANEWAY: Distance?
CHAKOTAY: Approximately twenty five light years.
JANEWAY: It's a long shot, but alter course.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: If that's all, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I'd like to make a request. I've been saving up my holodeck rations and I've got three full hours coming. Any chance I might persuade you to join me for a few rounds of Velocity? It'll help clear your mind.
JANEWAY: My mind is perfectly clear.
CHAKOTAY: And what if I told you I'm not leaving until you join me?
JANEWAY: I'd say, have a seat, it'll be a while.
CHAKOTAY: Then I'll be blunt. You've picked a bad time to isolate yourself from the crew. This ship needs a Captain, especially now.
JANEWAY: Would you be satisfied with I'm just catching up on some reading? I'm not sure I understand it myself. It started when we entered this, what does the crew call it?
CHAKOTAY: The Void.
JANEWAY: Charming. Oh, what I wouldn't give for a few Borg cubes about now. Anything for a little distraction. Strange as it sounds, I almost long for the days when we were under constant attack. No time to stop and think about how we got stranded in the Delta quadrant. How did we end up here, Chakotay? Answer me.
CHAKOTAY: We were faced with a difficult choice. We had the means to get home but using it would've put an innocent people at risk, so we decided to stay.
JANEWAY: No. No, no. I decided to stay. I made that choice for everyone.
CHAKOTAY: We're alive and well, and we've gathered enough data about this quadrant to keep Starfleet scientists busy for decades. Our mission's been a success.
JANEWAY: The very same words I've been telling myself for the past four years. But then we hit this Void, and I started to realize how empty those words sound.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn.
JANEWAY: I made an error in judgment, Chakotay. It was short-sighted and it was selfish, and now all of us are paying for my mistake. So if you don't mind, Commander, I'll pass on that little game. And I'll leave shipboard morale in your capable hands. If the crew asks for me, tell them the Captain sends her regards.

[Bridge]
KIM: Sir.
TUVOK: Relax, Ensign. Anything to report?
KIM: Not even a stray electron. But I did finish writing my concerto. I call it 'Echoes of the Void.' Got a minute?
TUVOK: Too many, in fact.
KIM: Tell me what you think.

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]
PARIS: Now, when we last saw our heroes, they had just retaken their rocket ship. Doctor Chaotica had escaped, but he left behind his trusty robot to foil Captain Proton.
SEVEN: My designation?
PARIS: Ah, right. You're Constance Goodheart. You're my secretary.
SEVEN: Secretary.
PARIS: Yeah, you tag along on all the missions. Now, I want you to keep the robot occupied while I save Earth. Computer, run program.
ROBOT: Citizen of Earth, surrender! Do not resist!
SEVEN: I am Borg.
ROBOT: Surrender.
SEVEN: The robot has been neutralized. May I leave now?
PARIS: Come on, Seven. Give it a chance. The galaxy's at stake.

[Bridge]
KIM: We've dropped out of warp. We're losing power.
TUVOK: Switch to auxiliary.
KIM: No effect.
KIM: I was hoping for a change of pace, but a blackout isn't exactly what I had in mind. I'll try tapping into the energy reserves.

[Engineering]
MAN: Double check the radio relays.
TORRES: Get inside those plasma injectors. Infuse them manually if you have to.

[Holodeck]
SEVEN: Lieutenant.
PARIS: Just a second. I'm not sure how to work this thing.
PARIS: Captain Protein to the rescue! It's not exactly Starfleet issue. A ship-wide power loss? Everything's offline, main power, auxiliary.
SEVEN: Independent subsystems are operational. Environmental controls, holodecks. Reroute power from this holodeck to the emergency relays.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. No luck. The hologrid is frozen.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Neelix.
NEELIX: Don't mind me.
CHAKOTAY: There's been a power loss. Nothing to worry about.
NEELIX: Who's worried?
CHAKOTAY: Come on. Take deep breaths nice and slow. That's it.

[Bridge]
KIM: Bingo. We've got partial sensors. I've found the cause of our power drain. It's some kind of dampening field. The source is off the port bow. That's about all I can tell you.
TUVOK: On screen. Do we have the power to launch a photon torpedo?
KIM: Maybe one, why?
TUVOK: Perhaps we could shed some light on our predicament. I'm reconfiguring the torpedo to emit a sustained polyluminous burst.
KIM: A warp flare.
TUVOK: Precisely.

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]
PARIS: I need something to pry open this hatch.
SEVEN: Computer, disengage safety protocols!

[Corridor]
NEELIX: I saw something, over there. I'm telling you, I saw something. I may be nihiliphobic but my eyes work just fine. I can hear breathing.
JANEWAY: Follow me.
NEELIX: Yes, ma'am.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Torpedo reconfigured. Away.

[Engineering]
TORRES: I can barely see the injector ports. How about a little light over here?
JANEWAY: We can do better than that. This power cell should be enough to get emergency power back online.
TORRES: Up here. We'll hook it up directly to the EPS manifold.

[Bridge]
KIM: Emergency power just came back. We've got tactical.
TUVOK: Raising shields.

[Engineering]
TORRES: The warp core's online.
JANEWAY: Janeway to bridge, report.
TUVOK (voiceover): The dampening field has been blocked, Captain. We are surrounded by three alien vessels.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Seventeen intruders are on board.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: The ships aren't responding to hails.
CHAKOTAY: We do have weapons online.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, target the ship off our port bow. Fire a few warning shots.
TUVOK (voiceover): Shields down to sixty four percent.
CHAKOTAY: Do we have propulsion?
TORRES: Not yet.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: He was attacked by an intruder.
EMH: These burns are severe.
SEVEN: I disabled the alien. It may still be alive.
EMH: Bring it to Sickbay.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Shields are down.
KIM: They're reinitializing the dampening field. We're losing power.

[Engineering]
NEELIX: Not again.
CHAKOTAY: They've stopped their attack. They're beaming off the ship.

[Bridge]
KIM: There's another vessel approaching.
KIM: We're being hailed.
TUVOK: On screen. I'm Lieutenant Commander Tuvok of the Federation.
EMCK (screen): I had to fire thirteen spatial charges to drive those ships off. I expect to be compensated.
TUVOK: Of course.
EMCK (screen): Now tell me, what are you doing in the middle of nowhere?

[Transporter room]
TUVOK: The biofilters are detecting high levels of theta radiation.
JANEWAY: Compensate. Welcome aboard. I'm afraid we'll have to talk here. You appear to be leaking.
EMCK: Yes, yes, my isolation suit. Don't be alarmed.
CHAKOTAY: We prefer to be on the safe side, Mister?
EMCK: Emck. Controller Emck. Malon export vessel, eleventh gradient.
JANEWAY: It's a pleasure to meet you, and a relief.
EMCK: I'd advise you to turn around immediately. There are more of those creatures ahead, thousands of vessels. They're almost impossible to detect. You won't survive another attack.
JANEWAY: We can't go back. We're crossing this expanse to reach our home.
EMCK: Then, er, it appears you'll be coming with me.
TUVOK: What do you mean?
EMCK: There's a spatial vortex a few light years from here. It leads directly to the other side of the expanse. We've been using it for years.
CHAKOTAY: That would get us out of the Void, and cut two years off our journey home.
JANEWAY: Well, thank you again. I'm curious, Mister Emck. What are you doing here, besides rescuing starships in distress?
EMCK: Ah, I'm on a transport mission. My sensors tell me that one of the creatures is still aboard your ship.
CHAKOTAY: It was injured during the attack. Our doctor's treating it.
JANEWAY: Why?
EMCK: Enough questions. Give me the creature and I'll take you to the vortex.
JANEWAY: Oh, my apologies, Mister Emck, but I'd like to know what's going on here. Are you at war with these beings?
EMCK: None of your concern.
JANEWAY: Your vessel seems to be leaking large amounts of theta radiation. What kind of transport mission are you on, exactly?
EMCK: My ship will depart in two hours. Cooperate or stay behind. I won't be coming to your rescue when the creatures return. I'm finished here.
JANEWAY: I think it's time we heard the other side of the story.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Watch your step, I've had to lower the lights. My patient is extremely photosensitive.
CHAKOTAY: That could explain why they dampened our power.
EMH: My feelings exactly. From what I can tell this life form may be indigenous to the Void. His physiology has evolved to survive in complete darkness.
JANEWAY: His condition?
EMH: Minor injuries. Phaser wounds to the chest and neck. But that's the least of his problems. He's dying, Captain. Every organ is degrading at the cellular level.
JANEWAY: Theta radiation poisoning.
EMH: The final stages. My guess is he's been exposed to it over a long period. There's nothing I can do.
JANEWAY: I'd like a word with him. I'm Kathryn Janeway, captain of this vessel.
NIGHT ALIEN: You are allied with the Malon.
JANEWAY: No. We're simply trying to cross this region. We never met the Malon before today.
NIGHT ALIEN: They will want me.
JANEWAY: Well, I have no intention of giving you to them. You're not a captive here. Doctor. Are you at war with the Malon?
NIGHT ALIEN: Their ships are poison.
JANEWAY: The theta radiation.
NIGHT ALIEN: They're killing us.
JANEWAY: Why? What do they want from you?
NIGHT ALIEN: Nothing.
EMH: This will help alleviate the pain.
JANEWAY: I don't understand.
NIGHT ALIEN: We were ignorant. We attacked you. Forgive us.
JANEWAY: Of course. But I need to understand. You say the Malon are killing your people. There must be a reason.
NIGHT ALIEN: They're poisoning our space. We don't know why.
EMH: He's in respiratory distress. We need to get him back to his people. They might know how to treat him.
NIGHT ALIEN: I will show you how.
JANEWAY: I need a workstation. Route it to the helm. If you enter the coordinates, my pilot will set a course.
NIGHT ALIEN: I am grateful.
JANEWAY: Take the bridge. I'll stay here.
CHAKOTAY: We still don't have a defense against their dampening field. If they decide to attach again.
JANEWAY: I'm confident they won't. Finally, something to put in my logbook.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok.

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: I need your advice.
TUVOK: A first.
CHAKOTAY: Look, I realize we're not exactly best friends. From day one, we've kept each other at arm's length. But I've always respected your judgment and right now, I could use a little Vulcan clarity.
TUVOK: Proceed.
CHAKOTAY: It's the Captain. As you may have noticed, she's isolated herself from the crew.
TUVOK: She believes that she made an error in judgment four years ago. That she's responsible for stranding Voyager in the Delta Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: She told you?
TUVOK: No. I've been observing her behavior for the past four years. Guilt has been her constant companion.
CHAKOTAY: You've known her longer than anyone. Have you ever seen her like this?
TUVOK: Only once. It was during her first year as a Commander on the USS Billings. She sent an away team to survey a volcanic moon. Their shuttle was damaged by a magma eruption and three crew members were severely injured. The next day she returned to the moon alone to complete the survey. She wanted the crew to know that their suffering had not been in vain. She could have been killed.
CHAKOTAY: Seeking redemption.
TUVOK: Precisely. Captain Janeway's methods are unorthodox. It is her strength as a leader, but unfortunately, it is also her greatest weakness.
CHAKOTAY: Stubborn as a Klingon.
TUVOK: To put it mildly.
CHAKOTAY: If she tries something like that again I want to be ready and I'm going to need your support.

[Bridge]
PARIS: We're at the coordinates.
CHAKOTAY: All stop. Shields up. Tuvok.
TUVOK: Nothing on sensors.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Captain.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We've arrived.
JANEWAY: Stand by.
NIGHT ALIEN: They're here, but I must tell them you are a friend. Your communications system?

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm picking up photonic surges. They're all around us.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we've got company. Eight ships, twelve more approaching.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Let's run a full bioscan.
NIGHT ALIEN: We have lived here for millions of years, undisturbed until the Malon came.
EMH: Captain, every one of them seems to be suffering from theta radiation exposure.
NIGHT ALIEN: We tell them they are killing us. They won't listen. We tried to stop them. They're too strong!
JANEWAY: What about the vortex? Can you close it, keep them out?
NIGHT ALIEN: We don't know how. Your ship is powerful, your people resourceful. We need your help.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Bridge to Captain. They're locking onto the alien in sickbay.
JANEWAY: Lower the shields.
NIGHT ALIEN: Will you help us?

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: Poison.
SEVEN: The vessel is ejecting massive quantities of contaminated antimatter.
CHAKOTAY: Their cargo holds are loaded with it. Over ninety million isotons.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
EMCK (screen): Captain. You've decided to join us. Send the creature to my
JANEWAY: That won't be possible. We've returned him to his people. You wanted the lifeform because you were afraid we'd uncover your transport mission.
EMCK (screen): I said this was none of your concern.
JANEWAY: Well, it is now. You're using their space as a dumping ground for your antimatter waste. Why?
EMCK (screen): My civilization produces over six billion isotons of industrial by-product every day. This region is a perfect disposal site.
CHAKOTAY: How convenient, for you. A spatial vortex to the middle of nowhere, far away from your own system. Out of sight, out of mind. Problem is, somebody lives here.
EMCK (screen): One species.
JANEWAY: One's enough. We didn't come here to debate the issue. We came here to offer a peaceful solution.
EMCK (screen): What kind of solution?
JANEWAY: My people use anti-matter as well, but we've found ways to purify the reactants so there's no toxic waste. We'll show you.
CHAKOTAY: Guide us through the vortex. We can meet with your scientists on the other side, exchange information.
EMCK (screen): Show me now.
JANEWAY: Stand by for transport. Commander, take our guest to Engineering. Give him a demonstration. Let's turn our sensors on that vortex. I want to know exactly how it works, just in case diplomacy fails.
SEVEN: Do you intend to destroy it?

[Engineering]
TORRES: The residual anti-matter is then processed in the transkinetic chamber, where it's broken down on the subatomic level.
EMCK: What about the theta radiation?
TORRES: Oh, it's absorbed by a series of radiometric converters. We recycle the energy, use it to power everything from life support to replicators.
EMCK: We don't have this kind of conversion technology.
TORRES: Our scans of your freighter show that you have plasma manifolds. The engineering principles are the same.
CHAKOTAY: We're not saying this won't take some effort. You're looking at several months of retrofitting, depending on the size of your fleet. All the schematics are here, and we'd be willing to work with you, get you started. We can even provide you with some converters.
EMCK: Ingenious design. Our engineers would be pleased. This would solve a lot of problems on my world. Unfortunately, it would also put me out of business.
CHAKOTAY: Sorry?
EMCK: Your technology would throw the waste export industry into chaos. Before long, I'd be obsolete. I came here hoping your claims were exaggerated, but I can see they're not. You can keep your solution.
TORRES: You lying
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna.
TORRES: We went through this whole song and dance and he never had any intention of working with us.
CHAKOTAY: That's not important. What matters is that we're talking now. We're proposing changes, some of them difficult, but progress can also bring new opportunities. Given time, this could turn to your advantage.
EMCK: I already have the advantage. The vortex. No one knows about it except me and my crew. By ejecting my cargo here I cut expenses in half. I won't sacrifice that.
TORRES: I guess mass murder doesn't factor into your profit margin.
EMCK: You care so much about these creatures, stay.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry you won't listen to reason, but don't expect us to walk away from this.
EMCK: You've scanned my vessel. You've seen my fire power. You wouldn't survive ten seconds in a conflict with me.
CHAKOTAY: Get him out of here.
EMCK: Pah!

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Options?
CHAKOTAY: We fight our way past them. Navigate the vortex on our own. Once we're on the other side we contact the Malon authorities and blow the whistle on Emck.
JANEWAY: We give them the reclamation technology, and continue on our way home.
CHAKOTAY: Exactly.
JANEWAY: Even if we did get through the vortex, there's no guarantee the Malon will do the right thing, if Mister Emck is any indication. As long as this vortex exists, the inhabitants of this region are at risk.
CHAKOTAY: Any chance we could destroy it?
JANEWAY: I believe so, but there's a catch. We'll have to collapse it from this end, where it's dimensional radius is weakest. We'd be closing our short-cut out of here.
CHAKOTAY: Two more years in the Void. I can live with that.
JANEWAY: But I'm not sure I can. Four years ago I destroyed the Caretaker's array to protect the Ocampa. That act of compassion stranded this crew in the Delta quadrant. I'm not about to give that order again.
CHAKOTAY: This situation is a little different.
JANEWAY: It's close enough. I'm asking this crew to make too big a sacrifice. I won't make that same mistake.
CHAKOTAY: If you have another option, I'm listening.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, there's no one I trust more than you. You're a fine First Officer. Are you ready to Captain this ship?
CHAKOTAY: Yes.
JANEWAY: Assemble the crew.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain on the bridge.
JANEWAY: At ease. Harry, how've you been?
KIM: Just find, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Good.
NEELIX: We've missed you, Captain.
JANEWAY: Likewise. I'll make this brief. Your orders are to proceed to the vortex. Use whatever means necessary to fight your way past the Malon freighter. I'll stay behind in a shuttlecraft and destroy the vortex. Tuvok, I'll need a class two shuttle armed with photon torpedoes. Tom, set a course for
TORRES: Forget it. We're not going to let you die out here.
JANEWAY: Have a little faith, B'Elanna. I'll have a shuttle, plenty of rations. I'll survive.
PARIS: Alone in the Delta quadrant? No offense, but
JANEWAY: I've made my decision.
KIM: What about us? Don't we have a say?
NEELIX: He's right, Captain. I'd be willing to brave this Void if it meant keeping you with us.
JANEWAY: Tom, set a course.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant, I gave you an order.
PARIS: I can't follow that order, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Harry, take the helm.
KIM: I'm sorry, Captain.
SEVEN: I will not comply.
EMH: What's a hologram to do?
TUVOK: As you can see, you're not the only one who's had time to evaluate the past.
JANEWAY: Yes, I can see that. You realize you could all be hanged for mutiny.? Looks like we need another option.
CHAKOTAY: We fire torpedoes the instant we cross the threshold. As the vortex begins to collapse, we jump into high warp.
JANEWAY: There'll be a massive shock wave on our tail.
TORRES: I'll reinforce the aft shielding.
JANEWAY: There's still one obstacle. The Malon.
TUVOK: Antimatter waste has weakened the bulkhead surrounding their cargo hold. A direct phaser strike should disable them.
EMH: Poetic justice.
TUVOK: Indeed.
JANEWAY: You realize it will reduce our chance of getting through.
SEVEN: Chance is irrelevant. We will succeed.
EMH: A vote of Borg confidence. Who could argue with that?
JANEWAY: All right. Back to your stations. Let's do it.
CHAKOTAY: Red alert. Set a course to the vortex. All hands to battle stations.
JANEWAY: You told them. They knew coming in.
CHAKOTAY: Let's just say I wouldn't be a fine First Officer if I hadn't.
JANEWAY: Return fire. Hit them with everything we've got.
TUVOK: Their shields are holding.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. This is Voyager. Stand down your weapons and fall back. I'll take that as a no.
CHAKOTAY: The vortex.
PARIS: Two million kilometers dead ahead.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering, we're approaching the vortex.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Bring the aft shielding online.
TORRES: Acknowledged. See you on the other side.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Status.
KIM: The port nacelle's been ruptured. We're venting plasma.
JANEWAY: Can you get us out of here on one engine, Tom?
PARIS: I think so.
TUVOK: Torpedoes armed and ready.
JANEWAY: On my order, Tuvok. We'll only get one shot at this.
SEVEN: They're firing spatial charges.
JANEWAY: Evade them.
SEVEN: Captain Proton to the rescue.
PARIS: I'll explain later.
TUVOK: The vortex is in visual range.
JANEWAY: Time to intercept?
PARIS: Forty seven seconds.
JANEWAY: Steady as she goes. Keep laying down fire.
KIM: Direct hit, starboard nacelle.
PARIS: Both engines are offline. We're running on inertia. One more hit and we're dead in the water.
CHAKOTAY: Without warp drive we'll never outrun the shockwave.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, can you reinforce the aft shields with our main deflector?
TUVOK: I believe so.
JANEWAY: Do it. We're going to ride that shockwave out of here. Let it push us to the other side.
TUVOK: Adjusting shield harmonics.
SEVEN: Captain. They intend to block our path.
PARIS: Twenty seconds.
CHAKOTAY: Prepare to fire.
TUVOK: That may not be necessary.
SEVEN: The freighter is moving to combat the aliens.
CHAKOTAY: They're trying to distract the Malon, give us the upper hand.
PARIS: Ten seconds!
TUVOK: The freighter's shields are weakening.
JANEWAY: Target their cargo hold. Time to take out the garbage.
PARIS: We're crossing the threshold.
JANEWAY: Torpedoes.
SEVEN: Shockwave approaching. Six hundred meters. Five hundred. Four.
TUVOK: Aft shields at maximum.
JANEWAY: All hands, brace for impact!
TUVOK: Pressure is building on the outer hull. Shields weakening.
PARIS: We're clear.
SEVEN: The vortex has been destroyed.
CHAKOTAY: Are we out of the Void?
KIM: Not yet. That little maneuver brought us up a bit short. We're still two hundred thousand kilometers from the boundary.
JANEWAY: On screen. Maintain course.
PARIS: There.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: I saw something. A star.
EMH: Remind me to check your eyesight.
JANEWAY: Harry, what do you see out there?
KIM: I see a densely packed region with thousands of star systems. It looks pretty lively.
JANEWAY: Full speed ahead.

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: Seven of Nine. How's my favorite Borg today?
SEVEN: Annoyed. In the future you will announce your presence before entering this room.
EMH: Sorry. I guess I should have knocked first.
SEVEN: Are we ready to leave?
EMH: Yes. According to sensors, spatial conditions are ripe. A spontaneous protonebula could emerge within the next twenty minutes. Mister Paris is expecting us.
EMH: Hmm. Not a bad looking hologram.

[Corridor]
EMH: This should be exciting, don't you think?
SEVEN: It's an astronomical survey, nothing more. What is your function on this mission?
EMH: My function is to study the nebula's effects on the crew. We may be dealing with new forms of radiation. I can't wait to see one of these clouds take shape. I hear they're quite beautiful. I brought along a holo-imaging device to take a few snapshots.
SEVEN: This isn't shore leave. There will be no time for recreational activities.
EMH: The Borg, party poopers of the galaxy. Tomorrow we'll start you on a new social exercise. Developing your joie de vivre.

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: Sorry about that. Just a little spatial turbulence. Nothing to worry about.
EMH: Hello there.
TORRES: I don't know about you, but I've got a case of class two claustrophobia.
PARIS: Ah, I remember it well.
SEVEN: Lieutenant?
TORRES: Oh, that's what Starfleet cadets used to call these class two shuttles. Fast, maneuverable, but not built for comfort.
PARIS: They used to shoehorn half a dozen cadets into one of these things for weeks at a time. You did not want to be around when they opened up that airlock.
SEVEN: Perhaps you should design a new shuttle. Larger, more efficient.
TORRES: Not a bad idea.
SEVEN: I'm reading plasma surges off the port bow.
TORRES: All stop. Keep our distance.
EMH: Seven, move over by the helm. I want to get a group shot.
SEVEN: I'm busy.
EMH: And smile, like I know you can.
TORRES: What was that?
SEVEN: Another plasma surge.
TORRES: It's massive! Tom, back us off. We're caught in the gravimetric shear!
PARIS: Engines are down.

[Bridge]
KIM: We're receiving a distress call from the away team.
TUVOK: They've been engulfed in the shearline of the nebula.
JANEWAY: Full impulse. Bridge to transporter room one. Standby for emergency beamout.

[Transporter room]
MULCHAEY: I've got a partial lock on them, but unless the shuttle clears that nebula.
CHAKOTAY: It won't. They've lost propulsion.
MULCHAEY: Then it's going to be a rough transport.
CHAKOTAY: Energize.
MULCHAEY: I'm having trouble separating their patterns.
CHAKOTAY: Reset the pattern buffers.
MULCHAEY: The signals are clearing.
CHAKOTAY: Is everyone all right?
EMH: My emitter. It's been damaged.
TORRES: I'll transfer your program back to Sickbay. Hang on.
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to transporter room one. Report.
TORRES: It looks like some of your emitter circuits were fused during transport.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Can you repair it?
TORRES (voiceover): Most likely. I'll need to run a diagnostic.
EMH: Most likely?

[Transporter room]
TORRES: Relax, Doctor. I'll keep you posted. Mulchaey.

[Science lab]
TORRES: Computer, run diagnostic routine alpha three six.
COMPUTER: Diagnostic in progress.
TORRES: First thing in the morning, I want you to check the results.
MULCHAEY: I'll be here bright and early.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. This protonebula seems to have a mind of its own. It's still expanding, with no end in sight. We're holding at a safe distance to monitor its growth.

[Torres' quarters]
EMH (screen): Rise and shine, Lieutenant. It's oh six hundred hours. Early bird gets the gagh!
TORRES: What do you want?
EMH (screen): Good morning would be nice, but I'd settle for my mobile emitter. Do we have an ETA on those repairs?
TORRES: Go away.
EMH (screen): Can't you at least give me a prognosis?
TORRES: The one day I get to sleep in.
EMH (screen): You're worried about a few more seconds of unconsciousness? My freedom is at stake!
TORRES: Computer, activate sonic shower.
EMH (screen): One more thing, Lieutenant. I was thinking
TORRES: Hey!
EMH (screen): I'm a doctor, not a peeping Tom. It's nothing I haven't seen before. I was thinking

[Doctor's office]
EMH: If you brought the emitter to Sickbay we could work on it together. I've prepared a. Hello? B'Elanna?

[Cargo Bay two]
COMPUTER: Regeneration cycle incomplete.

[Bridge]
KIM: Commander. How'd you sleep?
CHAKOTAY: Well enough. What's new?
KIM: That nebula's expanding at a rate of eight thousand cubic kilometers per hour. I've had to adjust course eleven times.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds like you're enjoying the big chair.
KIM: It's not a bad way to spend the night.
CHAKOTAY: I hear you've been doing a fine job. The crew's impressed. Is it true you make them call you Captain Kim?
KIM: Sir?
CHAKOTAY: Good morning.
SEVEN: That remains to be seen.
CHAKOTAY: Problem?
SEVEN: The proximity transceiver in my cranial implant has been activated. That could indicate a Borg presence nearby.
CHAKOTAY: Harry?
KIM: I've been running sensor sweeps all night. I haven't seen anything.
SEVEN: Perhaps the nebula is masking a vessel.
KIM: No, not a chance. A ship wouldn't last ten seconds in there. Not even a Borg cube.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe it's a false alarm. Your transceiver could be malfunctioning.
SEVEN: It is possible.
CHAKOTAY: Why don't you pay a visit to Sickbay. In the meantime we'll redouble our scans, just to be sure.
SEVEN: Very well.
KIM: I'll get the scans underway.
CHAKOTAY: If you don't mind being an Ensign again.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Seven?
SEVEN: My proximity transceiver activated again.

[Bridge]
KIM: Looks like someone's rerouting power from the warp conduits.
CHAKOTAY: To where?
KIM: Deck eight, section twenty two. The science lab.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to science lab. Ensign Mulchaey, respond. Harry.
KIM: Sensors are being deflected by some kind of forcefield. Commander, the forcefield has a Borg signature.
CHAKOTAY: Red alert. Captain to the bridge. Tuvok, take a security team to the science lab. Chakotay to Seven of Nine, looks like you were right.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We've detected Borg on the ship. Deck eight, science lab.
SEVEN: How many drones?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Unknown, Tuvok's headed there now.
SEVEN: I will join him.
EMH: The science lab? My mobile emitter's in there.

[Science lab]
SEVEN: This technology resembles a Borg maturation chamber, but many of the components are unfamiliar.
CREWMAN: Commander.
SEVEN: He was punctured by an extraction tubule. It removed a tissue sample. There are residual nanoprobes surrounding the wound. Their encoding sequences are identical to my own.
TUVOK: Your nanoprobes? How?
SEVEN: I don't know.
TUVOK: Take him to Sickbay.
TUVOK: What are you doing?
SEVEN: I will be recognized as Borg.
SEVEN: A drone, but unlike any I've ever seen.
TUVOK: It appears to be in the fetal stage.
SEVEN: I don't understand. The Borg assimilate. They do not reproduce in this fashion.
JANEWAY: Where did it come from?
SEVEN: I believe it was created here in the science lab. When the away team beamed back to Voyager there was a transporter malfunction. Our patterns merged briefly. It is possible that some of my nanoprobes infected the Doctor's mobile emitter.
TUVOK: They began to assimilate?
SEVEN: Yes.
SEVEN: Nanoprobes are encoded to utilize any technology they encounter. Once it assimilated the emitter, it began to transform this diagnostic station. When Ensign Mulchaey entered the room, they sampled his DNA.
JANEWAY: Using his genetic code as a template to create a lifeform.
TUVOK: The drone has increased in mass by seventeen percent.
SEVEN: Its maturation rate is twenty five times that of a conventional Borg.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, erect a level ten forcefield around this section. Post round the clock security.
TUVOK: You intend to let it mature?
JANEWAY: The alternative is to pull the plug, and I'm not prepared to do that. Not unless I have to. Resume your analysis. I want to know exactly what we're dealing with here. Or should I say whom?
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I've adapted the Astrometrics sensors to penetrate the Borg forcefield.
TORRES: I thought you said this thing was a fetus.
SEVEN: An hour ago it was. The drone has entered the fourth phase of gestation. In human terms, it is a child of six years.
EMH (screen): You mean a boy of six years. From what I can tell the drone is male. Seven, route your sensor data to Sickbay. I want to run a few medical scans.
SEVEN: Stand by.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Well, he appears to be human for the most part. Borg implants comprise approximately

[Astrometrics lab]
EMH (voiceover): Twenty seven percent of his body.
TUVOK: Curious. His body plating is composed of polydeutonic alloy
EMH (screen): Just like my mobile emitter.
SEVEN: The nanoprobes must have extrapolated that technology. It could explain his unique design.
TORRES: Wait a minute. The Doctor's emitter came from the twenty ninth century. It's five hundred years more advanced that anything we've got.
TUVOK: It is logical to assume this drone will be equally advanced.
TORRES: A twenty ninth century Borg.
TUVOK: In essence.
EMH (screen): I've located my mobile emitter. It's embedded in his cerebral cortex.
SEVEN: The emitter has been adapted to serve as part of his central nervous system. It controls all autonomic functions.
EMH: That means we can't remove it. Not without killing the drone.
TUVOK: Has it contacted the Borg Collective?
SEVEN: No. I have dampened it's proximity transceiver.
TORRES: For now. What about when it grows up?

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Reactive body armor? Multidimensional adaptability? Internal transporter nodes?
SEVEN: The drone possesses superior technology. It will fully mature in less than two hours. However, its Borg shielding is not yet active. We can still terminate it, but we must act quickly.
JANEWAY: Hold on a minute, Seven. I want some answers first. What normally happens when a drone disengages from the maturation chamber?
SEVEN: It awaits instructions from the Collective.
JANEWAY: So without those instructions, it has no designation, right? No purpose.
SEVEN: Correct.
JANEWAY: If we can keep him from interfacing with the Collective, maybe we can give him a purpose.
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: This is the most advanced drone ever to exist. We could teach him our values, Seven. We could show him what it means to be an individual.
SEVEN: If we fail, if the drone were to be assimilated the Collective would become far more powerful.
JANEWAY: What I'm proposing is the only defense we have against that possibility, short of murder, and that's an order I'd prefer not to give. As I recall, Seven, there were a few crew members who had similar doubts about you.
SEVEN: The situation is different.
JANEWAY: Is it? A Borg, disconnected from the Collective, unsure of its identity? A potential threat, but we succeeded. We're going to pull the same trick again, only this time you're going to be the teacher.
SEVEN: I am to instruct the drone in the ways of humanity.
JANEWAY: Think of it as first contact, and you are our ambassador.

[Science lab]
SEVEN: Maturation cycle is complete.
ONE: We are Borg. State our designation.
SEVEN: Designation is irrelevant. You are not part of the Collective. You are an individual. You will receive your instructions from me.
ONE: Insufficient.
SEVEN: You must comply.
ONE: Insufficient. We are Borg.
SEVEN: My designation is Seven of Nine, tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix zero one. You may call me Seven of Nine.
ONE: Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: You will comply with my commands.
ONE: Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Yes. We are not Borg. We are individuals. Do you understand?
ONE: State our designation.
TUVOK: Apparently not.
SEVEN: The drone's responses are programmed. It doesn't understand what I'm saying. I must initiate a direct neural interface.
TUVOK: Are you sure that's wise?
SEVEN: There is no other way for me to communicate with it.
TUVOK: Proceed.
SEVEN: You will not be harmed. Resistance is futile.
SEVEN: I am providing it with instructions. It understands.
SEVEN: The drone is probing my neural pathways. It is trying to assimilate all of my knowledge. I cannot disengage the link.
SEVEN: Terminate interface! You must comply. You are hurting me.
ONE: I will comply. Daily log, Seven of Nine. I've activated the drone's linguistic database. It is now capable of assimilating information. A direct neural link is too dangerous, so I've decided to use Borg datanodes.

[Engineering]
NEELIX: Special delivery. Two Borg datanodes.
TORRES: More? Link them to the dataport. How many Borg hitchhikers are we going to pick up on this trip? Maybe this is the Collective's new strategy. They don't assimilate anymore, they just show up and look helpless.
NEELIX: Now, B'Elanna.
TORRES: We don't know what this drone will turn into. It's gone from infant to adult in one day.
NEELIX: It will become what we help it to become.
TORRES: How Starfleet of you.
SEVEN (voiceover): Seven of Nine to Neelix.
NEELIX: Neelix here.
SEVEN (voiceover): Report to the Science lab immediately. Bring the first datanode.
NEELIX: On my way.

[Science lab]
ONE: We are Borg. State our designation.
SEVEN: We've complied information into this datanode for you to assimilate.
ONE: We do not understand.
SEVEN: You will, but first you must assimilate this data. Come here. Comply! Give me your arm. Inject the datanode with an assimilation tubule. This access port.
ONE: We do not understand.
ONE: Your designation is Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Yes.
ONE: Your designation is Neelix, Talaxian.
NEELIX: That's me.
ONE: This is a laboratory on a vessel.
NEELIX: The Starship Voyager.
ONE: I am traveling through interstellar space.
SEVEN: Yes.
ONE: Why?
SEVEN: This is a ship of exploration.
ONE: I am an explorer.
NEELIX: We all are.
ONE: We are Borg.
NEELIX: Well, no.
SEVEN: You are a unique individual. One of many on Voyager. This is not a Borg Collective. Do you understand?
ONE: Individual. My thoughts are my own.
SEVEN: Precisely.
ONE: I wish to assimilate more information.
SEVEN: Not yet. Your neural pathways require time to process the information. You will need to regenerate soon. I will adapt one of the alcoves in our Cargo Bay to your technology. Take the drone to the Doctor for medical analysis. Go with him.
SEVEN: All members of this crew must report to the Sickbay for evaluation. When I am finished here, I will join you.

[Corridor]
ONE: Duranium hull. Plasma based power distribution. Tricylic life support systems. Artificial gravity plating.
NEELIX: Right on all counts. Systems analysis appears to be your forte. You should think about a future in Starship Operations.
ONE: Human, female.
NEELIX: Very good.
ONE: She was frightened by me.
NEELIX: Why do you say that?
ONE: I detected an elevation in her pheromonal response.
NEELIX: Well, you're new around here. An unfamiliar face takes some getting used to. I remember when I first came aboard Voyager. I provoked a few strange reactions myself. I still do from time to time. I mean, just look at me. Whiskers and spots.
ONE: Were people afraid of you as well?
NEELIX: Well, no.
ONE: Do they fear me because I am Borg?
NEELIX: Sometimes Borg can be a little intimidating. Don't take it personally.
ONE: I want to know more about the Collective.
NEELIX: You do? Well, of course you do.
ONE: Tell me about the Borg.
NEELIX: Oh, what's to tell? You've seen one cybernetically enhanced species, you've seen them all. You'll have plenty of time to learn all about them but first, you have to give yourself a chance to adapt to life here on Voyager. Now Mister, gosh, I'm sorry. In all the excitement, I forgot your name.
ONE: I do not have a name.
NEELIX: Every individual needs a name. We can't just run around calling you the drone. That's not very interesting, is it?
ONE: Seven of Nine tells me my designation is irrelevant.
NEELIX: I disagree. You should choose a name for yourself. Something that defines who you are. After all, there's only one of you.
ONE: One.
NEELIX: Oh, here we are. Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Good morning.
ONE: You are the Emergency Medical Hologram.
EMH: And you are very observant. Step this way, please.
NEELIX: I have to get back to the Mess hall. There's nothing to worry about. The Doctor is going to do a few scans. You'll be finished before you know it.
ONE: I will comply.
EMH: It's a non-invasive biomedical scan. You won't feel a thing. Your central nervous system is functioning normally but I'm picking up some degradation in your neural pathways. You'll need to regenerate soon.
ONE: My central nervous system is regulated by your mobile emitter.
EMH: That's right.
ONE: Your mobile emitter is more advanced than these diagnostic tools.
EMH: Far more advanced. It's technology that came from the twenty ninth century, four hundred years in the future.
ONE: I am an advanced form of life.
EMH: Yes.
ONE: I am unique.
EMH: Mmm hmm.
ONE: Describe my origins.
EMH: Oh, it's a long story.
ONE: I wish to hear it.
EMH: Another time.
ONE: I wish to hear the story. Now.
EMH: In a nutshell, there was a transporter malfunction. My emitter fused with several of Seven of Nine's nanoprobes.
ONE: I was an accident.
EMH: Call it a random convergence of technologies.
ONE: Am I unwelcome here?
EMH: On the contrary. Our primary mission is to explore new forms of life. You may have been unexpected but, given time, I am sure you'll make a fine addition to the crew. After all, you've got my mobile emitter driving your neocortex, so you're bound to make a dazzling impression. That's called a joke.
ONE: Joke. A verbal comment or gesture designed to provoke laughter.
EMH: I see you've got your mother's sense of humor.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: Deck eleven, section thirty two, main Engineering. That is the
ONE: Warp core. Fuelled by a matter - antimatter reaction which produces a maximum output of four thousand terradynes per second, providing power for faster than light propulsion.
SEVEN: Correct.
TORRES: This isn't a classroom, Seven.
SEVEN: Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres, Chief Engineer. Klingon human hybrid. She possesses extensive knowledge of this vessel's systems as well as a volatile temperament.
ONE: Volatile. English adjective meaning readily vaporisable at low temperature. Easily aroused. Tending to violent eruption.
TORRES: Very good. You get a gold star.
SEVEN: Our presence here is authorized. The Captain asked me to familiarize the drone with Voyager.
TORRES: Well, how about familiarizing him with the Airponics bay. I have got one hour to come up with a way to predict the expansion rate of this protonebula or Janeway's going to pull the plug on the entire survey. Do you mind?
ONE: If you apply a multispatial algorithm it will accurately predict the rate of expansion. I can demonstrate.
TORRES: All right.
TORRES: Amazing.

[Ready room]
ONE: Greetings. Our designation, my designation is One. How are you today?
JANEWAY: I'm just fine, thank you. One?
SEVEN: He requested a designation. One seemed appropriate.
JANEWAY: And how are you today, One?
ONE: Well. Thank you, Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Adapting to life on Voyager?
ONE: Yes. To date I've assimilated forty seven billion terraquads of information on a vast variety of subjects, including particle physics, comparative humanoid anatomy, warp field theory, and the culinary delights of the Delta quadrant.
SEVEN: Mister Neelix. They've been spending time together.
ONE: Is your assessment of me complete? Am I sufficient?
JANEWAY: Why, yes. More than sufficient. In fact, I'd say you were making excellent progress. And this isn't an assessment, One. I simply wanted to meet you.
ONE: With your permission, I would like to be excused. I've agreed to assist Lieutenant Torres. She wishes to increase the efficiency of the Bussard collectors.
JANEWAY: Permission granted.
JANEWAY: You've done a remarkable job.
SEVEN: Thank you.
JANEWAY: Not only has he absorbed an incredible amount of knowledge in a matter of days, but he seems to be fitting in with the crew and developing a distinct personality.
SEVEN: He is adapting quickly.
JANEWAY: Then why do I get the feeling something's bothering you.
SEVEN: He's been expressing curiosity about the Borg.
JANEWAY: Ah. And you're worried that if he learns about them he may be drawn to the Collective.
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: Maybe we should tell him what he wants to know. I'd rather he learned about the Borg from us than the Collective.
SEVEN: The lure of perfection is powerful, Captain. He may be tempted to seek out the Borg. That would pose a grave tactical risk.
JANEWAY: Well, we can delay telling him for now, but keep in mind the drone is becoming an individual. Seven, he has the right to know. Sooner or later, we'll have to answer his questions.

[Cargo Bay two]
ONE: Deck eight, section four. Cargo Bay two. Used for the storage of spare components and surplus materials.
SEVEN: It is also where I regenerate. You will reside here with me.
ONE: I wish to assimilate more information.
SEVEN: You have assimilated enough for one day. You've also provided invaluable assistance to the Voyager crew. You have exceeded expectations.
ONE: Then expectations were insufficient.
SEVEN: A simple thank you would suffice.
ONE: Thank you?
SEVEN: A customary expression of gratitude. I paid you a compliment. We must regenerate.
ONE: This technology does not conform with Starfleet parameters.
SEVEN: Correct.
ONE: I am Borg. This technology is Borg.
SEVEN: We must regenerate.
ONE: I wish to assimilate all available data pertaining to the Borg.
SEVEN: Step into the alcove. No, you must face outward. Computer, activate regeneration cycle. Alcoves beta and gamma.
ONE: Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Yes.
ONE: Thank you.
SEVEN: We must regenerate.

[Borg Sphere]
BORG: A Borg proximity signal has been detected. Origin, Unimatrix three two five, grid zero zero six. Alter course to intercept.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: The drone transmitted a Borg proximity signal. Wake him.
SEVEN: You contacted the Collective.
ONE: No.
JANEWAY: Check his transceiver.
ONE: You deactivated my transceiver two days ago.
SEVEN: It appears your cranial implants have adapted and created a secondary transceiver.
JANEWAY: A Borg fail-safe device.
SEVEN: Precisely. Have you detected any vessels?
TUVOK: Long range sensors picked up a transwarp conduit. A ship is approaching.
SEVEN: Time to intercept?
TUVOK: Approximately three hours.
ONE: The Borg?
SEVEN: Yes.
ONE: I wish to meet them.
JANEWAY: Seven. I think it's time we showed our drone what the Borg are all about.

[Astrometrics lab]
ONE: The Borg have assimilated thousands of species.
SEVEN: Correct.
ONE: What becomes of those species?
SEVEN: Their neural pathways are restructured and linked to a single collective mind, the Hive. Their bodies are augmented with cybernetic technology. They become drones.
ONE: I wish to experience the hive mind.
JANEWAY: If you did that, you'd no longer be unique. The Borg would destroy your individuality.
ONE: And that is undesirable?
JANEWAY: Very. The Borg are the most destructive force we've ever encountered. They've assimilated billions of individuals against their will.
ONE: You were assimilated.
SEVEN: My link to the Collective was severed.
ONE: When you were in the Collective you assimilated others.
SEVEN: Yes.
ONE: You call the Borg destructive. Seven of Nine is not.
JANEWAY: That's because she's regained her individuality. If the Borg had the chance, they'd take it away from her again. They'd assimilate everyone on Voyager. With your advanced technology, the Collective would become even more destructive. We have to prevent that from happening but we can't do it without you. We need your abilities to enhance our defenses, shields, weapons. Will you help us resist them?
ONE: Seven of Nine, do you wish to rejoin the Collective?
SEVEN: Voyager is my Collective.
ONE: I will need time to assimilate this information.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): All hands to battle stations. A Borg vessel is approaching.
JANEWAY: We just ran out of time.

[Corridor]
ONE: Seven of Nine, I'm detecting irregularities in my autonomic nervous system. Cardiovascular excitation, vaeso-constriction.
SEVEN: You are experiencing an emotion. Anxiety. It is only temporary.
ONE: Anxiety. A state of apprehension caused by fear.
SEVEN: The Borg usually elicit this response in others.
ONE: Are you experiencing anxiety as well?
SEVEN: Yes, along with every crew member on Voyager.
ONE: Because they fear assimilation?
SEVEN: Correct. We are needed on the bridge.

[Turbolift]
SEVEN: Deck one.
ONE: Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Yes.
ONE: What will happen now?
SEVEN: We will engage the Borg.
ONE: Will Voyager be destroyed?
SEVEN: The Borg are powerful, but Captain Janeway is a resourceful leader. We will resist.
ONE: Resistance is futile.
SEVEN: Perhaps.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: The Borg vessel's moving into range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
ONE: Long-range tactical vessel. Transwarp capability. Ablative hull armor.
KIM: We're being scanned.
SEVEN: They're preparing to attack. You must help us enhance our shields. This station will give you access to the shield generators.
TUVOK: They are hailing us.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
BORG (voiceover): We are the Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
ONE: I can hear them in my mind.
TUVOK: They've locked on a tractor beam.
ONE: The Collective is calling to me.
SEVEN: I hear it too. Billions of voices speaking as one. We must resist that voice. The crew of Voyager will be destroyed if we don't.
TUVOK: Our shields are remodulating.
PARIS: We've broken free.
JANEWAY: Can you enhance our phasers?
ONE: Yes.
JANEWAY: Do it. When he's finished, target their propulsion system. Be prepared to jump to warp, Mister Paris.
ONE: Enhancements complete. You may fire.
CHAKOTAY: What happened?
SEVEN: They inverted our phaser beam with a feedback pulse.
PARIS: They just took out our warp drive.
ONE: Your technology is limited. I cannot enhance it further. I must interface with the Collective. I can disrupt their vessel from within.
SEVEN: They will try to assimilate you.
ONE: They will fail.
JANEWAY: Harry, lock on to the drone.
ONE: That won't be necessary.
TUVOK: He's inside the sphere.

[Borg Sphere]
BORG: We are the Borg. You will be assimilated.
ONE: My technology is superior. Stop your attack or I will destroy you.
BORG: Your technological distinctiveness will be added to our own. Resistance is futile.

[Bridge]
KIM: Shields down to twenty nine percent!
SEVEN: He's accessing their navigational controls.
PARIS: It's heading directly for the nebula.
SEVEN: If they get too close, their hull will collapse.

[Borg Sphere]
BORG: Terminate your interface.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Stand down red alert. Tuvok, secure all stations. Organize damage control teams, Chakotay.
KIM: Captain, I'm reading a lifesign in the debris. It's the drone. He survived.
SEVEN: He's erected a multispatial force field around his body, but it is weakening.
JANEWAY: Get a lock on him. Beam him to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: Damage?
EMH: Several of his implants were fused in the explosion, but they're regenerating. His biological systems are a different story. Severe trauma to the cerebral cortex, internal bleeding. He needs immediate surgery.
ONE: The sphere?
SEVEN: Destroyed. You were successful.
ONE: While I was linked to the Borg I could hear their thoughts, their objectives. They are aware of my existence. They will pursue me.
SEVEN: Irrelevant. They will fail.
EMH: I need to get started.
ONE: No. I should not exist. I was an accident. A random convergence of technologies.
SEVEN: You are unique.
ONE: I was never meant to be. As long as I exist, you are in danger. All life on Voyager is in danger.
EMH: We can talk about this later.
SEVEN: Allow the Doctor to proceed. Lower the forcefield!
EMH: His synapses are failing.
SEVEN: You must comply.
ONE: I will not.
SEVEN: You must comply. Please. You are hurting me.
ONE: You will adapt.
EMH: I'm sorry.

[Holodeck - shuttlecraft]
TORRES: Higher.
PILOT: Lieutenant, we're already at two hundred thousand meters. You could thermalise at this altitude.
TORRES: I said higher.
PILOT: We're at three hundred thousand meters.
TORRES: Level us off. Computer, disengage safety protocols.
COMPUTER: Warning. Disengaging safety protocols presents extreme risk of injury.
TORRES: Override.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Safety protocols have been disengaged.
TORRES: Drop the forcefield on my mark.
PILOT: Aye.
TORRES: Mark.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Bridge to Torres.
TORRES: I don't believe it.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Report to Engineering on the double.
TORRES: Computer, end program.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: I was not aware that protective attire was required for this mission.
TORRES: I was on the holodeck, orbital skydiving.
SEVEN: Leaping from a spacecraft at exospheric altitudes, a curious form of recreation. The probe is ready for launch, however there is still a problem with the telemetry link. Lieutenant. Is something wrong?
TORRES: Actually, I'm not feeling so well. Can you handle the launch without me?
SEVEN: You are putting me in charge?
TORRES: Problem?
SEVEN: No. Just unexpected. Shall I inform the Doctor you're ill?
TORRES: No. Don't.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, someone's locked onto our probe with a tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like a Malon freighter.
PARIS: I had a feeling we hadn't seen the last of them.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Starship Voyager to the Malon vessel. That probe belongs to us. Release it immediately.
KIM: No response.
JANEWAY: Tom, how fast can you get us there?
PARIS: Two hours at least.
JANEWAY: They'll be long gone.
TUVOK: If we instruct the probe to emit a polaron burst it could disrupt the tractor beam.
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: The beam has been disabled.
JANEWAY: Harry, redirect the probe's course.
TUVOK: The Malon are in pursuit.
PARIS: That probe can't outrun them.
JANEWAY: No, but we might be able to hide it from them.
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY: The probe surveyed a class six gas giant this morning. I think we should send it back for a closer look.
KIM: You're going to steer the probe into a gas giant.
TUVOK: Captain, the atmospheric pressure will crush it.
JANEWAY: Not if the Borg shielding does its job. Hail them again.
KIM: No response.
JANEWAY: Voyager to Malon vessel. Break off your pursuit.
TUVOK: The probe is entering the giant's upper atmosphere, and the Malon vessel is following it in.

[Briefing room]
KIM: The probe's stuck in a deep layer of liquid hydrogen and methane about ten thousand kilometers below the outer atmosphere. It's not responding to commands.
JANEWAY: Any good news?
SEVEN: It's still intact. It can be repaired,
CHAKOTAY: If we can get it out of there.
TORRES: Sorry I'm late.
CHAKOTAY: We were just discussing how to retrieve the probe. Is there any possibility of transporting it out?
TORRES: No.
CHAKOTAY: Just no.
TORRES: I don't see how we could get close enough.
CHAKOTAY: Is there any way to boost transporter range?
TORRES: Not in that kind of atmosphere.
PARIS: Well, if we can't transport it out, we'll just have to fly in and grab it.
TUVOK: Perhaps you weren't paying attention when the Malon freighter imploded.
PARIS: We won't be going in a Malon freighter, Tuvok. We'll be going in our new shuttlecraft.
KIM: Here we go again.
PARIS: Let's face it, Class-two shuttles just don't cut it in the Delta quadrant. We've needed something bigger and better since we got here. It's time we built it!
CHAKOTAY: Tom, we've been through this I don't know how many times. We all appreciate your enthusiasm.
KIM: Speak for yourself, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Bottom line, we don't have time to design and build a ship from scratch.
PARIS: I knew you were going to say that so I've given us a head start.
PARIS: Behold the Delta Flyer. Ultra-aerodynamic contours, retractable nacelles, parametallic hull plating, unimatrix shielding based on Tuvok's brilliant design for the multispatial probe, and a Borg-inspired weapons system.
SEVEN: Basic design elements are adequate.
PARIS: High praise.
KIM: If we used isomagnetic EPS conduits in the plasma manifold, we could maximize the power distribution.
PARIS: That's the spirit, Harry.
TUVOK: My shield designs could be successfully applied to a vessel of this size.
PARIS: Big of you to admit it, Tuvok.
CHAKOTAY: And you think it'll be able to withstand the gas giant's atmosphere.
PARIS: The probe did.
JANEWAY: I'm impressed, but how quickly can it be built?
PARIS: We could replicate the alloys and the new design components, use spare parts from storage. If we worked around the clock we could have it up and running inside a week.
KIM: I'm willing to put in as much overtime as it takes.
SEVEN: I will forego regeneration for the duration of the project.
PARIS: What about you, B'Elanna? Building a new vessel from scratch, that's an engineer's dream come true.
PARIS: What do you say, Captain?
JANEWAY: Why are you all standing around?

[Holodeck]
PARIS: Computer, add dynametric tail fins to the nacelles.
TUVOK: Computer, delete dynametric tail fins.
PARIS: What'd you do that for?
TUVOK: We are not designing a hot rod, Lieutenant.
PARIS: That is exactly what we're designing. A twenty fourth century, warp-powered, ultra-responsive hot rod.
TUVOK: Your embellishments are purely decorative. They serve no practical purpose.
PARIS: I beg to differ. If we make this thing look mean enough, other ships are going to think twice before taking us on.
SEVEN: I suggest we return our attention to the matter of structural integrity.
TUVOK: Agreed.
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres' hull design is flawed. We should be using tetraburnium alloys instead of titanium.
KIM: Er, B'Elanna?
TORRES: Sounds fine to me. I'm going to finish up the thruster specs.

[Paris's quarters]
PARIS: It's open.
PARIS: Hey.
TORRES: Thruster specs.
PARIS: Thanks. Where're you running off to?
TORRES: My quarters.
PARIS: Stay a while. I'll replicate some dinner, a bottle of burgundy. We deserve a break, don't you think?
TORRES: Not tonight.
PARIS: B'Elanna, what's going on?
TORRES: Nothing.
PARIS: Well, then how come it's impossible to have a conversation with you?
TORRES: I'm sorry.
PARIS: I don't want an apology. I want an explanation.
TORRES: Tom, I'm tired.
PARIS: Asleep is more like it. You hardly said three words in that last meeting. And then when Seven changed your design you acted like, like you didn't care.
TORRES: I guess I didn't.
PARIS: I don't get it. How many times have we talked about how great it would be to do what we're doing now? To really collaborate my piloting skills and your engineering expertise. We finally get the chance to create something together from the ground up and you're not the slightest bit enthusiastic?
TORRES: I'm doing my job, aren't I? I delivered the thruster specs on schedule.
PARIS: B'Elanna, I'm not your boss. I'm not questioning your productivity or keeping tabs on how many hours you put in. I just want to know what's going on.
TORRES: I have to go.

[Corridor]
TORRES: Computer, activate holodeck program Torres two one six.
COMPUTER: The program is active.
TORRES: Disengage safety protocols.
COMPUTER: Warning. Disengaging safety protocols presents extreme risk of injury.
TORRES: Override.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Safety protocols have been disengaged.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Ensign, put us into a high orbit. I want to stay well above that ionospheric turbulence.
ENSIGN: Aye, ma'am.
JANEWAY: There's the probe. Ten thousand kilometers beneath all that methane, but still intact.
CHAKOTAY: We're not alone. I'm reading massive theta radiation. It's being dumped by a Malon freighter approaching from the far side of the planet. They're hailing.
JANEWAY: They're more talkative than the last ones. Open a channel.
KIM: Aye, sir.
VRELK (screen): Leave orbit of this planet now.
JANEWAY: I don't believe we've been introduced. I'm Captain Janeway.
VRELK (screen): I know exactly who you are. You are the person responsible for the destruction of one of our freighters and the deaths of nine Malon citizens.
JANEWAY: I'm very sorry that lives were lost, but you're leaving out an important detail. Your people were trying to steal a probe from us. We warned them to stay away from the gas giant but they didn't listen.
VRELK (screen): I'm taking your probe as compensation for our losses.
CHAKOTAY: That's going to be a little difficult. It's stuck beneath the atmosphere of the same gas giant that crushed your other ship.
VRELK (screen): My people are expert at salvage operations.
JANEWAY: Well, Mister.
VRELK (screen): Vrelk. Controller Vrelk.
JANEWAY: Vrelk. We have a little expertise of our own. We're a very determined crew. So my suggestion is that you leave orbit and in the future, if you come across anything that bears the insignia of the U.S.S. Voyager, head in the other direction.
VRELK (screen): You are making a serious error.
JANEWAY: End transmission. Why would people in the business of toxic waste disposal be so anxious to get hold of a probe?
CHAKOTAY: It's not just any probe. It's multispatial technology. Maybe they think it'll help them find new places to dump their garbage.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: B'Elanna! What a nice surprise. I was just getting ready to close. Business has been slow with so many people busy on the new shuttle.
TORRES: Oh. I was just hoping we could catch up.
NEELIX: You want to catch up? With me?
TORRES: If you have the time.
NEELIX: Are you kidding? Yeah. Can I get you something? Name your poison.
TORRES: Oh. Er.
NEELIX: Come on, B'Elanna! I handed that one to you on a silver platter.
TORRES: Huh?
NEELIX: Name your poison? I was expecting one of those scathing but affectionate insults you always make about my cooking.
TORRES: Sorry.
NEELIX: You'll feel wittier on a full stomach. So, what'll it be?
TORRES: Actually, I was hoping for banana pancakes.
NEELIX: I don't think I ever heard of banana pancakes before.
TORRES: My grandmother used to make them for me when I was a kid. It's always put a smile on my face.
NEELIX: Well then, one smile coming right up.
NEELIX: Computer, one stack of banana pancakes. Smells delicious.
TORRES: Thanks. So how have you been?
NEELIX: Oh, just great. My security training is going really well. Tuvok told me the other day that I'm, er, not completely inept. Aren't you going to try them?
TORRES: Sure.
NEELIX: Well?
TORRES: Delicious. I have to get back to work.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What are they still doing here?
CHAKOTAY: Apparently, they're not willing to give up on the probe so easily.
JANEWAY: The question is, how do they expect to get their hands on it?
TUVOK: It's reasonable to assume they're waiting for us to retrieve the probe, at which time they'll attempt to steal it again.
JANEWAY: Maybe, but they have to know we're prepared for that. If they were planning to fight you'd think they'd call in reinforcements, try to out-gun us.
CHAKOTAY: Sensors don't show any other Malon ships in the area.
SEVEN (voiceover): Seven of Nine to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway here.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Report to the Astrometrics lab. I have important information regarding the Malon

[Bridge]
SEVEN (voiceover): vessel.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: What have you got?
SEVEN: I've been using coherent neutrino beams to document activity aboard the Malon freighter.
JANEWAY: In other words, you've been spying on them.
SEVEN: I've made a troubling discovery. This is a polythermal image of an interior section of the alien ship. The shaded figures you see are Malon crew members.
TUVOK: That appears to be a small ship.
SEVEN: Correct. The Malon are constructing a spacecraft composed of tetraburnium alloys.
TUVOK: Theoretically, such a ship would be capable of withstanding extreme atmospheric pressures.
JANEWAY: I'll be damned. They're going after the probe themselves.
SEVEN: That's not all, Captain. According to my projections, they will finish construction of their vessel at least thirty six hours before we finish ours.
JANEWAY: Well then, I'd say we've got an old-fashioned space race on our hands.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We've stepped up the pace of construction in order to finish our shuttle before the Malon finish theirs. According to Seven's most recent intelligence we've gained some ground over the last twenty four hours , putting us in a virtual dead heat with our competitors.

[Delta Flyer]
KIM: I keep telling you, we've got to reinforce the hull with kellinite. That's all there is to it.
TUVOK: Proposing the same flawed strategy over and over again will not me it more effective, Ensign.
KIM: Well, we've got to come up with something or we'll never get this thing off the ground.
TORRES: Vorik, turn that damn thing off. I can't hear myself think.
VORIK: Sorry, sir.
PARIS: Look, we could spend weeks trying to solve this, but we've got a ticking clock. Engines are working, weapons systems are online. I say we launch now and hope for the best.
TUVOK: Mister Paris, that is perhaps the most illogical statement you've ever made. Unless we find a way to reconfigure the structural integrity field the hull will incur microfractures during descent.
PARIS: Microfractures, Tuvok. Doesn't necessarily mean we'll have a hull breach.
TUVOK: And if we do, I suppose these useless design elements from your Captain Proton scenario will compensate for the problem.
PARIS: Hey, every one of these knobs and levers is fully functional.
TUVOK: And completely superfluous.
PARIS: Maybe to you. I am tired of tapping panels. For once, I want controls that let me actually feel the ship I'm piloting.
KIM: Where are you going?
TORRES: Holodeck.
KIM: What for?
TORRES: To find out if this microfracture problem is a fatal flaw.

[Holodeck - Delta Flyer]
TORRES: Computer, activate immersion shielding.
COMPUTER: Immersion shielding activated.
TORRES: Commence descent sequence.
COMPUTER: Range to probe, thirty thousand kilometers. Twenty five thousand. Warning. Atmospheric pressure is exceeding tolerance levels. Rapid ascent recommended.
TORRES: Continue descent.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Range to probe, ten thousand kilometers.
TORRES: Disengage safety protocols.
COMPUTER: Warning. Disengaging safety protocols presents extreme risk of injury.
TORRES: Override.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Safety protocols have been disengaged. Warning. Atmospheric pressure is exceeding tolerance levels.
TORRES: Reroute power from secondary systems to structural integrity.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Microfractures are present in zones one and four.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: The Malon are venting a theta radiation cloud. Our shields are down to eighty nine percent.
JANEWAY: Ensign, back us off.
CHAKOTAY: Vrelk is hailing.
JANEWAY: On screen.
VRELK (screen): That was rude, wasn't it, but we still have quite a bit of antimatter waste to expel. I hope we didn't damage your shields,
JANEWAY: Our shields are fine.
VRELK (screen): Mmm. Well, we only ejected a small amount of waste this time. We still have much, much more to get rid of. Your shields may not be able to stand even higher levels of theta radiation.
JANEWAY: I've already told you we're not going anywhere.
VRELK (screen): Let's stop playing these games, Captain. You've scanned my ship, I've scanned yours. We each know the other is building a vessel to retrieve the probe. What you don't know is that my vessel will be ready to launch in less than two days. You're too far behind.
JANEWAY: Well, if you're so far ahead, why bother trying to scare us away?
VRELK (screen): Just trying to save you the embarrassment of losing.
CHAKOTAY: Think they're really two days away?
JANEWAY: He's probably bluffing but we're not going to take any chances. We've got to speed up construction somehow.
CHAKOTAY: We'd also better find a way to shore up our shields in case Vrelk decides to do anymore venting.
JANEWAY: Good idea. Janeway to Lieutenant Torres. Computer, locate Lieutenant Torres.
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Torres is in holodeck one.
JANEWAY: Get down there.

[Holodeck - Delta Flyer]
COMPUTER: Warning. Hull microfractures are present in zones one, two, three and four. Hull breach is imminent. Repeat. Hull microfracture are present in zones one, two, three and four. Hull breach is imminent.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, freeze program! B'Elanna. Chakotay to Sickbay. Medical emergency.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: What am I doing here?
EMH: You had an accident on the holodeck.
TORRES: How long was I out?
EMH: Almost twelve hours.
TORRES: I'd better get back to work.
EMH: Not just yet.
TORRES: Why?
EMH: The Captain's asked me to keep you here.
TORRES: But I feel fine.
JANEWAY: Would you excuse us please, Doctor.
TORRES: Captain, what's going on?
JANEWAY: When the Doctor examined you he found evidence of internal bleeding, fractured vertebrae, contusions, cranial trauma.
TORRES: I guess the accident was pretty serious.
JANEWAY: The injuries I'm talking about didn't happen recently. Some of them are weeks, even months old.
TORRES: Well, I'm an engineer. I've had my share of bumps and bruises.
JANEWAY: But you didn't seek treatment for any of these.
TORRES: I don't run to Sickbay every time I stub my toe.
JANEWAY: Some of these injuries were life-threatening, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Do I look like I'm dying?
JANEWAY: The Doctor says many of the wounds were treated by someone with the medical expertise of a first-year nursing student.
TORRES: Oh, that's ridiculous.
JANEWAY: Is it? We investigated today's accident. You turned off the safety protocols during the holo-simulation. Why?
TORRES: We have a microfracture problem. With the safety protocols on, there's no way to be sure what would happen during a real flight.
JANEWAY: You don't really expect me to believe that, do you?
TORRES: Are you calling me a liar?
JANEWAY: According to the holodeck logs, you've been spending a lot of time there over the last few months. If I were to check, would I find that you've been running other programs without safety protocols?
TORRES: Would you like to look at my personal logs as well?
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, I'm worried about you. If there's something wrong, I want to help.
TORRES: Nothing's wrong. Okay?
JANEWAY: No. It's not okay. And until you decide to be more forthcoming you'll remain under the Doctor's supervision. Which means you're off the shuttle project. I'm sorry.
TORRES: I'm not.
JANEWAY: Now I know there's something wrong.

[Ready room]
PARIS: Engines are operating at close to ninety percent efficiency, Seven's got her new weapons system online. And if we can just solve that microfracture problem, we'll be ready to go.
JANEWAY: Keep on it. Now, let's talk about B'Elanna. Tom, you had no idea about these injuries or how she got them?
PARIS: She never complained about being hurt, but then again she's barely speaking to me lately.
JANEWAY: It's almost as if she's been intentionally trying to hurt herself.
CHAKOTAY: You think all these injuries have been happening on the holodeck?
JANEWAY: Well, where else? If they'd happened while she was working, as she claims, somebody would've filed an injury report.
CHAKOTAY: Any idea what sort of programs she's been running?
JANEWAY: Are you thinking the same thing I am?
CHAKOTAY: I hate to go digging around in someone's personal holodeck programs, but if she won't tell us what's going on I don't think we have much choice.
JANEWAY: Tom, what do you think?
PARIS: He's right.
JANEWAY: Start digging.

[Torres' quarters]
TORRES: I'm sleeping!
TORRES: Oh.
CHAKOTAY: Hi.
TORRES: Hi. I, I thought you were the Doctor making a house call.
CHAKOTAY: He let you out of the cell block, huh?
TORRES: He thinks familiar surroundings will help speed my recovery.
CHAKOTAY: Recovery from what?
TORRES: That's what I said. He thinks I'm suffering from clinical depression.
CHAKOTAY: Are you depressed?
TORRES: What are you, the new ship's counselor?
CHAKOTAY: No. Just a friend.
TORRES: This whole thing is so ridiculous. I don't report a few scrapes and suddenly Janeway thinks there's something wrong with me. Typical Starfleet, huh?
CHAKOTAY: You have been running holodeck programs without safety protocols.
TORRES: A few, but I haven't put anybody else at risk, and it's nothing that I can't handle.
CHAKOTAY: Tell you what. What do you say you and I pay a little visit to the holodeck? You can show me some of the programs you've been running.
TORRES: Right now?
CHAKOTAY: Sure. Maybe if I see what you've been up to, I can convince the Captain there's nothing to worry about.
TORRES: She's taken away my holodeck privileges.
CHAKOTAY: Consider them restored.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Computer, activate holo-program Torres zeta one.
COMPUTER: Program activated.
TORRES: What are you doing?

[Holodeck - caves]
TORRES: Computer, freeze program.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, belay that command.
TORRES: Turn it off!
CHAKOTAY: Not until you tell me what it is!
TORRES: You know what it is.
CHAKOTAY: Who's this?
TORRES: Li-Paz. Don't you recognize him?
CHAKOTAY: Oh, I recognize them all. Meyer. Nelson. Sahreen. You created a program to watch all our Maquis friends get slaughtered. What I want to know is why?
TORRES: I thought we came down here to talk about safety protocols. This has nothing to do with that.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not so sure. The logs show you only ran this program for forty seven seconds the day after I gave you the news about the massacre. Then you shut it down and started running the most dangerous programs you could find, with the safeties off. Why?!
TORRES: This is ridiculous. I'm leaving.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, seal the doors.
TORRES: You can't do this!
CHAKOTAY: The hell I can't. You're not going anywhere until you tell me what's going on. B'Elanna, why are you intentionally trying to hurt yourself?
TORRES: I don't know.
CHAKOTAY: Are you trying to commit suicide?
TORRES: No.
CHAKOTAY: Then why?
TORRES: Because. Because if I sprain my ankle, at least I feel something.
CHAKOTAY: What do you mean?
TORRES: I'm not trying to kill myself. I'm trying to see if I'm still alive.
CHAKOTAY: I don't understand.
TORRES: When you look at those corpses, how do you feel?
CHAKOTAY: Sad. Angry. Maybe a little guilty that I wasn't there to die with them.
TORRES: Not me. I don't feel anything at all.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, the Maquis were like our adopted family. I can understand you trying to block out that kind of pain.
TORRES: You don't understand. It's not just the pain. I don't feel anything. Not about my dead friends, not about Tom, you, my job.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you're afraid if you let yourself start to feel something, you might not be able to stop. You can't just shut off your emotions, B'Elanna. Sooner or later you're going to have to let yourself grieve.
TORRES: Why? Just so I can go through it all over again?
CHAKOTAY: What are you talking about?
TORRES: When I was six, my father walked out on me. When I was nineteen, I got kicked out of Starfleet. A few years later, I got separated from the Maquis. And just when I start to feel safe, you tell me that all of our old friends have been slaughtered. The way I figure it, I've lost every family I've ever had.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, you have a new family now, here on Voyager. You're not going to lose us. You're stuck with us.
TORRES: You can't promise me that.
CHAKOTAY: No, I suppose I can't. Losing people's inevitable, and sometimes it happens sooner than we expect. But I can promise you that the people on this ship aren't about to let you stop living your life or break your neck on the holodeck. You're going to have to find another way to deal with this.
TORRES: I don't know how.
CHAKOTAY: Then we'll figure it out. Together.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Commander Chakotay, we're under attack. Report to the bridge immediately.
TORRES: You'd better go.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Why are they suddenly picking a fight?
TUVOK: I believe they're attempting to distract us, Commander, while they launch their new shuttlecraft.
TUVOK: The Malon vessel is forty two thousand kilometers from the probe, and closing.
CHAKOTAY: We can still catch them.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Lieutenant Paris.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Paris here.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We've got to launch now if we're going to get to the probe first. Are you ready?
PARIS: Yes ma'am. I'll begin the prelaunch sequence.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What about the microfracture problem?

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: We're keeping an eye on it, but we sure could use an extra hand.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Chakotay's on his way.

[Corridor]
TORRES: Chakotay, let me go.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, I'm in a hurry.
TORRES: I am not out to get myself hurt if that's what you're thinking. I just want to do my job.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you weren't interested in your job anymore.
TORRES: If that hull breaches, I should be there. I'm still the best engineer we've got.
CHAKOTAY: Not lately.
TORRES: I can do this. I need to do this.

[Delta Flyer]
KIM: Forty seconds to launch.
SEVEN: Powering impulse engines.
PARIS: Stand by to bring aft thrusters online.
KIM: B'Elanna.
TORRES: I heard you might need some help keeping this thing from falling apart.
PARIS: Welcome aboard.
TORRES: Vorik, you're in my seat.
VORIK: Excuse me, Lieutenant.
KIM: Twenty seconds to launch.
PARIS: Get that hatch closed.
KIM: Hatch sealed.
PARIS: Give me aft thrusters.
SEVEN: Aft thrusters enabled.
KIM: Ten seconds.
PARIS: Alright, let's see what this baby can do.
KIM: Five. Four. Three. Two. One.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The Delta Flyer is away, Captain.
JANEWAY: How long till they overtake the Malon shuttle?
TUVOK: At present velocity, approximately three minutes.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: We're in.
TORRES: Structural integrity's at ninety two percent.
KIM: There's the Malon shuttle. Two hundred kilometers off the port bow and three thousand kilometers from the probe.
PARIS: We'll catch them. B'Elanna, how's the hull?
TORRES: Structural integrity's down about twelve percent.
SEVEN: They're launching spatial charges. Shields holding.
PARIS: They want to play dirty. Let's show them what a little Borg-inspired weaponry can do.
SEVEN: Acknowledged. Loading photonic missiles.
KIM: We've lost power to secondary systems.
PARIS: Fire.
SEVEN: Three direct hits.
KIM: They're losing attitude control. They're pulling up.
PARIS: Nice shooting, Seven. I'm taking us down to the target. Harry, get ready to grab the probe.
KIM: Still out of transport range.
TORRES: We're losing integrity. Fifty percent, forty.
PARIS: If you can hold us together for another half a minute we'll be within range of the target.
SEVEN: We still need to survive the ascent.
PARIS: One thing at a time.
TORRES: We're losing structural integrity. It's down to twenty five percent.
PARIS: Harry, prepare to lock on.
TORRES: We've got microfractures forming. Aft starboard hull, zone two.
KIM: I've got a lock. Beaming the probe into the cargo hold. Got it!
PARIS: Initiating rapid ascent.
TORRES: Harry, I need those secondary systems back online.
KIM: I can't. They're fried.
SEVEN: Lieutenant, what are you doing?
TORRES: Patching a hole before it opens.
KIM: That'll never hold.
TORRES: It'll hold a minute or two, and with any luck that's all we need. Seven, take over here. I need an EPS relay.
KIM: Er, there's one in the transporter control circuitry.
SEVEN: The panel is sealed.
TORRES: Good. Get away from it.
TORRES: I need a phaser.
TORRES: Watch out. I don't know if this is going to work.
KIM: Glad you decided to come along.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The Delta Flyer has docked.
JANEWAY: And the Malon?
CHAKOTAY: They're a little preoccupied. Seems their shuttlecraft's having a problem climbing out of the gas giant's atmosphere.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here, Ensign. Warp two.
ENSIGN: Aye, Captain.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna. I heard you did a hell of a job. So, how are you?
TORRES: You mean am I back to my old charming self? I don't know.
CHAKOTAY: Give it time.
TORRES: Chakotay. What you did down in the holodeck today. Thanks. But if you ever do anything like that again, I'll break your neck.

[Mess hall]
TORRES: Computer, one stack of banana pancakes with maple syrup.

[Starfleet Headquarters - garden]
BULLOCK: Welcome to Earth. I am Admiral Bullock, and I will be your Commanding Officer for the next six months. Questions, comments, bring them to me. Problems, talk to Lieutenant Kinis. Larsen, you're assigned to the Federation Council, Deputy Liaison Officer. Young and Raskin, report to Orbital Flight Control. You'll be monitoring incoming vessels from the Bolian sector.
BOOTHBY: I can save you some time there, son. They're bamboo.
CHAKOTAY: I know that. Unfortunately, my tricorder's reading them as maple trees. I think the isodyne relays must be malfunctioning.
BOOTHBY: Why don't you pay a visit to Logistical Support? Maybe they'll issue you a new one.
CHAKOTAY: Good idea.
BOOTHBY: I'm going that way myself. Mind some company?
CHAKOTAY: Not at all.
BOOTHBY: So, what's your assignment here?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know. I haven't received my orders yet. I just arrived.
BOOTHBY: From where?
CHAKOTAY: A three year tour on the Intrepid.
BOOTHBY: Is that a fact? I thought the Intrepid was patrolling the Neutral Zone.
CHAKOTAY: It is. I caught a transport vessel at Deep Space Seven.
BOOTHBY: Ah. Got tired of wrestling with the Romulans.
CHAKOTAY: Let's just say it's good to be back. What about yourself? How long have you been posted here, Mister?
BOOTHBY: Boothby. Boothby's the name.
CHAKOTAY: Boothby. I've heard of you.
BOOTHBY: I should hope so. I've been tending these grounds for fifty four years, give or take a few months.
CHAKOTAY: And beautiful grounds they are.
BOOTHBY: Mmm hmm. Logistical Support. Straight through the main complex, second door on your right.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you.
BOOTHBY: Commander, Logistics is a secure area. They won't let you in with that holo-imaging device. Fresh from the Neutral Zone? You're not a Romulan double agent, are you, son?
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I was just recording a few images for my friends back home. Would you mind posing for a shot?
BOOTHBY: Me? You want a picture of me?
CHAKOTAY: The one and only Boothby. My friends would be impressed.
BOOTHBY: Well, when you put it that way. Cadet, take our picture, will you?
BOOTHBY: Don't cut off our heads. I expect a copy of that, young man.

[Quantum Cafe]
ARCHER: You're in my seat. And you're reading my book. Do you want my drink, too?
CHAKOTAY: Depends. What is it?
ARCHER: Klingon martini. Vermouth, gin, with a dash of bloodwine.
CHAKOTAY: Bloodwine? Never touch the stuff.
ARCHER: What do you like?
CHAKOTAY: Excuse me. I was waiting for a friend.
ARCHER: Valerie Archer.
CHAKOTAY: Hayek. Jason Hayek.
ARCHER: Nice tattoo. I bet there's a story behind it.
CHAKOTAY: A long one. A Cave Beyond Logic: Vulcan Perspectives on Platonic Thought. Sounds fascinating.
ARCHER: You can borrow it if you like.
CHAKOTAY: Thanks anyway. I can only take small doses of Vulcan philosophy.
ARCHER: Stationed here?
CHAKOTAY: Temporarily.
ARCHER: Where do you call home?
CHAKOTAY: You first. Where are you from?
ARCHER: Everywhere. My parents were starship officers. By the time I was ten I'd seen half the quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: Starfleet brat.
ARCHER: Bratty as they come.
ARCHER: Can I ask you a question. Have you ever reverted?
CHAKOTAY: Reverted? Not yet.
ARCHER: Ensign O'Halloran, this is his third time this week. If it happens again, they'll pull him out of training.
CHAKOTAY: What about you. Any trouble?
ARCHER: Oh, I can keep my human form. It's the little things that bother me.
CHAKOTAY: Little things?
ARCHER: Breathing oxygen, bipedal locomotion, and sleeping. The concept of being unconscious for eight hours a night, it's so alien.
CHAKOTAY: I know what you mean.
ARCHER: That's why I started reading their books. For some reason it helps me relax. But we shouldn't be talking about this. Think human, talk human, be human. Remember?
CHAKOTAY: How could I forget?
ARCHER: So, had a chance to take a look around?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet.
ARCHER: Headquarters has a lot more to offer than conference rooms and consoles, if you have the right guide.
CHAKOTAY: Is that an invitation?
ARCHER: I get off duty at nineteen hundred hours.
TUVOK: Commander.
ARCHER: Speak of the devil.
CHAKOTAY: We were just discussing Vulcan philosophy.
ARCHER: Join us.
TUVOK: Another time, perhaps. We have work to do.
ARCHER: Oh, can't it wait?
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid not.
ARCHER: What about tonight? Do we have a date? Nineteen hundred hours. Meet you right here.
CHAKOTAY: I'll do my best.
ARCHER: Live long and prosper.
TUVOK: A date?
CHAKOTAY: Relax, Tuvok. I plan on standing her up.
TUVOK: We agreed to limit our investigation to surveillance.
CHAKOTAY: It was worth the risk. She talked about training. These are some kind of aliens learning to pose as humans.
TUVOK: For what purpose?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know. I didn't get that far.
TUVOK: We're due back at the transporter coordinates.

[Starfleet Headquarters - gardens]
GENTRY: Excuse me, gentlemen. You've entered a restricted area. Captains and above.
CHAKOTAY: Sorry. We didn't realize.
GENTRY: I'm going to have to ask you to come with me.
TUVOK: Why?
GENTRY: All unauthorized personnel are to be debriefed by Starfleet Intelligence. Direct orders from Admiral Bullock.
CHAKOTAY: Listen, Ensign, we're late for a meeting with Starfleet Command. The debriefing will have to wait.
GENTRY: I'm sorry, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Very well.
TUVOK: When he regains consciousness, he'll no doubt want to report this incident.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Paris, three to beam up.
PARIS (voiceover): Three?
CHAKOTAY: I'll explain later.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Who's that?
CHAKOTAY: One of Starfleet's finest. Take us to Voyager.
KIM: What did you find down there?
TUVOK: Earth.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Welcome aboard.
GENTRY: Where am I?
JANEWAY: On a starship.
GENTRY: What starship? Why have you brought me here? I'll be reporting this incident to the Admiral.
CHAKOTAY: You can drop the charade. We know you're not human.
JANEWAY: Who are you?
GENTRY: Gentry, David. Rank, Ensign. Starfleet service number nine nine beta three two seven eight. Planet of origin, Earth.
JANEWAY: We're not interested in your knowledge of human culture. We're not part of your re-creation. I'm Captain Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. I'm from Earth. You're not.
GENTRY: Gentry, David. Rank, Ensign. Starfleet service number nine nine beta three two seven eight.
JANEWAY: Doctor.
GENTRY: What are you doing?
EMH: I need a sample of your DNA.
GENTRY: Why?
JANEWAY: Since you won't tell us who you are, we have no choice but to find out for ourselves.
EMH: You won't be harmed.
GENTRY: Gentry to Headquarters. Security alert!
CHAKOTAY: We've disabled your comm. badge.
GENTRY: No! Don't touch me. Disease! Humans!
EMH: It appears he's released a cellular toxin into his bloodstream. He's dead.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Until we know exactly what's going on I'm keeping Voyager concealed behind a class three moon.

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: Federation Council, Astrophysics, Starfleet Medical complex. They even re-created the Officers' Club, the Quantum Café.
JANEWAY: Computer, return to time index 4228. That's Boothby.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: The head groundskeeper at Starfleet Academy. When I was a cadet, he used to give me fresh roses for my quarters.
TUVOK: It's safe to assume this individual is not Boothby.
JANEWAY: Whoever they are, they've gathered incredibly accurate information about Starfleet headquarters.
SEVEN: Perhaps they had access to a Federation database.
CHAKOTAY: Or they've been to San Francisco.
TUVOK: The habitat's population consists of humans, Vulcans, Bolian, Ferengi. All Alpha Quadrant species.
JANEWAY: What do we know about this artificial environment, Seven?
SEVEN: I've used the tricorder data, holo-images and astrometric scans to extrapolate a cross-section of the interior. I believe they used a combination of holographic projection and particle synthesis.
JANEWAY: Power source?
SEVEN: There are thirteen thermionic generators beneath the city. I can't identify the energy signatures.
TUVOK: The habitat's heavily fortified. They are well prepared to defend against an attack.
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
EMH (voiceover): I've completed my post-mortem analysis. You'd better get down here.
JANEWAY: On my way. If this is a training ground, it could mean they're planning an invasion of the Federation. We should prepare for the worst. See if you can find a way to penetrate their defenses.

[Sickbay]
EMH: He may look human, he may sound human, he may even smell human, but there's no question, he's alien.
JANEWAY: Was he genetically altered?
EMH: On a highly sophisticated level. If it weren't for microcellular scans I wouldn't be able to distinguish him from the genuine article. I've managed to isolate the alien DNA. Fortunately, most of his cells are still chemically active. If I use a cytokinetic injection I should be able to trigger a genetic reversion.
JANEWAY: Do it.
EMH: Talk about a wolf in sheep's clothing.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Species 8472. The question is, why are they training to pose as human beings?
PARIS: Back in the twentieth century, the Soviets used to build American towns to train their agents to infiltrate the United States. Species 8472 could be doing the same thing.
KIM: They're going to infiltrate the Alpha Quadrant.
PARIS: Maybe they already have.
TORRES: Tom's right. How else could they have gathered their information about us?
SEVEN: Perhaps they've acquired it from the Borg.
JANEWAY: It doesn't matter how they got their data. We need to find out what they intend to do with it.
SEVEN: If our previous experience is any indication, they will try to destroy Earth.
TUVOK: A logical assumption. They did threaten to purge our galaxy of all life.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, keep working on a way to target their habitat's power source. We're going to need nanoprobe warheads and plenty of them. Seven, see to it.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: In the meantime, I've got a date to keep. I made contact with one of them, Commander Valerie Archer. Maybe I can capitalize on the relationship. Get a better idea of what they're planning.
JANEWAY: Tom, Harry, take him back in the Delta Flyer. Keep a constant transporter lock on him. If Species 8472 attacks Earth, the Federation won't have any defenses against them, and I don't need to remind you that we have no way to warn Starfleet Command. Voyager may be the last defense against an all-out invasion of Earth.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: Last minute preparations?
CHAKOTAY: Just planning my big night out.
JANEWAY: I can recommend a nice Japanese replimat on the Embarcadero.
CHAKOTAY: I was never very good with chopsticks.
JANEWAY: Starfleet headquarters. Brings back memories, even if it is just a re-creation. I remember my last visit there. I was given my general orders for Voyager's first mission. Proceed to the Badlands and find the Maquis.
CHAKOTAY: The orders that brought us together.
JANEWAY: What about you? When was the last time you were at Headquarters?
CHAKOTAY: Before today? March 3rd, 2368. The day I resigned my commission. I can still remember the look on the Admiral's face.
JANEWAY: Which one?
CHAKOTAY: Nimembeh.
JANEWAY: He taught at the Academy, didn't he?
CHAKOTAY: That's right.
JANEWAY: Interspecies Ethics, wasn't it?
CHAKOTAY: Tactical Analysis.
JANEWAY: Of course.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, you think I might be one of them. You're testing me.
JANEWAY: You and Tuvok were in the alien habitat for nearly three hours. Anything could have happened down there.
CHAKOTAY: True. Why don't you have Tuvok meet us in Sickbay. The Doctor can perform a microcellular analysis.
JANEWAY: Tuvok's already there.
CHAKOTAY: You could have just asked me to report to Sickbay.
JANEWAY: Given Ensign Gentry's reaction, I thought I'd be a little more tactful.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Not taking any chances, are you?
JANEWAY: Don't feel singled out. I've asked the Doctor to examine the entire crew. There's no telling how 8472 got their information about Starfleet. From the Borg? Earth? For all we know there's been an impostor on board.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Cell morphology normal, all of your nucleotide sequences are accounted for. You're a hundred percent human.
CHAKOTAY: That's a relief. And Tuvok?
EMH: Green blooded Vulcan through and through. Well, two down, one hundred and twenty five to go.
JANEWAY: You'd better get going.
CHAKOTAY: Right. I don't want to be late.
JANEWAY: Just be home before midnight.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, ma'am.

[Delta Flyer]
KIM: I've enhanced this tricorder with a transoptic datalink. It should help you access some of their systems. Type one phaser modified to fire Borg nanoprobes.
CHAKOTAY: Right.
PARIS: Do you always arm yourself before a first date?
KIM: You've never had a date with species 8472.
PARIS: Personally, I don't go out with girls from other galaxies.
KIM: You're a true explorer, Chakotay.
PARIS: Is she cute?
CHAKOTAY: In her human form, anyway.
KIM: I've always wondered what it would be like to date an alien.
CHAKOTAY: I'll take notes.
PARIS: We're making our approach.
CHAKOTAY: All stop. Shields up.

[Medical lab]
EMH: Feisty little fellows. You've increased their cellular motility by over two hundred percent.
SEVEN: I thought it would be prudent to maximize their efficiency.
EMH: Seven, the last time we used nanoprobes we sent 8472 scurrying back to fluidic space. You can't get more efficient than that.
SEVEN: The species is highly adaptive. It's been over a year since our first encounter. They may have developed a defense against our technology.
EMH: There's one way to find out. We can test the nanoprobes on our corpse. You'll find the body in morgue chamber three. Beam it to the surgical bay. The creature's only been dead for a few hours, there should still be plenty of cellular activity.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Initiate a bio-scan, full spectrum. Don't worry. It's an autonomic reflex. The creature still has residual bioelectric activity in its nervous system.
SEVEN: Something's wrong. The nanoprobes should have taken effect by now.
EMH: Hmm.
SEVEN: What is it?
EMH: The creature's nucleotides are still intact. It looks like your concerns were warranted. We'll have to inform the Captain. We may have to
SEVEN: Doctor.
EMH: False alarm.
SEVEN: I will replicate more nanoprobes.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: I don't mind telling you, Seven, I'm still holding out for a diplomatic solution.
SEVEN: Improbable. Species 8472 will not respond to diplomacy.
EMH: Funny. We used to say the same thing about the Borg. My point is, anything's possible if you keep an open mind. Optimism, Seven. Try to look on the bright side.
SEVEN: It is difficult to be optimistic when we are preparing for battle.
EMH: Have you ever heard the phrase, the best defense is a good offense?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: Throughout human history weapons of mass destruction were often designed in the hopes that they'd never be used.
SEVEN: And yet, in Earth's Third World War, nuclear weapons accounted for six hundred million casualties. Were they looking on the bright side?
EMH: An unfortunate exception.

[Quantum Cafe]
ARCHER: We were just talking about you.
CHAKOTAY: Oh?
BOOTHBY: She didn't think you were going to show up.
ARCHER: Boothby!
BOOTHBY: I've known Archer since she was a first year cadet. She's not easily impressed. I didn't think you were her type. Oh, er, if you'll excuse me, I've got some midnight orchids that need my attention. Think about what I said, young lady. You'll be fine.
ARCHER: Thank you, Boothby.
CHAKOTAY: Problems?
ARCHER: I was offered a field commission this morning. First officer of the starship HorCha.
CHAKOTAY: Congratulations.
ARCHER: It's a Klingon vessel.
CHAKOTAY: Oh. So what did Boothby say?
ARCHER: DuCha me gagh roh. Smile when you eat the gagh.
CHAKOTAY: Wise words.
ARCHER: Yeah.
CHAKOTAY: Do you always seek advice from the groundskeeper?
ARCHER: Half the Captains in Starfleet wouldn't be where they are today if it weren't for Boothby. Lopez, Picard, Richardson, just to name a few. Closing time.
CHAKOTAY: You offered to be my guide. Where's our next stop?
ARCHER: Can you dance?
CHAKOTAY: I've been accused of trying.
ARCHER: It's Pon Farr night at the Vulcan nightclub.
CHAKOTAY: Vulcan?
ARCHER: It's just around the corner.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Take it easy, Harry. We didn't build the Delta Flyer to withstand such extensive pacing.
KIM: He should have contacted us by now.
PARIS: Give him time.
KIM: Four hours?
PARIS: It's a date. These things can't be rushed. They probably just finished dinner, a couple of drinks, and now they are moving past the polite stage.
KIM: Polite stage? The last 8472 I met tried to dissolve me from the inside out.
PARIS: It was only trying to get to know you better, Harry. You can't fault a person for that. Look, Chakotay can take care of himself. And if he can't, who better than us to come to the rescue?

[Archer's quarters]
CHAKOTAY: Turns out the transporter malfunctioned. My uniform ended up in the pattern buffer.
ARCHER: You're kidding. You were naked?
CHAKOTAY: Not entirely. I had my commbadge.
ARCHER: I hope it was well-placed. Computer, lights.
CHAKOTAY: So this is where they're putting up officers nowadays. Not bad.
ARCHER: Can I get you something to drink?
CHAKOTAY: Water's fine.
ARCHER: I'm beginning to think you're a teetotaller.
CHAKOTAY: I like to stay in control.
ARCHER: Always at yellow alert, huh?
CHAKOTAY: Something like that.
ARCHER: Find anything interesting?
CHAKOTAY: Beyond the Galactic Edge, Humanity's Quest for Infinity. This is a 21st century edition of Hesterman, isn't it?
ARCHER: Replicated. Good book though.
CHAKOTAY: Never read it.
ARCHER: You should. Human beings, they're quite a paradox.
CHAKOTAY: Oh? How so.
ARCHER: At first glance, they're so primitive. Genetic impurities, no telepathy, violent and yet they've created so many beautiful ways to communicate their ideas. Literature, art, music. At times, I've actually enjoyed being in this form. You must think I'm crazy.
CHAKOTAY: Not at all.
ARCHER: I wonder what they think about us?
CHAKOTAY: Hard to say.
ARCHER: I'll tell you what I think. They despise us. They'll attack any species that's not part of their Federation. Mmm. Speaking of being in human form. I could use an isomorphic injection. You need one?
CHAKOTAY: I'm fine.
ARCHER: Make yourself at home.
ARCHER: Commander. How do you like the view?
CHAKOTAY: Lovely.
ARCHER: Looks like a full moon. You can see the entire bay on a night like this.
CHAKOTAY: I should have brought my holo-imager. You make a pretty picture.
ARCHER: Mmm, feel that? Salinated oxygen molecules, stimulating the epidermal and neural receptors. Non-fluidic space has its charms.
CHAKOTAY: No argument there.
ARCHER: Planet Earth. The simulation will be real soon enough.
CHAKOTAY: How soon do you think?
ARCHER: Weeks, days. As soon as they think we're ready.
CHAKOTAY: Can I be honest with you?
ARCHER: Please.
CHAKOTAY: I'm starting to wonder if all this is worth the effort.
ARCHER: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: This simulation, our mission. Are we certain the humans pose a threat?
ARCHER: They were allies with the Borg. They invaded our realm.
CHAKOTAY: That was one incident. That doesn't mean the entire Federation is planning a war against us.
ARCHER: We can't trust them. We have to prepare for the worst.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not so sure.
ARCHER: I think you've been human a little too long.
CHAKOTAY: Before you know it, I'll be sending my resume to the real Starfleet.
ARCHER: Alien from distant galaxy seeks employment. References available upon request.
CHAKOTAY: Well, it's getting late. I'd better go.
ARCHER: Already?
CHAKOTAY: I have a tactical report to finish before morning.
ARCHER: Aren't we forgetting something? I'm no expert at human dating rituals, but I think it's customary to kiss good night. You've never done this before.
CHAKOTAY: Actually.
ARCHER: Me, neither. Just think of it as part of our training.
BOOTHBY (screen): Report.
ARCHER: I analyzed his DNA. Your suspicions were correct.
BOOTHBY (screen): How much does he know?
ARCHER: It's difficult to say. He'll have to be interrogated.
BOOTHBY (screen): Where is he?
ARCHER: By now he should be in the main quad. I recommend we go to daylight. He'll be easier to track.

[Starfleet Headquarters - gardens]
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Paris. Delta Flyer, respond! (He shoots a man who is running towards him, then runs himself. But soon he is surrounded by humanoid 8472, who grab him and take him away.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Yes. Come in.
SEVEN: The Borg modifications are complete. Nineteen standard photon torpedoes and three class tens armed with high-yield warheads.
JANEWAY: More.
SEVEN: We ha've depleted our supply of nanoprobes.
JANEWAY: Replicate a new supply.
SEVEN: That is not possible.
JANEWAY: Have the Doctor extract them from your bloodstream. Grow them in a petrie dish. Whatever it takes. If we do engage 8472 I don't intend to run out of firepower mid-battle. You of all people should understand that. They killed, what, four million drones? Directive zero one zero. Before engaging alien species in battle, any and all attempts to make First Contact and achieve non-military resolution must be made. In this case, we made first contact over a year ago and we barely got out of it alive. It seems to me a battle is inevitable, maybe even war. So why can't I get that directive out of my mind?
SEVEN: This species intends to purge our galaxy of all life. It's time you resisted your Starfleet philosophy.
TUVOK (voiceover): Captain to the Bridge.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The away team is hailing us.
JANEWAY: Tom.
PARIS (screen): Chakotay's in trouble. He tried to contact us ten minutes ago, but his signal was cut off.
KIM (screen): Some kind of forcefield went up around the habitat. We can't get a lock on him.
JANEWAY: Has your vessel been detected?
PARIS (screen): I don't think so. At least, no one's tried to take a shot at us yet.
JANEWAY: Hold your position. Keep trying to locate him. We're on our way.
PARIS (screen): Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Bring those Borg weapons online. Red alert. All hands to battle stations. Take us out of orbit.

[Quantum Cafe]
ARCHER: I thought you had a tactical report to finish.
BOOTHBY: What'll you have, son? I'm a single malt man, myself. Aged two hundred years. Been saving it for a special occasion, and I'd say this is special enough. A toast. To Earth. Chakotay. Rank, Commander. Starfleet service number forty seven alpha six one two. First officer, USS Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Species 8472. Origin, fluidic space.
BOOTHBY: Well, now that we've been formally introduced, how many ships? Cat got your tongue? I asked you a question. How many vessels do you have in the Delta Quadrant?
CHAKOTAY: One.
ARCHER: How did you find us?
CHAKOTAY: We detected what looked like a Federation subspace transmission. It took us weeks to track it here.
BOOTHBY: We wanted this simulation to be accurate to the last detail. We obviously went a little too far. Now that you know about our re-creation, you've no doubt alerted the Federation. Your fleet will be on its way.
CHAKOTAY: You've got it wrong. We're not planning a war against you.
ARCHER: Is that why you were here to spy on us, because you're curious?
BULLOCK: Sir, a starship is approaching. It's Voyager.
BOOTHBY: Raise our shields. Stand by, all weapons.
CHAKOTAY: Captain Janeway is not here to launch an attack. She's here to find me.
BOOTHBY: We've got the real McCoy here. We might as well take advantage of it. Perform a genetic extraction. It may help us find a better way to maintain these human forms.
ARCHER: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: We are approaching the habitat.
JANEWAY: Shields to maximum. Charge weapons. All hands, this is the bridge. Tactical alert. Report to your posts and stand by to engage the enemy.
TUVOK: I have a visual. We're being scanned.
JANEWAY: Let them take a look.
SEVEN: The Delta Flyer is heading up from the habitat.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. Tom, status?
PARIS (voiceover): They've taken a couple of pot-shots at us, Captain. We've lost our shields. Mind if we join you?
JANEWAY: You're clear to dock. Shuttlebay two. Any word from Chakotay?
PARIS (voiceover): I'm afraid not.
JANEWAY: Bring us within range. Target their weapons array.
SEVEN: Captain, we should target their power systems as well.
JANEWAY: No, I don't want to risk shutting down their life support. If we can end this without casualties, so much the better.
SEVEN: This species does not deserve our compassion.
JANEWAY: You picked a lousy time for an ethical debate. The weapons array. Now.
TUVOK: We're entering weapons range. Thirty eight hundred kilometers. Thirty five hundred. Thirty two hundred.

[Quantum Cafe]
CHAKOTAY: Valerie.
ARCHER: That's not my name.
CHAKOTAY: Then what is it? You're afraid of us, aren't you. You think we're violent, that we're planning to destroy your species, but none of that's true. If you would take the time to speak to us directly, we could prove it to you. There are no secrets except the secrets that keep themselves.
ARCHER: Shaw.
CHAKOTAY: George Bernard Shaw. I saw a copy of his Collected Works on your bookshelf.
ARCHER: He had a complex mind, for a human.
CHAKOTAY: And he had a point. As long as we keep spying on each other, making assumptions, we probably will go to war.
ARCHER: Voyager.

[Bridge]
SEVEN: They're charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Do the same.
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: Mister Boothby.
BOOTHBY (screen): Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Good to see you after all these years. Enjoying the Delta Quadrant?
BOOTHBY (screen): Don't get sassy with me, young lady. This re-creation may be Starfleet but our weapons are far more sophisticated. I can destroy your vessel with a single command. Run along now.
JANEWAY: I'm not going anywhere. Not until you return my First Officer and give me a damn good explanation for what you're doing in our galaxy. I've targeted your re-creation with Borg nanoprobes, and we're willing to use them if you force us to.
BOOTHBY (screen): Don't try to rattle my cage. I'll disable your tactical systems before you can
JANEWAY: The last time our species engaged in battle, you suffered heavy casualties. Are you willing to take that chance again? An armed conflict isn't going to solve our problems. We could go on making threats, spying on each other, risking a war between our species. Or we could try a more direct approach.
BOOTHBY (screen): What do you have in mind?
JANEWAY: How about a class reunion?

[Briefing room]
BOOTHBY: Targ manure! United Federation of Planets, tolerance for all species, the Prime Directive. Targ manure, every word of it.
TUVOK: Your metaphor is colorful, but inaccurate.
BOOTHBY: Vulcan logic. Add that to the list.
JANEWAY: Obviously, you've studied a Starfleet database. You must have learned something about our history. We adhere to our directives.
BULLOCK: High-minded ideals are one thing, but your actions tell a very different story. You infiltrated our re-creation, captured and killed one of our people.
JANEWAY: I told you, he took his own life.
BULLOCK: You created biological weapons to infect our species. You are allies with the Borg.
BOOTHBY: There's a drone sitting at this very table. Look at her, all gussied up to look like a human being.
SEVEN: I am no longer part of the Collective.
BOOTHBY: Once a Borg, always a Borg.
JANEWAY: Seven of Nine is a member of this crew.
BULLOCK: The Borg are irrelevant. It's the humans that pose a threat.
CHAKOTAY: They think the Federation is a hostile invasion force out to destroy their species.
JANEWAY: I see. So you're planning a pre-emptive strike against Earth.
BOOTHBY: Maybe I am.
JANEWAY: You realize I can't let that happen.
BOOTHBY: Go ahead, fire your damn nanoprobes. Blow our re-creation to high heavens. There are a dozen more scattered throughout the quadrant. You'll never find them all.
JANEWAY: What if I told you that Starfleet isn't planning an invasion? That no one on Earth has even heard of you?
BOOTHBY: I'd say you're lying.
JANEWAY: Have another look at that Federation database of yours. You'll see there's no mention of your realm.
BULLOCK: Immaterial. Any information regarding our species has no doubt been classified by Starfleet intelligence.
JANEWAY: Good point. You know, we could keep this paranoid debate going all day. You have no reason to trust us and we have no reason to trust you.
BOOTHBY: Hear, hear. I knew this reunion would be a fiasco. Admiral.
JANEWAY: Seven, disarm the warheads Do it,
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: Do it.
BOOTHBY: What are you trying to prove, young lady?
JANEWAY: One of us has to take our finger off the trigger. It might as well be me.
ARCHER: Their weapons are offline.
BULLOCK: It's a trick.
JANEWAY: Our defenses are down. What will you do now? Blow Voyager to high heavens, or do we keep talking?
BOOTHBY: Humans. You've got a flair for the dramatic, I'll give you that. You want to keep talking? Fine by me, but no more beating around the bush. Now, what do you want from us? The truth, Captain.
JANEWAY: Voyager is alone in the Delta Quadrant. We haven't been in contact with Earth for over four years.
BOOTHBY: Explain why you attacked our realm, hand in hand with the Borg.
JANEWAY: At the time, we didn't realize the Borg had started the war against you. We forged a temporary alliance with them because we thought you were the threat.
SEVEN: Your galaxy will be purged. Sound familiar?
BULLOCK: We were only trying to defend ourselves.
TUVOK: If that's true, why are you still in our galaxy? Your conflict with the Borg ended over a year ago.
JANEWAY: Why re-create Starfleet, masquerade as humans? It looks to me like you're the ones planning an invasion. The truth.
BULLOCK: Don't answer her. She's manipulating us.
ARCHER: If you won't answer, I will.
BULLOCK: Commander.
ARCHER: Our mission is to infiltrate your home world, to place operatives in the highest levels of Starfleet, monitor your military installations. It's a reconnaissance mission, nothing more.
CHAKOTAY: We should listen to her, Captain. They're being driven by fear just like we are. Unless everything you said on our date was just part of an act.
ARCHER: It wasn't.
BULLOCK: Enough! We must not negotiate with these creatures.
BOOTHBY: Sit down, Admiral.
BULLOCK: Sir.
BOOTHBY: I said sit down, or I'll knock you right on your human butt.
BULLOCK: You've been seduced by them, both of you.
ARCHER: I've had a chance to see through human eyes and I'm beginning to wonder, are they really so violent? What if we're wrong?
BULLOCK: We can't risk trusting them.
ARCHER: You'd rather risk another war?
BOOTHBY: Keep talking, son.
CHAKOTAY: Archer's right. We've got to set aside our preconceptions about each other. Granted, our species didn't meet under the best of circumstances, but maybe we can make first contact again. Maybe this time we'll get it right.
BOOTHBY: You believe in this fellow?
ARCHER: Yes.
BOOTHBY: There would have to be a few ground rules.
JANEWAY: Name them.
BOOTHBY: First off, I want to take a look at that nanoprobe technology. It scares the hell out of me.
JANEWAY: All right, but I'll need some tactical information in return. Your genetic alteration techniques for a start.
BOOTHBY: I'm sure something can be arranged. You on board, Admiral? Good enough for me.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 52136.4. We've managed to avoid a military conflict with Species 8472, at least for now. In an effort to strengthen the truce, we're exchanging technology.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: The design schematic for our nanoprobe weapons as requested.
JANEWAY: This could go a long way toward allaying their fears.
SEVEN: Perhaps.
JANEWAY: Have a little faith, Seven.
SEVEN: It's difficult to have faith in an idea which may prove tactically unsound.
JANEWAY: Tactically unsound? Perhaps. It could also be the first step toward peace. It's a risk I'm willing to take. Are you sure you won't join us? It would be your first chance to see Earth.
SEVEN: I prefer to remain aboard Voyager. If problems arise while you're in the habitat
JANEWAY: There won't be any problems. Nothing tactical, at any rate. We're entering a stage of diplomacy where most of the problems will be cultural. How do you shake hands with an 8472? We'll be fine.
SEVEN: When you ordered me to disarm the warhead during the negotiation, I anticipated an immediate attack. I believed they would take advantage of your human weakness. I was wrong. If I had been in your position, we would most likely be engaged in a battle with 8472 at this moment. How did you know?
JANEWAY: I didn't. Like I said.
SEVEN: Faith.

[Starfleet Headquarters - gardens]
BULLOCK: Welcome to Terrasphere Eight, Starfleet Command re-creation. I am Admiral Bullock and I'll be acquainting you with our facility. Questions, comments bring them to me. Problems talk to Lieutenant Kinis. Commander Tuvok, you wanted to examine our thermionic generators.
TUVOK: Yes.
BULLOCK: I'll take you there personally. Ambassador Nelix?
NEELIX: It's Neelix, sir.
BULLOCK: Neelix. You'll be joining the Lieutenant. He'll familiarize you with our environmental control technology.
NEELIX: Wonderful. I look forward to hearing your perspective on Vulcans.
JANEWAY: You didn't happen to re-create a little coffee shop on Market Street, the Night Owl?
BOOTHBY: Afraid not. You're welcome to stay. put your feet up. We won't be returning to fluidic space for another day or two.
JANEWAY: Thank you, but the real Earth is a long way from here. I'd like to get back on the road. What are the chances they'll listen to you?
BOOTHBY: I can't promise you the moon, Captain. My superiors aren't as forward thinking. Peace with humans? Wow. They're going to hit the roof. But I'll tell them what happened here today, and with a pinch of luck a few of them might see the light.
JANEWAY: Well, you've got Voyager's comm. frequency. You know how to contact us. I hope we can keep this process alive.
BOOTHBY: Don't call us, we'll call you. Oh, I almost forgot. Ahh.
BOOTHBY: Genetically synthesized, but they smell just as lovely.
JANEWAY: Oh.
CHAKOTAY: Looking forward to going home?
ARCHER: At least I can finally get out of this form.
CHAKOTAY: No more insomnia.
ARCHER: No more sleeping, period.
CHAKOTAY: For what it's worth, you made a terrific human.
ARCHER: Shame.
CHAKOTAY: Hmm?
ARCHER: It's too bad our species are so different, otherwise I'd ask you for a second date.
CHAKOTAY: You did offer to be my guide. How about a tour of your realm sometime?
ARCHER: I'd like that.
CHAKOTAY: Well, I'm due back on Voyager. We leave at oh four hundred.
ARCHER: I'll never get a chance to do this again.
ARCHER: Any better this time?
CHAKOTAY: You're a quick study.

[Holodeck - Forest of Forever]
FLOTTER (voiceover): Ouch!
NAOMI: Wake up.
FLOTTER (voiceover): Who's there?
NAOMI: Naomi.
FLOTTER (voiceover): Come back later.
NAOMI: You know what I think? I think you're scared of the tree monster.
FLOTTER: I'm not scared of any tree monster, Miss Wildman, but, as you know, I need my beauty sleep.
NAOMI: Sorry I woke you, but we have a mission.
FLOTTER: You and your missions. Lucky for you, your old pal Flotter has everything ready. Follow me. I've laid a trap. When he climbs this tree, he'll trip the alarm. Tree monsters are terrified of high-pitched noises.
NAOMI: I never heard that.
FLOTTER: Oh, it's a well known fact. The bell will scare him high into those branches where counterweights will bend the treetop till it springs back, catapulting him pond-ward and, splash! He'll sink like a log.
NAOMI: But Flotter, logs float.
FLOTTER: Details, details.
TREVIS: That is a terrible plan.
NAOMI: It's him!
TREVIS: The name's Trevis. And you are?
FLOTTER: Flotter. Flotter T. Water III.
TREVIS: Well, of course you are, drippy. You.
NAOMI: Naomi Wildman, but my friends call me Naomi.
TREVIS: I don't recognize your element. You're not earth or water or plasma.
NAOMI: I'm human.
TREVIS: Where do you live?
NAOMI: In space.
TREVIS: Nobody lives in space.
FLOTTER: She does. On a starship called Voyager.
NAOMI: I'm an explorer.
TREVIS: Really? An explorer. Timber. What's that like?
NAOMI: Well, you know, space battles with aliens, strange anomalies.
TREVIS: May I visit your starship?
NAOMI: Well, I'll have to ask my mom.
FLOTTER: You know, for a monster, you're very polite.
TREVIS: That's because I'm not a monster.
TREVIS: You see that? I'm not scared one bit. My bark is worse than my bite.
NAOMI: Maybe we jumped to conclusions about him.
FLOTTER: Well, he may not be a monster, but he is stealing my water with his roots.
TREVIS: Stealing? Absurd. Why, I ought to dry you up.
FLOTTER: And I ought to chop you down!
TREVIS: You want a piece of me?
NAOMI: Excuse me! It sounds like you two need each other. I mean, think about it. Flotter, your water helps his trees grow, and Trevis, your branches shade his pond from the sun. It's a well-known fact that the sun makes water evaporate.
FLOTTER: She's got a point.
TREVIS: The girl's a thinker.
NAOMI: Now, shake hands and make up.
TREVIS: Urgh. Moist palms.
FLOTTER: Urgh, sappy fingers.
NEELIX (voiceover): Neelix to Holodeck two.
NAOMI: Naomi here.
NEELIX (voiceover): It's bedtime.
NAOMI: Can't I stay a little longer?
NEELIX (voiceover): You know the rules.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Besides, someone special wants to say good night.

[Holodeck - Forest of Forever]
NAOMI: Mom! Computer, end program.

[Wildman's Quarters]
WILDMAN (screen): And how's Flotter?
NAOMI: Grouchy as ever, but we made a new friend today named Trevis. I'll introduce him to you tomorrow as soon as you get home.
WILDMAN (screen): I'm afraid the away mission may take a few more days, sweetheart.
NAOMI: Days?
WILDMAN (screen): Yes, but I'm bringing you back some beautiful sillinite crystals and lots of holo-pictures for your data album. Now be a good girl and get ready for bed while I talk to Neelix.
NAOMI: All right.
WILDMAN (screen): Sweet dreams.
NEELIX: Samantha?
WILDMAN (screen): We ran into an ion storm.
NEELIX: How bad is it?
WILDMAN (screen): We took a real beating. We're trying to make repairs, but there's another storm on the way. Better go. Say goodnight for me

[Delta Flyer]
WILDMAN: I've lost the comm. signal.
TUVOK: A level seven ionic front is closing aft at thirty three thousand kph.
PARIS: I need more power to the thrusters If I'm going to outrun it.
WILDMAN: I'll see what I can do.
TUVOK: The leading edge is approaching.
WILDMAN: I've given you all the power I can spare, Tom.
PARIS: It's not enough. I can't keep ahead of this thing. Brace for impact!

[Briefing room]
TUVOK (voiceover): Mayday, Mayday. Delta Flyer to Voyager. Need assistance. Warp drive is. Impulse power is down. Thrusters only. The ion storms damaged the primary systems. Life support is failing. Searching for an emergency landing site. Require immediate assistance.
CHAKOTAY: That was their last transmission. We haven't been able to raise them since.
TORRES: If they're looking for a place to land, they must be in pretty bad shape.
JANEWAY: Anything on long range sensors?
KIM: We lost their signature when the second ion storm hit, but we've triangulated the co-ordinates of the distress call. They've entered a planetary system about point six light years from here.
TORRES: The problem is there's another ion storm, a level five, blocking our path.
JANEWAY: Level five? We've been through worse. Let's just batten down the hatches and reinforce the shields. We're not going to let a little bad weather stand in our way.
NEELIX: What about Naomi?
CHAKOTAY: I guess somebody's going to have to explain why her mother's not back.
NEELIX: Maybe we shouldn't tell her anything.
JANEWAY: Why not?
NEELIX: She's a very sensitive girl. I don't want to alarm her unnecessarily. With any luck, we'll have her mother back before she starts to worry.
JANEWAY: Well, you're closer to her than anyone. I'm inclined to let you take the lead on this.
NEELIX: Thanks, Captain.
JANEWAY: All right. Consider it your mission to keep her occupied.
NEELIX: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.

[Mess hall]
NAOMI: I was thinking.
NEELIX: Oh?
NAOMI: It's time I carried my weight around here.
NEELIX: Ah. They could use a hand in the Airponics bay.
NAOMI: I was thinking more of the bridge.
NEELIX: Captain's assistant.
NAOMI: Would I get to fly the ship?
NEELIX: Well, we'd have to take it up with the Captain.
SEVEN: Need to check the internal sensors.
NAOMI: Neelix, don't move.
NEELIX: What's wrong?
NAOMI: The Borg lady.
NEELIX: She has a name, you know.
NAOMI: Seven of Nine, tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix zero one. Don't look! She'll assimilate you.
NEELIX: Naomi, Seven is a nice person, and she's a valuable member of this crew.
NAOMI: I don't want to be in her Collective.
NEELIX: I don't think there's much danger of that.
KIM: Hey, Neelix. Hey, Naomi. Neelix, can I talk with you?
NEELIX: Yes. I'll be right back.
KIM: Sickbay's running short on emergency medkits. We're going to need a few more if we send another away team after the shuttle.
NEELIX: I've got half a dozen stockpiled in Cargo Bay two.
KIM: How is she?
NEELIX: On the Naomi anxiety Scale of one to ten, where one is a touch of insomnia and ten is a panic attack? About five.
SEVEN: Is this chair occupied? Yes or no would suffice.
NAOMI: No. I mean, yes.
SEVEN: Explain.
NAOMI: You can't sit here. Somebody else is sitting here.
SEVEN: Very well.
NEELIX: So, I thought we'd pay another visit to Sickbay. The Doctor says he has time to give you a botany lesson. What's wrong?
NAOMI: I am Borg.
NEELIX: No, you're not.
NAOMI: Can we go to the holodeck first? I want to play another Flotter story.
NEELIX: Well, the Doctor's expecting you.
NAOMI: I don't like Sickbay.
NEELIX: Why not?
NAOMI: It's full of creepy things. Alien organs and hyposprays.
NEELIX: Well, that's not true.
NAOMI: And the Doctor talks too much.
NEELIX: Well, that's his way.
NAOMI: Can't you reprogram him or something?
NEELIX: Oh, I don't think he'd like that very much. Come on.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Rumor has it there's a planetoid around here.
WILDMAN: Sorry, Tom. The storm is throwing off my readings. There's definitely a big rock nearby, I just can't find it.
TUVOK: The wave front is accelerating.
PARIS: How long till it hits us?
TUVOK: Less than two minutes.
PARIS: Gives me thirty seconds to land this thing. Samantha, I don't mean to rush you.
WILDMAN: Got it. Class M atmosphere, nickel-iron core, bemonite mantle.
PARIS: Bemonite. I want to land this shuttle, not bury it.
WILDMAN: Seventy three thousand kilometers, bearing zero mark four.
TUVOK: We've entered the upper atmosphere.
WILDMAN: Nothing but impact craters, volcanoes. We can't land here.
TUVOK: The storm is closing. Increasing shields to maximum.
PARIS: Just keep us away from the volcanoes and we'll be okay.
WILDMAN: I've got a big meteor crater, five hundred kilometers across, three point seven deep.
PARIS: I'll take it.
TUVOK: Starboard thrusters are down.
PARIS: Tuvok, if you don't have something positive to say.
WILDMAN: We're coming in too fast!
PARIS: Hang on!
PARIS: The Flyer has landed.
TUVOK: She needs immediate medical assistance.
WILDMAN: What happened?
PARIS: We made it.
WILDMAN: Delta Flyer's first landing. Where?
PARIS: About three kilometers beneath the surface. At least our primary hull's still in one piece.
WILDMAN: Wish I felt the same.
PARIS: You'll be all right. Minor concussion, a few fractures. Nothing I can't handle.
WILDMAN: You're a great nurse, but you're a lousy liar.
PARIS: You've got a punctured kidney, and you're bleeding internally. You need surgery.
WILDMAN: Voyager?
TUVOK: I've transmitted another distress call. No response.
PARIS: It's all this rock.
WILDMAN: I've got to talk to Naomi. Let her know we're okay.
TUVOK: Conserve your strength, Ensign. Mister Paris and I have the situation under control.
PARIS: Nice bedside manner, Tuvok. Sam, I'm going to give you a mild sedative and something for the pain. Any chance we could abandon the shuttle, make our way on foot?
TUVOK: Unlikely. Not only are we buried under several kilotons of rock, but the atmosphere in this cavern is flooded with fluorine gas.
PARIS: Nothing to do but sit back and enjoy the view.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We've weathered the ion storm and tracked the Delta Flyer to an M-class planetoid.

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm detecting a residual impulse signature in the upper atmosphere.
CHAKOTAY: Try to pinpoint their location.
JANEWAY: How's our littlest crew member?
NEELIX: She misses her mother, but I don't think she suspects anything. I was just about to take her to the holodeck for some more storytelling.
JANEWAY: Call me an optimist, Neelix, but I'm still counting on a happy ending.
NEELIX: Me, too.
KIM: Got it. The impulse wake leads to the northern hemisphere. Coordinates one twenty one mark sixteen.
JANEWAY: Any sign of them?
KIM: Plasma fires, hull fragments. Either they vaporized on impact or they're buried beneath the surface.
NEELIX: Any life signs? Maybe they beamed out before the crash.
JANEWAY: Harry, anything?
KIM: Nothing.
JANEWAY: We built the Delta Flyer to take a lot of punishment. I'm betting it held together. Commander, take rescue teams down to that crater. If sensors can't find them, we'll have to do it the hard way.
CHAKOTAY: Harry.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Now, see the organelle just over there? The one that looks like a little bitty potato?
NAOMI: The mitochondria?
EMH: Yes.
NAOMI: Mitochondria. The warp core of the cell.
EMH: Exactly. Now what if I told you that this fellow was invited to dinner, but never got around to leaving?
NAOMI: What do you mean?
EMH: Well, turn back the clock a few billion years to when cells first evolved. These early cells had no mitochondria. They struggled along without them, making do with whatever energy sources they could find. Then, one day a mitochondrial ancestor arrived, broke though the cell wall, and made himself at home.
NAOMI: They became friends?
EMH: The correct term is symbiosis.
NAOMI: Friends.
EMH: Friends.
NAOMI: My mom says cooperation is more important than competition.
EMH: Mmm hmm.
NAOMI: She was supposed to call me today.
EMH: Well, she's probably just a little busy. Now, let's have a look at the cell wall. It looks simple enough, but believe you me there's more here than meets the eye.
NAOMI: Can we try to call her?
EMH: Neelix, what a pleasure to see you!
NEELIX: How was school today?
NAOMI: Good.
NEELIX: There's a time for school, and there's a time for
NAOMI: Flotter!
NEELIX: Aren't you forgetting something?
NAOMI: Oh. Thank you, Doctor.
EMH: You're quite welcome, Miss Wildman.

[Corridor]
NAOMI: In the blink of an eye there was Trevis above us.
NEELIX: Then what happened?
NAOMI: He turned out to be very nice. His bark was worse than his bite.
NEELIX: Where did you learn to make such silly puns?
NAOMI: You.
NEELIX: Oh.
NAOMI: Neelix, did you have a favorite holodeck program when you were growing up?
NEELIX: Well, we didn't have holodecks on Rinax, but it didn't matter because we had a great big forest right behind my house.
NAOMI: Really?
NEELIX: And my sisters and I would go exploring every day. We'd make up our own stories.

[Turbolift]
NAOMI: Imagination.
NEELIX: Exactly.
NAOMI: Deck six, section nine. Where are your sisters now?
NEELIX: Oh, they're far away from here. I haven't seen them in a very long time.
NAOMI: How long?
NEELIX: Many years.
NAOMI: But you haven't been on Voyager for that long.
NEELIX: True, but before that, my work as a trader kept me away from home.
NAOMI: That's too bad.

[Corridor]
NAOMI: Do your sisters ever call you like my mom does when she's on an away mission?
NEELIX: No.
NAOMI: I bet you miss them.
NEELIX: I do, very much. Here we are. Computer, display chapter headings, The Adventures of Flotter. Let's see. Ah, Flotter and the Tree Monster?
NAOMI: Played that one yesterday.
NEELIX: Okay. Trevis and the Terribly Twisted Trunk.
NAOMI: I promised I'd save that one for mom. It's her favorite.
NEELIX: Flotter, Trevis and the Ogre of Fire.
NAOMI: Yeah, that one.
NEELIX: It sounds a little scary.
NAOMI: It's okay. I won't be scared if you're with me.

[Holodeck - The Forest of Forever]
COMPUTER: Once upon a time in the Forest of Forever, Flotter and Trevis encountered a strange element they'd never seen before.
NAOMI: Trevis, you're on fire!
FLOTTER: I told him not to touch it, but this blockhead never listens.
NAOMI: Stop complaining and help him.
FLOTTER: Me?
NAOMI: Water puts out fire.
TREVIS: Oh, thank you!
FLOTTER: Hey, it worked! Watch this.
NEELIX: Good thinking, Naomi.
FLOTTER: Who's the furball?
NEELIX: The name's Neelix.
NAOMI: What caused the fire?
TREVIS: It came from up there.
FLOTTER: In a flash.
NAOMI: Lightning. But the sky is clear. Doesn't look like a thunderstorm.
NEELIX: What's your theory, Naomi?
NAOMI: There's only one other explanation. The Ogre of Fire.
FLOTTER: The Ogre?
TREVIS: Of Fire.
FLOTTER: Who's he?
OGRE (voiceover): He is me, and I'm going to burn this forest to the ground!
NAOMI: Flotter!
NEELIX: Maybe, maybe we should play another program.
NAOMI: No, we have to find Flotter. Hello, is anyone there?
TREVIS: Over here.
NAOMI: Trevis, are you all right?
TREVIS: Ah hah. A little hot under the bark maybe.
NAOMI: What about Flotter? Is he dead? Neelix?
NEELIX: Well, I, I don't know.
NAOMI: He can't be dead. Flotter!
NEELIX: I think it's your bedtime.
NAOMI: But I want to find Flotter.
NEELIX: Now, don't argue with your godfather. Come on, now.

[Engineering]
KIM: Take this to Lieutenant Torres. You'll find the phaser drills in Cargo Bay three.
CREWMAN: Aye, sir.
NEELIX: Are you sure you have time for this? I know you're busy.
KIM: No problem. Glad to be of service.
NEELIX: Maybe a shade bluer. And the head's a little disproportionate don't you think?
KIM: We're not shooting for an exact replica, Neelix. Artistic license.
NEELIX: Sorry. Guess I shouldn't barge into your kitchen and tell you how to cook.
KIM: Flotter. Now there's a name I haven't heard in a while. I used to be nuts about those holostories when I was a kid. Did you see the one where Flotter suspects Trevis to be a rubber tree?
NEELIX: Not yet.
KIM: He keeps trying to trip him to see if he'll bounce. Yeah, those two were a lot of fun.
NEELIX: Actually, the last scenario that Naomi chose was pretty frightening. No fun at all.
KIM: Kids love to be scared.
NEELIX: Not Naomi.
KIM: Computer, transfer the design parameters to the replicator. How's she holding up?
NEELIX: Fine. Right now she's busy with her homework.
KIM: Neelix, what's wrong?
NEELIX: Everything. Everything's wrong! Ion storms, crash landings, alien attacks. A starship's no place for a child.
KIM: I don't know. I'd say Naomi's pretty lucky to be growing up on Voyager.
NEELIX: Lucky?
KIM: Think about it. Think about all the things she's experienced, stars being born, supernovas, lifeforms no one from the Alpha Quadrant has seen before. When I was a kid I would have given anything for a chance like this. Well, here goes.
KIM: Hi, Neelix. Did you miss me? You know, I forgot how ugly this guy was.
NEELIX: Thanks, Ensign.

[Wildman's Quarters - Naomi's Bedroom]
NEELIX: Naomi. Guess who I found in the replicator?
NAOMI: Thanks, but that's not really Flotter.
NEELIX: Flotter's not really Flotter. He's just a holodeck character. What are you working on?
NAOMI: I'm researching the evaporation of water.
NEELIX: Why?
NAOMI: Well, I've been thinking. Water doesn't just disappear when it's heated. It turns into invisible gas. So, if we could get the forest to cool down enough, Flotter might re-liquefy.
NEELIX: Clever.
NAOMI: I miss mom.
NEELIX: I know you do.
NAOMI: When's she coming back?
NEELIX: Soon.
NAOMI: Why hasn't she called?
NEELIX: She must be very busy, cataloging all the geological specimens she's collected.
NAOMI: Has anybody talked to her?
NEELIX: Well, not in a day or two, but.
NAOMI: Starfleet regulation four seven six dash nine. All away teams must report to the bridge at least once every twenty four hours.
NEELIX: You really are going to make an excellent Captain's Assistant.
NAOMI: Has something bad happened to them?
NEELIX: I'm sure everything's fine. Come on, now. Bed.
NAOMI: Promise to wake me up if mommy calls?
NEELIX: Promise.
NAOMI: Even if it's oh two hundred hours?
NEELIX: Even if it's oh two hundred hours. Sweet dreams.
NAOMI: Neelix?

[Wildman's Quarters - living room]
NEELIX: Computer, access personal database, Neelix. File index two nine one. Hello, Alixia. I'm sorry it's been so many weeks since I've thought about you, but we've been very busy here on Voyager. I miss you. My goddaughter, Naomi, she's in trouble. We're in trouble. She may lose her mother. Alixia, you always knew the right thing to do, the right thing to say. I wish you were here to help me.

[Dream - Forest of Forever]
NEELIX: Come on! Hurry! We're under attack!
NEELIX: Get up! The Meteron cascade! Run!

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Computer, switch to polythermal imaging and enhance resolution. Neelix, do you require assistance?
NEELIX: No. No, I was just passing by. I thought I'd pay you a visit, see how things were going. How are things going?
SEVEN: I'm mapping the caverns surrounding the crash site.
NEELIX: How far do they extend?
SEVEN: Approximately thirty seven kilometers.
NEELIX: What about the search? Anything new?
SEVEN: Every scan reveals something new, but as yet little of relevance.
NEELIX: Seven. Your family, your human family, do you ever think about them?
SEVEN: Infrequently. I was only six years old when I was assimilated.
NEELIX: Not much older than Naomi is now. Do you miss your parents?
SEVEN: I barely remember them.
NEELIX: Maybe that's a blessing.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Rescue team alpha to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Yes, Commander.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We need that data.
SEVEN: I will meet you at the transporter site. I adapted. The child Naomi will adapt as well.
NEELIX: Borg wisdom.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Lieutenant, get me an update from Beta team. They haven't checking in for over an hour.
NEELIX: Coffee, anyone? Captain?
JANEWAY: No thanks, I've had enough. One more cup and I'll jump to warp.
NEELIX: Any new?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid not.
NEELIX: No debris? No lifesigns?
JANEWAY: We've got three teams beneath the surface. So far, nothing.
NEELIX: So much for that happy ending.
JANEWAY: We'll turn that planetoid inside out if we have to, but I think we have to be prepared for the worst. Maybe it's time you told Naomi.
NEELIX: No, not yet.
JANEWAY: She's an astute girl. She must be aware that something's wrong by now.
NEELIX: She's been asking a lot of tough questions. Why hasn't her mother filed a status report? What if she's in trouble? But I've got a big day planned for her tomorrow. Plenty of distractions. She won't have time to be worried.
JANEWAY: Your mission was to keep her occupied, not to lie to her. First thing in the morning, I want you to explain the situation.
NEELIX: I don't think that's such a good idea.
JANEWAY: Why not?
NEELIX: Like I told you, she's sensitive.
JANEWAY: All the more reason to answer her questions.
NEELIX: With all due respect, Captain, I'm her godfather. I know what's best for her.
JANEWAY: Neelix.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: I realize you care about Naomi and you are only trying to protect her, but you've got to tell her the truth.
NEELIX: Good morning, Naomi. Would you like some papalla juice with your cereal? And, oh, by the way, your mother is buried under thirty kilotons of rock.
JANEWAY: Neelix.
NEELIX: When we know something for sure. When we find her mother, alive or dead, I'll, I'll tell her then. Not before.
JANEWAY: If you can't do it, I will.
NEELIX: You don't have the right. You don't understand what's at stake here! When you were her age you were safe and sound on Earth with two healthy parents to take care of you. You never had to worry about the possibility of being alone! You take it from me, you wouldn't have liked it.
JANEWAY: Oh, I know. You must identify with Naomi's situation.
NEELIX: When my family was killed, I lost everything. I still have nightmares. It hasn't been easy. I don't want Naomi to go through what I did.
JANEWAY: I understand. And you're right. But this situation is different.
NEELIX: How so?
JANEWAY: Naomi has you. Neelix, she has to be told. But I know she'll be better off having you here to help her through it.
NEELIX: First thing in the morning.
JANEWAY: We've got a few hours until then. Why don't you come back on the bridge, give us a hand.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Ready, Tuvok?
TUVOK: Ready.
PARIS: Cross your fingers.
TUVOK: The magnetic relays have overloaded.
PARIS: Well, we'd better find another way to polarize this hull, or their sensors won't be able to pick us up.
WILDMAN: We're never getting out of here.
TUVOK: Do not give up hope. The probability of our being rescued is low, but not statistically impossible.
PARIS: Comforting.
WILDMAN: Who's going to look after Naomi?
TUVOK: You should not concern yourself with that now.
WILDMAN: How can you say that?
TUVOK: My youngest child has been without a father for four years, yet I am certain of her well-being, that I conveyed my values to her before leaving. And I have confidence in the integrity of those around her. You have been an exemplary mother to Naomi, and she is in the hands of people you trust. She will survive and prosper, no matter what becomes of us.
WILDMAN: Thanks, Tuvok.

[Wildman's quarters]
NAOMI: Mom! Neelix? Computer, locate Neelix.
COMPUTER: Neelix is on the Bridge.
NAOMI: Thanks.

[Corridor]
TORRES: Strickler, we need three more phaser drills. You two, pattern enhancers and medkits.
CREWMAN: Aye, sir.
TORRES: We're going to have to recalibrate these tricorders.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: Put us with the alpha team.
CREWWOMAN: Setting coordinates.
TORRES: Energize.

[Turbolift]
NAOMI: Deck one bridge.

[Planetoid - cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. We've found what looks like a piece of the starboard nacelle.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Any sign of the shuttle itself?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Not yet.
SEVEN (voiceover): Captain, the cavern has collapsed ahead of us. However, I am reading a hull signature behind the debris.
JANEWAY: The Flyer?
SEVEN (voiceover): I'll need to take a closer reading.
JANEWAY: Do it. I want Alpha and Beta teams to search for survivors. Tell sickbay to stand by for heavy casualties.
NEELIX: Naomi. Naomi?

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Naomi! Computer, locate Naomi Wildman.
COMPUTER: Naomi Wildman is in her quarters.

[Wildman's quarters - Naomi's bedroom]
NEELIX: Clever.

[outside the Holodeck]
NAOMI: Computer, resume program, Flotter, Trevis and the Ogre of Fire.
COMPUTER: Program activated.

[Planetoid - cavern]
SEVEN: Commander, I'm reading duranium alloys. I believe it is the shuttle. Approximately eighty meters beneath this rubble.
CHAKOTAY: Lifesigns?
SEVEN: None. Commander, without lifesigns to lock onto we cannot beam the crew out.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we can transport the entire ship to the shuttle bay.
SEVEN: Through fifty kilotons of bemonite?
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway here.
CHAKOTAY: We think we've found the shuttle, but we need to dig it out.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Have all teams rendezvous at my coordinates.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged.

[Planetoid - cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Phaser drills here and here.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: But hey, B'Elanna, look on the bright side. No more day-old pizza laying around, and you'll never have to watch another chapter of Captain Proton again.
COMPUTER: Warning. Life support has fallen to critical levels.
PARIS: Don't mind the computer. She's just jealous that I'm spending my last few minutes talking to you. So long.
PARIS: Sam, it's your turn.
WILDMAN: I haven't thought what to say yet. Tuvok, why don't you go next?
TUVOK: I prefer to make my farewells in written form.
WILDMAN: Computer, begin recording. Encode message for delivery to Naomi Wildman.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.
WILDMAN: Hi, honey. I know you're feeling sad right now but, I want you to listen to me very carefully, okay? First of all, I love you. Second, I want you to know that I'm proud of you. How smart you are, how funny, how kind you are to other people, and I know that you are going to grow up to do extraordinary things. Last, and I know this is a hard one, try not to be scared.
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in ten minutes.
WILDMAN: Listen to Neelix. He'll be taking care of you now. Bye, honey.

[Holodeck - Forest of Forever]
NEELIX: Naomi?
TREVIS: Go away!
NEELIX: Where is she?
TREVIS: She doesn't want to talk to you.
FLOTTER: You lied.
NEELIX: I thought you vaporized.
FLOTTER: Naomi re-liquefied me. Now leave.
NEELIX: Computer, delete characters.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Holodeck controls have been encoded.
TREVIS: Delete us?
FLOTTER: I wonder if this liar can swim?
TREVIS: We can always hang him from one of my branches.
NEELIX: Naomi, please let me talk to you.
NAOMI: It's okay.
TREVIS: You be nice.
FLOTTER: No more lying.
NEELIX: Hey there.
NAOMI: Is my mother dead?
NEELIX: We don't know.
NAOMI: What happened?
NEELIX: The away team was trying to avoid an ion storm. They had to land on a planet.
NAOMI: I saw that crater. Something was burning.
NEELIX: Plasma fires, pieces of debris, but not the hull. Until we know for sure what's happened, no one's giving up on the rescue attempt.
NAOMI: You really think they might find her?
NEELIX: Yes.
NAOMI: How do I know you're telling me the truth this time?
NEELIX: I never told you this before, but when I was much younger I lost my mom in a terrible war. My father and my sisters too. It was the worst thing that ever happened to me. Always wondering, how did they die? Were they worried about me? Could they still be alive? I thought if I could just keep you from wondering, you wouldn't have to feel what I did.
NAOMI: You were pretending that nothing was wrong. That nothing bad happened. Do you ever pretend that nothing bad happened to your family?
NEELIX: Sometimes.
NAOMI: Does it help?
NEELIX: Not really.
NAOMI: Don't be sad, Neelix.
JANEWAY (voiceover): All hands to emergency stations. We've got a level eight ion storm approaching.
FLOTTER: Ion storm? What's that?
TREVIS: Ogre of Fire! He's attacking us again.
NEELIX: You'd better get back to your quarters.
FLOTTER: Naomi, don't leave us.
NAOMI: I'll be back, I promise.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Voyager to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
JANEWAY: We've got another ion storm approaching. When it hits the planetoid, your entire cavern is going to destabilize.

[Planetoid - cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Just a few more meters and we'll be close enough to beam out the shuttle. How long before the storm hits?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Six minutes.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Make the most of it. It's all you've got.
KIM: The storm's moving in. Shields down to eighty six percent.
JANEWAY: Keep the transporter lock on the away team. Give them to the last second. Helm, lay in a course out of here. Stand by to engage at warp two.
CREWWOMAN: Aye, sir.

[Delta Flyer]
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in two minutes.
PARIS: I never thought it would come down to this. Suffocating beneath kilotons of rock on some nameless planetoid.
TUVOK: Did you envision a more heroic death?
PARIS: I didn't envision dying at all.
TUVOK: In accepting the inevitable, one finds peace.
PARIS: If that's another Vulcan saying, Tuvok, I'll stick with live long and prosper.
PARIS: We're here. We're here!

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Voyager.
JANEWAY: Yes, Commander.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Pattern enhancers are in place. We're ready to transport the Flyer.
KIM: Locking on. They're in the shuttlebay.
JANEWAY: Helm, engage.

[Sickbay]
WILDMAN: Thank you.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Ensign Wildman has recovered from her injuries, and the Delta Flyer, though battered, is intact.

[Holodeck - Forest of Forever]
FLOTTER: And how are you today, Mister Trevis?
TREVIS: Feeling a little stiff, my slippery friend. And you?
FLOTTER: Now that you mention it, I'm feeling a little washed out.
TREVIS: Well, it's about time you showed up. The tea is getting cold.
FLOTTER: Samantha? Is it really you?
WILDMAN: Long time no see.
FLOTTER: You're all grown up.
WILDMAN: I'm an Ensign now.
FLOTTER: I've missed you.
WILDMAN: Likewise.
NEELIX: Well, now that you're all reacquainted, I think you're all eager for a new adventure.
FLOTTER: Now that you mention it, there is a castle that I've been meaning to explore.
NAOMI: Castle?
FLOTTER: I hear a giant beetle lives there.
NAOMI: Come on, Neelix.
NEELIX: You go ahead.
WILDMAN: See you later.
JANEWAY: Here's to happy endings.
NEELIX: Captain!
JANEWAY: Just checking on my future Captain's Assistant.
NEELIX: Right now, she's off to conquer a giant beetle.
JANEWAY: Oh, sounds like a dangerous mission.
NEELIX: She can handle it.
JANEWAY: She's a courageous girl. Did I ever tell you about the time I flooded this entire forest? I was six years old. Flotter claimed we were in for a dry spell so I came up with the obvious solution. Why not just divert the river? This entire forest was a swamp by the time we were done. At which point, Stinger was born.
NEELIX: Stinger?
JANEWAY: The biggest mosquito.

[Glacier surface]
KIM: We're here!
KIM: The glacier fractures are stable.
CHAKOTAY: We're clear to beam inside.
TESSA (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Frozen Corridor]
KIM: Not exactly the way I remember it.
KIM: Power grid's been destroyed. Neural gel packs frozen solid. Decks nine through fourteen are now deck ten. They've been compacted.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like they hit the ice at full impulse. The EMH?
KIM: I'm trying to access Sickbay. The relays aren't responding. I'm losing the interface. Reset the power cell. Come on!
CHAKOTAY: Let's get moving. Keep an open comm. link.

[Frozen Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Tessa.

[Delta Flyer]
TESSA: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I've found her. Lock on to the

[Frozen Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Transporter relay and beam her to the lab.
TESSA (voiceover): Stand by.
CHAKOTAY: Make it quick. This isn't exactly a happy reunion.

[Delta Flyer]
TESSA: I've got a lock.

[Frozen Sickbay]
EMH: Please state the nature of
KIM: Long time no see.
EMH: Ensign.
KIM: I go by Harry now. It's a long story. Where's your mobile emitter?
EMH: What's happened to the ship? The crew?
KIM: No time. The emitter.
EMH: It's in here, but
KIM: Here. Slap it on. Ket's go.
EMH: Wait! I demand an explanation.
CHAKOTAY: I'll give you one. We're here to change history.

[2375 Engineering]
JANEWAY: Ladies and gentlemen, please. May I introduce the next generation of instellar propulsion, the Quantum Slipstream Drive. Four years, two months, eleven days. That's precisely how long Voyager's been in the Delta Quadrant. During that time we've advanced the frontiers of exploration, and more importantly, we've survived. Now it's time to go home. Enjoy the celebration but keep in mind we've still got a lot of work to do before tomorrow's flight. Go easy on that champagne, Lieutenant.
JANEWAY: Quantum Matrix, benamite crystals, Borg technology. Can you imagine what Starfleet is going to say?
CHAKOTAY: I don't think we'll hear any complaints. The Federation's first Slipstream drive. They'll probably nominate us for the Cochrane Medal of Honor.
JANEWAY: I'll start working on my acceptance speech.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like to thank the Borg Collective.
JANEWAY: Dinner plans?
CHAKOTAY: Nothing special. Date with a replicator.
JANEWAY: Cancel it, that's an order.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
NEELIX: Lieutenant. Lieutenant! Excuse me. My contribution to the Slipstream Drive.
TORRES: Thanks. What is it?
NEELIX: A Talaxian fur fly. An old spacefaring tradition among my people. If one of these creatures stowed away on your ship, it was a sign of good fortune. I had this little fellow preserved. He hung in my engine room for six years.
TORRES: Cute.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, you are an unending source of astonishment.
NEELIX: Why, thank you, Mister Vulcan.
EMH: Seven?
SEVEN: My visual processors and motor cortex. They are malfunctioning.
EMH: Sounds like a problem with your cortical implant. We'd better have a look. Hold still.
SEVEN: I cannot comply.
EMH: You're intoxicated.
SEVEN: Impossible.
EMH: Your blood synthehol level is point zero five percent. How many glasses of champagne did you consume?
SEVEN: One.
EMH: Obviously the Borg can't hold their liquor. Come to Sickbay. I'll give you some inaprovaline to counteract the effects.
SEVEN: I was simply trying to perfect my social skills as you instructed me to do.
EMH: And you're doing a fine job.
SEVEN: You have always been of enormous assistance to me, Doctor. You are my mentor.
EMH: Yes.
SEVEN: We are as one. We are as one.
KIM: Did you see that?
PARIS: Hmm?
KIM: I think our drone did a little too much celebrating. Speaking of which, when are you going to join the party?
PARIS: In a minute.
KIM: You're running a warp core diagnostic now?
PARIS: Harry, I think we built an Edsel.
KIM: A what?
PARIS: A lemon. A disaster waiting to happen! I ran a simulation last night and I discovered a point four two phase variance in the slipstream threshold.
KIM: Point four two? So it'll be a bumpy ride. We've flown through worse.
PARIS: If we get knocked out of that slipstream mid-flight it could overload the quantum matrix.
KIM: Did you tell the Captain?
PARIS: Not yet. Didn't want to spoil the festivities until I was sure.
KIM: Tom, if it'll make you feel better, we'll go to the holodeck right now, run a few more simulations. It's probably just a sensor glitch.

[2375 Holodeck - Bridge]
PARIS: We're at full impulse.
KIM: Engaging Slipstream Drive. Quantum field is stable, deflector at maximum.
PARIS: Slipstream velocity in four, three, two. Power output is steady. Quantum field is holding.
KIM: Shields down to seventy three percent.
PARIS: Looking good. Keep that deflector aligned and we should be
KIM: We've got a phase variance. Point one, point two.
PARIS: Remodulate the deflector.
KIM: No effect. Point four.
PARIS: I'm shutting down the drive.
KIM: No, wait. I want to try to invert the Quantum field.
PARIS: It's no use, the slipstream is collapsing. Inertial dampers are offline.
COMPUTER: Warning. Hull breach on deck ten.
KIM: We're losing structural integrity.
PARIS: Computer, freeze program!
KIM: One more time. I think if we reroute emergency power to the deflector a little earlier
PARIS: It won't help.
KIM: Computer, restart simulation at time index
PARIS: Computer, belay that order. It's no use, Harry.
KIM: We can't just give up.
PARIS: Twenty three simulations, twenty three catastrophes. This is no sensor glitch. We've got to tell them.

[2375 Engineering]
TORRES: That can't be right. We tested this engine molecule by molecule.
PARIS: I'm sorry, B'Elanna.
SEVEN: I wish to examine the results of the simulation.
PARIS: Holodeck two. Run them for yourself. That is, if you don't mind being vaporized a few dozen times.
CHAKOTAY: I looked at their findings, Captain. If we try to take that flight in the morning, we'll be in escape pods by afternoon.
TUVOK: It would appear we have no choice but to cancel it.
PARIS: Either that or, we can try it Harry's way.
JANEWAY: Ensign?
KIM: I've got an idea. It's tricky, but I think it could work. The trouble begins about seventeen seconds into the flight. The phase variance kicks in and the Slipstream becomes unstable. What we need is someone in a shuttle to ride the rapids in front of Voyager.
TORRES: Yes. They could map the threshold of the Slipstream as it's forming and send the phase corrections back to us. That is a great idea, Harry.
KIM: Now, here's the tricky part. The shuttle will only be a couple of seconds ahead of Voyager. That doesn't give auto-navigation much time to compensate.
JANEWAY: Tom?
PARIS: Couple of seconds?
KIM: We can do this, Captain. Put me on that shuttle. I'll get Voyager through the Slipstream. What choice do we have? Take the drive offline? Months of work for nothing?
TUVOK: We built a highly experimental piece of technology. There were bound to be setbacks.
KIM: The benamite crystals at the heart of this engine have already started to decay. It could take years to synthesize more. I don't know about the rest of you, but I didn't do all this work just to be stopped by a point four two phase variance. No offense, Captain.
JANEWAY: None taken. All right, Mister Kim. You've convinced me. Prepare a flight plan and have it on my desk within the hour.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: I'll let you know what I decide.

[2375 Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Come in. Commander, I hope you've got an appetite.
CHAKOTAY: Famished, but I assumed you called me here to talk about the Slipstream flight.
JANEWAY: No reason to cancel our dinner plans. I've programmed a dish my grandmother used to make back on Earth. Vegetable biryani.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds delicious. I didn't know you could cook.
JANEWAY: Normally, I draw the line at a pot of coffee, but tonight is a special occasion.
CHAKOTAY: Oh?
JANEWAY: Our last night in the Delta Quadrant. I'd say that's special enough.
CHAKOTAY: You've made your decision.
JANEWAY: We launch tomorrow at oh eight hundred. You and Harry will take the Delta Flyer. Voyager will be right behind you.
CHAKOTAY: The crew will be pleased.
JANEWAY: You can give them the news yourself, after dessert. What about you, Chakotay? What do you think about my decision?
CHAKOTAY: I've analyzed Harry's flight plan. The theory is sound, but there are just too many variables. If something goes wrong in that slipstream
JANEWAY: It could be our only chance to use the Quantum Drive.
CHAKOTAY: True, but if you showed this data to any Starfleet engineer, they'd think we were out of our minds. We can find another way home. We've waited this long.
JANEWAY: Long enough. We've waited long enough. I know it's a risk, probably our biggest one yet, but I'm willing to take it. Are you with me?
CHAKOTAY: Always.
JANEWAY: Speaking of risks. Are you ready to try some home cooking?
CHAKOTAY: I'll alert Sickbay.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]
EMH: Fifteen years?
KIM: Give or take a few weeks.
EMH: Where are we?
CHAKOTAY: In the Takara sector, just outside the Alpha quadrant.
EMH: The crew?
KIM: Except for us, dead.
CHAKOTAY: We think Captain Janeway tried to make an emergency landing on this planet. The ship must have been too heavily damaged. They were all killed on impact.
KIM: They've been buried inside a glacier for the past fifteen years.
EMH: You two were here, on the Delta Flyer, ahead of Voyager. You made it.
KIM: All the way back to Earth. We got home, Doc, and all it took was killing everyone we cared about.
CHAKOTAY: Harry!
EMH: Starfleet certainly took their time finding us.
KIM: Starfleet. Starfleet gave up their search for Voyager over nine years ago. We had to find you on our own.
EMH: Well, I don't know what to say except thank you. I suppose I'd have stayed in that deep freeze forever.
CHAKOTAY: We're not here to salvage your program. We're here to prevent this disaster from ever happening.
KIM: You see Doc, fifteen years ago, I miscalculated the Slipstream threshold and transmitted the wrong phase corrections to Voyager. Boom! They were knocked out of the Slipstream and sent to an icy death. Thank you, Ensign Kim. But I've had a long time to rethink my mistake, and now I know how to fix it. So, we're going to send Voyager a new set of phase corrections.
EMH: Isn't it a little late for that?
CHAKOTAY: We've found a way to communicate with Voyager, in the past, just before the accident.
KIM: Better late than never.
EMH: A message back through time?
CHAKOTAY: Exactly.
EMH: How?
EMH: I don't understand.
CHAKOTAY: One of her cranial implants is a transceiver designed to communicate with other drones.
EMH: That's right. It's called an interplexing beacon.
CHAKOTAY: We want you to extract the beacon and determine its translink frequency.
EMH: That shouldn't be a problem. She looks reasonably well-preserved.
CHAKOTAY: Good. That'll tell us where to send the message. Now the hard part. We need to know when to send it. Can you access Seven's chronometric node and pinpoint the exact moment her cybernetic implants disengaged from her organic systems?
EMH: Her time of death?
CHAKOTAY: Down to the millisecond, if possible.
EMH: I'll see what I can do.
KIM: I told you he'd come in handy.
EMH: You said you'd found a way to communicate with Seven in the past. How?
KIM: Behold. Salvage component three six six nine eight. A Borg temporal transmitter.
CHAKOTAY: Starfleet Intelligence found it in the wreckage of a Borg cube in the Beta Quadrant.
KIM: We stole it.
TESSA: Trouble. Long range sensors are picking up a Federation vessel.
CHAKOTAY: How much time do we have?
TESSA: I entered a low orbit and remodulated our shields, but it won't be long before they find us. Six hours if we're lucky.
EMH: Let me get this straight. You're fugitives?
KIM: The Galaxy's most wanted. We stole the Delta Flyer too, right out of a Federation shipyard. We're wanted on two counts of high treason and conspiracy to violate the Temporal Prime Directive.
EMH: Wonderful. Out of the icebox and into the fire.
CHAKOTAY: We don't have time for this. Get started.
EMH: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: We still have to retrieve those sensor logs. Get ready.
TESSA: Hello, Doctor.
EMH: Do I know you?
TESSA: No, but I feel like we're old friends. Tessa Omond.
EMH: Hello.
TESSA: It's an honor to finally meet Voyager's infamous EMH.
EMH: Infamous?
KIM: I've told her a few horror stories.
TESSA: Actually, they've always spoken very highly of you.
EMH: Ah ha. And how did you get involved with Bonnie and Clyde here?
TESSA: Oh, I've had an interest in Voyager for a long time.
KIM: They're having sex.
EMH: Pardon?
KIM: Chakotay and Tess. They're a couple, joined at the hip.
TESSA: The truth is, Doctor, I didn't want Chakotay or Harry to have to face this alone. I thought I could help.
CHAKOTAY: Ready?
KIM: Stay warm.

[2390 Frozen Bridge]
TESSA: These controls are a little clumsy. I thought you said this ship was state of the art.
CHAKOTAY: It was, at the time.
TESSA: I've located the sensor logs but, the computer is denying me access.
CHAKOTAY: My command codes should still carry some weight.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like there's an active file here.
JANEWAY (voiceover): But should our luck run out, I'd like to say for the record that the crew Voyager acted distinction and valor.
TESSA: You okay?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. It's just the last time I was in this chair, they were all here. Alive.
TESSA: We're here to get them back.
CHAKOTAY: Can I see that tricorder?
CHAKOTAY: It's downloading. Give it a minute.
TESSA: I don't supposed we have time for a tour.
CHAKOTAY: Afraid not. Besides, I left my quarters a mess. In just a few hours, if all goes as planned, we'll have changed history. The past fifteen years erased. We don't have to do this.
TESSA: Now you tell me.
CHAKOTAY: I'm serious.
TESSA: So am I, and I have no intentions of backing out. Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Look at me. Last minute jitters, cold feet, I don't know what to call it. Ridiculous, isn't it? After all these years working toward this moment, and when it finally comes, all I can think about is losing you.
TESSA: Your heart has always been here, on Voyager. That'll never change. This is where you belong. And who knows, maybe we'll meet someday.
CHAKOTAY: But if we don't.
TESSA: Then I'll miss you all the same.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]
KIM: It means all of that has changed. You owe me one.
EMH: Mister Kim, your assistance please.
KIM: Got to go.
EMH: What was that all about?
KIM: Oh, nothing. Letter to a friend. How's it look?
EMH: No damage to the infrastructure, but I'll need an isoprobe.
KIM: Way ahead of you, Doc.
EMH: So what was it like, your homecoming?
KIM: Antimatter fireworks, long-winded dignitaries, a Vulcan children's choir. Oh, we got medals pinned to our tunics. Chakotay gave a speech commemorating the Voyager crew. Brought a tear to everyone's eye. Admiral McIntire even wanted me to marry his daughter.
EMH: At least you weren't buried under twenty meters of ice.
KIM: You don't know how many times I wished I was.
EMH: I suppose it must have been difficult, with all your friends and colleagues left behind.
KIM: Survivor guilt. Yeah, I heard a lot about that from the counselors back at Headquarters. You must learn to accept the fact that you lived. Embrace life, move forward. I signed on at the first deep space vessel I could find. We tried to calculate where Voyager might have fallen out of the slipstream. Four years of searching. We were close, I could feel it! Then Starfleet Command said it was time to end the search. Low probability of success. All those admirals who shook my hand at the homecoming. I went to see every last one of them, begged them to keep the search alive. Pretty soon even Admiral McIntire stopped returning my calls. So I resigned from Starfleet.
EMH: For the record, Seven's translink frequency is one zero eight point four four two three six zero zero zero.
KIM: Could be our lucky number. I'm encoding it now.
EMH: When did you embark on your life of crime?
KIM: The second I heard about this little gem.
EMH: Mister Kim, did you ever stop to think about what you're trying to do here? Altering the timeline may make things worse. At least you and Chakotay survived. Why tempt fate?
KIM: This timeline only exists because I made a mistake fifteen years ago. The crew trusted in me and I let them down.
COMPUTER: Tactical alert. Vessel approaching, bearing one eight four mark seven.

[2390 Delta Flyer]
KIM: They've found us. Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
KIM: Starfleet's on an intercept course. It's now or never.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We're on our way.
KIM: If you're having doubts let me know. I'll take your program offline. But if you're with us, we tempt fate together.
EMH: To aid an honorable thief, or to spend eternity in cybernetic oblivion. Let's tempt fate.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 52143.6. With any luck, my next log entry will be made in the Alpha quadrant. But should our luck run out, I'd like to say for the record that the crew of Voyager acted with distinction and valor.

[2375 Delta Flyer]
CHAKOTAY: Shield generators?
KIM: Online.
CHAKOTAY: Plasma flow?
KIM: Stable.
CHAKOTAY: Comm. link?
KIM: Secure.
CHAKOTAY: Lunch.
KIM: Salami sandwiches.
CHAKOTAY: Feel up to this, Ensign?
KIM: Yes, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. We're ready.

[2375 Bridge]
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Take your stations, secure all systems, and stand by for the jump to Slipstream.
SEVEN: I've established a telemetry link with the shuttle.
JANEWAY: Match their course and speed.

[2390 Delta Flyer]
TESSA: They're gaining on us. Two hundred thousand kilometers and closing. You call these evasive maneuvers?
CHAKOTAY: I'm doing my best. Harry, status!

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]
KIM: The Borg transmitter's online but I'm still waiting for the Doctor to give me the temporal coordinates.
EMH: Just a few more minutes.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Speed it up. We've got a Galaxy class starship on our tail.
EMH: I'm working as fast as I can.

[2390 Delta Flyer]
TESSA: They're hailing us. You want to talk to them?
CHAKOTAY: Could buy us some time. Open a channel.
LAFORGE (screen): This is Captain La Forge of the Starship Challenger. You seem to be in quite a hurry.
CHAKOTAY: You could say that.
LAFORGE (screen): Why don't you shut down those impulse engines, drop your shields. Let's talk about this face-to-face.
CHAKOTAY: Mind if I take a rain check?
LAFORGE (screen): As a matter of fact, I do. We know what you're about to attempt and we can't let that happen, so the Federation Council is willing to make you an offer. Hand over the Borg transmitter, stand down your vessel, and the charges of conspiracy will be dropped.
TESSA: That's not much of an offer. If we succeed, those charges will never have existed in the first place.
LAFORGE (screen): If you succeed, countless lives will be affected.
CHAKOTAY: We're here to save one hundred and fifty lives. Our crew.
LAFORGE (screen): I understand and I might be doing the same thing if I were in your position, but I've got my own crew to protect, not to mention fifteen years of history. So, I'm asking you again. Stand down, and return the transmitter.
CHAKOTAY: You know I can't do that.
LAFORGE (screen): And you know I have to try to stop you.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, I know. Good luck.
LAFORGE (screen): Same to you.
TESSA: They're targeting our engines.
CHAKOTAY: Shields to full. Stand by weapons.

[2375 Bridge]
JANEWAY: Voyager to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Prepare to enter the Slipstream.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: Engage.
PARIS: Slipstream velocity in four, three, two.

[2390 Delta Flyer]
TESSA: Shields down to sixty two percent.
CHAKOTAY: Return fire.
TESSA: Direct hit. No effect on their shields. We're no match for them, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Keep trying.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]
KIM: I don't mean to be a pest, but we're losing power back here!
TESSA (voiceover): Hold on.

[2390 Delta Flyer - bridge]
TESSA: We're switching to emergency back-up.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]
KIM: Thank you. Doc, I need those temporal coordinates now!
EMH: Badgering me won't help.

[2375 Bridge]
SEVEN: I'm detecting a phase variance. Point one, point two.
JANEWAY: Helm?
PARIS: Still waiting for Harry.
SEVEN: Point three.
JANEWAY: Voyager to Delta Flyer. We need those corrections or we'll have to

[2375 Delta Flyer]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Shut down the drive.
KIM: We're on it, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: The threshold is fluctuating.
KIM: Okay, I can do this. I'm compensating for the spatial gradients. Deflector geometry stable. Got it!

[2375 Bridge]
PARIS: I'm receiving the phase corrections.
SEVEN: The phase variance is decreasing.
TUVOK: Shields are holding
JANEWAY: Looks like we're on our way.
SEVEN: Phase variance is increasing. Point three. Point four.
JANEWAY: Harry, what's happening?

[2375 Delta Flyer]
JANEWAY (voiceover): The phase variance is still increasing.
KIM: I'm not sure, Captain. It should be working.
JANEWAY (voiceover): I need an answer, Harry. We're running out of time.
KIM: Let me try recalibrating the sensors.

[2375 Bridge]
KIM (voiceover): I might be overcompensating for the variance in the
TUVOK: We've lost our comm. link.
PARIS: Telemetry's down too. The Slipstream's destabilizing.
JANEWAY: Shut down the drive!
PARIS: I can't. There's some kind of overload in the Quantum Matrix. I've lost helm control.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]
EMH: I have it. Her cybernetic systems were terminated on Stardate 52164.3. Borg time index: 9.43852. You're encoding the transmitter for time index 9.40? That's less than four minutes before Voyager was destroyed! Cutting it a little close, aren't we?
KIM: This is no ordinary phone call, Doc, We're talking to yesterday. Timing is everything. I want to make sure Seven of Nine gets the information at just the right moment. There. I'm bringing up the new phase corrections. This was where I failed fifteen years ago, Doc. This time will be different.

[2375 Bridge]
SEVEN: Captain, I am receiving a transmission.
JANEWAY: I thought you said the comm. link was down.
TUVOK: It is.
SEVEN: The signal is being routed through one of my cranial implants. It contains a new set of phase corrections.
JANEWAY: Does Harry know how to access your Borg systems?
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: He must have figured out a way. Enter the corrections.
SEVEN: They're not compensating for the phase variance. The Slipstream is collapsing.
JANEWAY: Full power to the deflector.
TUVOK: No effect.
PARIS: Our hull is buckling!
JANEWAY: Shields at maximum. Hold her steady, Tom.
PARIS: It's no use, we're losing attitude control. Inertial dampers offline!
JANEWAY: What about the Delta Flyer?
SEVEN: There is no sign of them. They must have remained in the Slipstream.

[2375 Delta Flyer]
CHAKOTAY: Voyager's been thrown into normal space.
KIM: Alter our Slipstream course. We've got to go back.
CHAKOTAY: We can't. Even if they survived re-entry at this velocity, we wouldn't.
KIM: What are you saying? We've got to find them!
CHAKOTAY: Ensign, there's no choice.

[2375 Bridge]
PARIS: Captain, we're just a few parsecs from the Alpha quadrant.
JANEWAY: Not exactly how I wanted to cross the finish line.
TUVOK: Hull breach on decks five through ten. We're losing life support. If we don't land the ship, we're risking structural collapse.
PARIS: I'm reading a planet nine million kilometers ahead. It's class L.
JANEWAY: Do it. We're coming in too fast! Reverse thrusters. All hands, brace for impact! (Voyager clips a mountain, then slams into the snow over the glacier. The hull digs in as they slide along.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]
KIM: We're still here. Why are we still here?
EMH: Mister Kim?
KIM: The new phase corrections didn't work.
EMH: Are you certain?
KIM: If Voyager had gotten through safely, we wouldn't still be here trying to save them. The transmitter's functioning. Seven must have received our message. Chakotay, problems.

[2390 Delta Flyer]
CHAKOTAY: I can see that.
TESSA: Our engines are down. They're locking onto us with a tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: Full thrusters.
TESSA: No effect.
CHAKOTAY: Do we have enough power to send a plasma surge through their tractor beam, break ourselves free?
TESSA: I think so, but the EPS relays have taken heavy damage. It could destabilize the warp core.
CHAKOTAY: If you want to beam over to that ship, I'll understand.
TESSA: And let you have all the fun?
CHAKOTAY: Harry, we just bought you a few more minutes.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]
KIM: Acknowledged.
EMH: I'm no time travel expert, but can't we just call Voyager again? The past isn't going anywhere.
KIM: That's not going to help if we don't know what to tell them. The Slipstream kinetics look right. Hyperdimensional progressions, perfect. Maybe it's the deflector geometry.

[2390 Delta Flyer]
TESSA: We're free.
CHAKOTAY: The EPS relays are overloading. Harry, we're looking at a possible core breach in less than three minutes. How's it

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Coming back there?
KIM: Great, just great! It took me ten years to make these corrections. I can't fix it in three minutes!
EMH: You've got to try.
KIM: I can't! It's not working. Why won't it work? I killed them!
EMH: Control yourself!
KIM: They trusted me, and I killed them!
EMH: Mister Kim! I didn't spend all those years in an ice bucket so I could listen to you berate yourself. If you want to wallow in self-pity, fine! Do it on your own time.
KIM: Don't you see? History's repeating itself! I destroyed Voyager once, and I'm doing it again!
EMH: Somebody has got to knuckle down and change history, and that somebody is you.
KIM: It can't be done, Doc. I told you.
EMH: No, you told me you can't correct their phase variance. All right, we have to accept that. But what about sending Voyager a warning? Is there a way to get them to abort the Slipstream flight?
KIM: Yes. Yes! I could send a phase correction which would disperse the Slipstream entirely.
EMH: If we can't get the crew home, at least we can save their lives.

[2390 Delta Flyer]
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in sixty seconds.
CHAKOTAY: Can you eject the core?
TESSA: No. Emergency systems are offline.
LAFORGE (voiceover): La Forge to Delta Flyer. Our sensors are reading an overload in your warp matrix. Lower your shields. We'll beam you out of there.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate the offer, Captain, but the answer's no. I suggest you get to a safe distance.
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in forty five seconds.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, now would be a good time.

[2390 Delta Flyer - lab]
EMH: Mister Kim.
KIM: It's losing power.
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in thirty seconds.
KIM: Your emitter. It's got its own power source.
EMH: Will it be enough?
KIM: It's our only chance. Glad you could join us, Doc.
EMH: It's been a pleasure.
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in fifteen seconds.
KIM: Chakotay, I'm giving this one more try.
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two.
KIM: Yes!

[Bridge]
SEVEN: Captain, I am receiving a transmission.
JANEWAY: I thought you said the comm. link was down.
TUVOK: It is.
SEVEN: The signal is being routed through one of my cranial implants. It contains a new set of phase corrections.
JANEWAY: Does Harry know how to access your Borg systems?
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: He must have figured out a way. Enter the corrections.
PARIS: Captain, the Quantum drive just went offline! We're dropping to impulse.
TUVOK: Captain, we've lost the Slipstream.

[Delta Flyer]
CHAKOTAY: The Slipstream collapsed. We were thrown out right along with Voyager.
KIM: Our comm. system's back up.

[Bridge]
KIM (voiceover): Delta Flyer to Voyager. What happened?
JANEWAY: You miscalculated, Harry. We entered the exact phase corrections you sent to Seven of Nine. They shut down the Quantum drive.

[Delta Flyer]
KIM: Captain, I didn't send any corrections to Seven of Nine.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: She received a message through one of her cranial implants. It wasn't you?

[Delta Flyer]
KIM: No, ma'am.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Our Slipstream flight may have been brief, but it took nearly ten years off our journey. I've given the order to dismantle the Quantum Drive until the technology can be perfected. Despite the setback, we have a renewed sense of momentum. It no longer seems a question of if we get home, but when.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: At ease. Am I interrupting?
KIM: No. I just came here to try to figure things out.
JANEWAY: Phase corrections.
KIM: The corrections I sent you were wrong. If you had used them, Voyager would have been heavily damaged, maybe even destroyed. What I can't figure out is who sent the other phase corrections to Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: Looks like we've got a guardian angel.
KIM: Oh, I wish I could believe that.
JANEWAY: Believe it. His name is Harry Kim.
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY: Seven found a Starfleet security code embedded in the transmission. Yours.
KIM: I'm telling you, I didn't send it.
JANEWAY: Not yet. The transmission had a temporal displacement. We believe it originated from the future. Ten, twenty years from now. We can't be sure.
KIM: Wait a second. If I sent a message from the future and changed the past, then that future would no longer exist, right? So, how could I have sent the message in the first place? Am I making any sense?
JANEWAY: My advice in making sense of temporal paradoxes is simple. Don't even try. To me, all that matters is that somewhere, somehow, sometime, you come through for us. And if you won't take it from me, take it from you. Seven found a log entry encoded in the telemetry. From Harry Kim, to Harry Kim.
KIM (screen): Hello, Harry. I don't have much time, so listen to me. Fifteen years ago, I made a mistake and one hundred and fifty people died. I've spent every day since then regretting that mistake, but if you're watching this right now, that means all of that has changed. You owe me one.
EMH (voiceover): Mister Kim, your assistance please.
KIM (screen): Got to go.

[Cargo Bay two]
COMPUTER: Regeneration cycle incomplete.

[Briefing room]
KIM: When I checked the overnight sensor logs this little surprise was waiting for me.
JANEWAY: Maybe I'm not quite awake, but it looks like it's over one hundred kilometers wide.
KIM: One hundred twenty. At first I thought it was an asteroid cluster, until I picked up a residual warp signature.
SEVEN: It was a Borg vessel. There are tetryon particles in the debris consistent with the atmosphere inside a Cube.
CHAKOTAY: Any idea what destroyed it?
SEVEN: We would need to run close range scans of the hull fragments.
KIM: Unless we alter course, we'll get our chance. The debris field's directly ahead.
JANEWAY: Then I suggest we cut a wide berth. Chances are the Borg will send more vessels to investigate. Alter course to avoid the debris. If that's all.
NEELIX: Ah, one other piece of business, Captain. It seems we had another incident in the Mess hall last night.
TORRES: Return of the Midnight Snacker?
NEELIX: I'm afraid so.
JANEWAY: Casualties?
NEELIX: A leg of Kelaran wildebeest I'd prepared for Ensign Ryson's birthday. Since Commander Tuvok has been unable to round up any suspects, I'd like to ask that stronger measures be taken.
TUVOK: Perhaps an armed security detail.
NEELIX: I'd like to ask permission to replicate some locking mechanisms for the cabinet doors.
JANEWAY: Granted. Dismissed.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman, subunit of Ensign Samantha Wildman. State your intentions.
NAOMI: I
SEVEN: Very well. You leave me no choice but to report your activities to the Captain.
NAOMI: Please don't. I was just observing you.
SEVEN: Explain.
NAOMI: Well, Neelix told me that the Borg do a lot of things they do because they're trying to be perfect. And even though you're not really a drone anymore, you still try to be perfect. Don't you?
SEVEN: Correct.
NAOMI: Well, if I can learn to be perfect, too, then Captain Janeway will have to make me her Bridge Assistant.
SEVEN: No such rank exists aboard this vessel.
NAOMI: Not yet.
SEVEN: And you hope to achieve this goal by emulating me?
NAOMI: Are you mad?
SEVEN: No. There are many on this crew that would benefit from your example.
NAOMI: So you'll teach me?
SEVEN: Your objective is admirable. However, your neocortical development is incomplete. You would require several months of accelerated growth in a Borg maturation chamber.
NAOMI: Oh, I don't think I like the sound of that.
SEVEN: Then I suggest that you
SEVEN: Hey.
NAOMI: Hi.
SEVEN: I'm bored. Let's do something fun.
NAOMI: Like what?
SEVEN: Swimming?
NAOMI: Oh, I'm not allowed to go swimming without my mom.
SEVEN: Do you like Kadis-kot?
NAOMI: Love it.
SEVEN: Come on!

[Wildman's quarters]
NAOMI: I'll be Bridge Assistant for a while, then I'll be promoted to Ensign. It'll be Lieutenant after that, and by the time we reach the Alpha Quadrant, Captain Wildman. Green, grid fourteen four.
SEVEN: Kadis-kot! I win.
NAOMI: You're really good at this game.
SEVEN: You want a rematch?
NAOMI: Sure.
SEVEN: Captains don't have much time to play, you know.
NAOMI: That's okay. I'll be pretty busy by then. Want to hear the rules of First Contact?
SEVEN: No.
NAOMI: How about the suborders of the Prime Directive? I know all forty seven of them.
SEVEN: You study too much, Naomi, just like my brother.
NAOMI: I didn't know you had a brother.
SEVEN: Twelve of them.
NAOMI: Twelve?
SEVEN: Nine older and three younger. We play Kadis-kot all the time.
NAOMI: I only have my mom and Neelix to play with, when they're not working.
SEVEN: You must get lonely.
NAOMI: A little. You get used to it. You adapt.
SEVEN: Adapt?
NAOMI: You know, like the Borg.
SEVEN: Borg. I hate Borgs.
NAOMI: You do?
SEVEN: Yeah, they're mean.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to Seven of Nine. Please report to Engineering.
SEVEN: It's your move.
TORRES (voiceover): Seven, respond.
SEVEN: I am on my way, Lieutenant. Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: Yes?
SEVEN: What am I doing here?
NAOMI: We're playing Kadis-kot. Seven?

[Engineering]
TORRES: Take a look at this, will you? I'm picking up an energy signal in the lower subspace bands, and if I'm not mistaken it's got a Borg modulation.
SEVEN: You are correct. It is Borg. I believe it's a neural interlink frequency.
TORRES: A what?
SEVEN: A frequency that integrates the minds of Borg drones.
TORRES: Can you pinpoint the origin?
SEVEN: I will try.
TORRES: No offense, Seven, but you look terrible.
SEVEN: I am not well. I experienced a brief lapse in memory and I am disoriented.
TORRES: Maybe you should get to Sickbay.
SEVEN: No. This interlink frequency could explain my
SEVEN: Do'Raq Merash.
TORRES: I beg your pardon?
SEVEN: I am the son of K'vok! And you, what House are you from?
TORRES: Is this some kind of a joke?
SEVEN: You wear the uniform of a Starfleet P'Cha! What kind of a warrior are you?
TORRES: Tom put you up to this, didn't he? Well, it didn't work.
SEVEN: Come, warrior, let me look at you.
TORRES: Enough, Seven.
SEVEN: Your blood is sweet!
TORRES: Torres to Security. Get somebody down here right now.
SEVEN: You are strong. You will make an excellent mate.
TORRES: Get the hell away from me!
SEVEN: You wish to prove yourself in battle.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: Seven of Nine attacked B'Elanna in Engineering. She's on deck nine, section twenty three.
JANEWAY: Forcefields. Don't tell me those two have actually come to blows.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Bridge to Tuvok. Seven's been contained. Deck ten, section thirty two.
TUVOK: Acknowledged. We're nearing her position.
TUVOK: Seven?
SEVEN: Somebody's hurt and he needs help. Did I do something bad?
TUVOK: Who are you?
SEVEN: My name's Maryl. Are you a Vulcan?
TUVOK: Computer, deactivate forcefield. Give me the phaser.
SEVEN: You are not a physician, Commander. The logical course of action would be to take him to the infirmary.
TUVOK: Maryl?
SEVEN: Subaltern Lorot, Vulcan High Command. May I be of assistance?
TUVOK: Yes. Please accompany me to Sickbay.
SEVEN: Certainly. Clearly he was attacked. I suggest we use caution. PetaQ! You will drown in your own blood.
TUVOK: Keep moving.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Seven.
SEVEN: Captain, why am I here?
JANEWAY: You've been unconscious for nearly two hours. We believe you're experiencing a neurological disorder.
SEVEN: Voices, I hear voices. They are agitated, chaotic. Too many voices.
SEVEN: Too many voices.
EMH: The cortical inhibitor is destabilizing. I'm increasing the neurotransmitter levels. It's working. Do you still hear the voices?
SEVEN: They are fading. They are gone.
JANEWAY: All right. Let's see what we can do to keep them from coming back. What's the last thing you remember?
SEVEN: I was in Engineering, assisting Lieutenant Torres.
TUVOK: You have no recollection of a confrontation with B'Elanna?
SEVEN: Confrontation?
EMH: I'm not sure why, but you seem to be manifesting personalities other than your own.
JANEWAY: Naomi Wildman claims the two of you played together for nearly an hour this afternoon.
TUVOK: You also attacked Lieutenant Torres. She told us you called yourself Son of K'vok and that you initiated a Klingon mating ritual.
SEVEN: I have no memory of those events.
EMH: Come look at this.
SEVEN: Doctor.
EMH: This is your neural pattern. The memory engrams and synaptic pathways that define you as an individual. Unfortunately, you're not alone. Thirteen new neural patterns have emerged in your cerebral cortex. Klingon, Vulcan, Terrelian, Human and several others I can't identify.
SEVEN: How?
EMH: They're coming from within you. During your time with the Borg, the Collective assimilated hundreds of different species. All of those neural patterns were integrated into the Hive Mind.
SEVEN: Of course.
EMH: That means they're in your mind too, stored within your cortical implants. Dormant until now.
JANEWAY: From what we can tell, the various neural patterns are surfacing randomly.
EMH: In essence, you've developed the Borg equivalent of Multiple Personality Disorder.
SEVEN: Can you correct the malfunction?
EMH: The cortical inhibitor is suppressing the effect, but it's only a temporary measure.
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres detected a Borg interlink frequency. It could be causing my cortical implants to malfunction.
TUVOK: The signal appears to be emanating from the Borg debris field we discovered this morning.
JANEWAY: Maybe we should jump to warp, try to get out of range.
SEVEN: The signal permeates subspace. We cannot avoid it.
EMH: Our only hope is to terminate the signal at its point of origin.
JANEWAY: Set a course for the debris field. When we arrive we may need your help. Feel up to it?
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Keep a close eye on her, Doctor, in case she has any more unexpected visitors.

[Corridor]
EMH: Has any drone ever experienced symptoms like these before?
SEVEN: The Collective does not tolerate imperfection. Any drone with a malfunction as serious as mine would be destroyed immediately.
EMH: Lucky for you, this crew is a little more tolerant.
NEELIX: Oh, there you are. Lieutenant Torres tells me you're under the weather.
SEVEN: Correct.
NEELIX: Well, is there anything your Morale officer can do to help? Assignments you need me to finish while you recuperate?
SEVEN: No.
NEELIX: I have some wonderful medicinal teas. Maybe I could prepare one for you?
EMH: Talaxian homeopathy. I don't think we're quite that desperate yet.
NEELIX: How about if I make one of your favorite nutritional supplements?
SEVEN: Your concern has been noted. The Doctor will inform you when I am functional again.
NEELIX: Right. Sorry. Oh! Ah, I almost forgot. It's from Naomi Wildman. It's a drawing of Voyager, or maybe it's an asteroid belt. I'm not sure. Naomi thought it might make you feel better.
SEVEN: Tell her thank you.

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: I suspected as much. There were several interruptions in your regeneration cycle. Eighteen minutes, five minutes, one hour.
SEVEN: I don't recall them.
EMH: Let's examine your neural function logs. Low serotonin levels during regeneration, that's normal. But look at these spikes in the pre-frontal synapses. They appear only seconds before you left the alcove. You were sleepwalking.
SEVEN: I don't remember entering this data file.
EMH: Looks like we found the identity of the Midnight Snacker. I'm sure Mister Neelix will be relieved.
SEVEN (voiceover): Personal log, Ensign Stone, Stardate 52188.7. I just completed my first week of active duty. It was a nightmare. After four years at the Academy I thought I was ready for anything, but Captain Blackwood runs a tight ship, and he seems to take special pleasure in tormenting new recruits. The First Officer tells me not to take it personally, but it's hard to be objective when
SEVEN: Blackwood. Captain of the Federation Starship Tombaugh. The Borg assimilated that vessel thirteen years ago.
EMH: The individual who made this recording must have been a member of the crew.
SEVEN: One of my victims.
EMH: Here's another log entry. This one encoded for transmission.
SEVEN (voiceover): Hi. Guess who? I know I promised to write you every day but that's simply not enough. How about once in the morning when I resuscitate and once at night before I go into torpor, and I'll think about you non-stop in between. Wait, I've got a better idea. Why don't you leave your circle and visit the colony? You'd love it here, so
EMH: Anything familiar?
SEVEN: I helped to assimilate thousands of individuals. I do not remember each of their names.
EMH: Seven, you were a Borg drone who's now becoming an individual. That's practically unheard of. There's bound to be rough spots along the way. We just have to get past them.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Bridge to Seven of Nine. We're approaching the debris field.
SEVEN: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Survivors?
TUVOK: None.
CHAKOTAY: Any sign of Borg vessels?
PARIS: No, sir. We're the first ones here.
KIM: I'm picking up the source of the interlink frequency. Bearing oh two seven mark three.
JANEWAY: On screen. Magnify.
SEVEN: It's a Borg vinculum.
CHAKOTAY: Vinculum?
SEVEN: The processing device at the core of every Borg vessel. It interconnects the minds of all the drones. It purges individual thoughts and disseminates information relevant to the Collective.
JANEWAY: It brings order to chaos.
SEVEN: Precisely.
JANEWAY: Looks like this one has established a link to your cortical implant.
SEVEN: I believe it has identified me as an errant drone. It is attempting to reintegrate me into the Collective. The Vinculum is malfunctioning. It is sending me erratic commands.
TUVOK: Bringing chaos to order.
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: Can you sever the link?
SEVEN: Not without risking permanent damage to my own systems. The Vinculum must be taken offline. Permission to beam it aboard for analysis. I have worked with this technology before. I may be able to disable it.
JANEWAY: We're talking about the heart of a Borg cube. I'd rather not take it inside my ship. Can you disable it remotely?
SEVEN: Yes, but I would need several days. The Borg may return by then. I recommend we take the Vinculum and leave this region immediately.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, prepare to beam it to Engineering. Erect a level ten forcefield and maintain constant surveillance. The moment it poses a threat, send it back into space. Tom, as soon as it's aboard, get us out of here. Warp nine.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: I understand what you're going through, and I want to help you in every way I can, but the safety of this crew is my first responsibility. We haven't had the best of luck with the Borg.
SEVEN: Nor have I.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Let's keep an eye on those antigrav struts. Boylen, lock out all primary command consoles and reroute transporter controls to main Engineering.
BOYLEN: Yes, Lieutenant.
EMH: Seven?
SEVEN: The voices. I hear them.
EMH: It's your proximity to the Vinculum. The link is stronger here. I'm adjusting your neurotransmitter levels. You'd better get started.
SEVEN: Don't worry, Lieutenant. The Son of K'vok will not be joining us.
TORRES: Glad to hear it. Does this qualify as our second date?
EMH: Just think of me as your chaperone.
TORRES: So, where's the off switch?
SEVEN: The Vinculum is equipped with many safeguards. I will need to access its transneural matrix and disable it directly.
TORRES: I'm reading a power surge.
SEVEN: It's a normal response to my intrusion. Don't be alarmed. Curious. I'm detecting an organism within the Vinculum. It appears to be a viral agent.
EMH: Let's see it. It's a synthetic pathogen. The virus was originally a biological agent but it's mutated. It's attacking the Vinculum's programs as it would living cells.
TORRES: An organism that attacks technology?
SEVEN: The Cube was infected three days ago, shortly after assimilating an alien shuttlecraft. Species 6339. They were the last ones to come in contact with the cube.
EMH: Looks like we found our Typhoid Mary.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Species 6339, Humanoid. Warp-capable. Origin, grid one two four, octant twenty two theta. They first encountered the Borg approximately four years ago. Since that time, eleven billion individuals have been assimilated. Three days ago, the Collective detected one of their last surviving shuttlecraft. A Cube was sent to intercept it.
EMH: We believe the virus was carried within their bodies. Once they were assimilated, it spread to the Vinculum.
SEVEN: The drones aboard no doubt experienced symptoms similar to my own. It is no surprise they destroyed themselves.
JANEWAY: I'd like to find species 6339. They may be able to help us treat you. Begin long range Astrometric scans. See if they have any more vessels in this region.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain. I've already begun a spatial diagn. My, my, my, look at the size of that thing. This viewscreen. It's got to be one of the biggest I've ever seen. I'll give you twenty bars of latinum for it.
EMH: I think the inhibitor's gone offline. Would you come here, please?
SEVEN: Be quiet. Can't you see I'm in the middle of a deal? Name your price, Captain?
JANEWAY: Janeway. And you are?
SEVEN: Daimon Torrot.
JANEWAY: You're Ferengi.
SEVEN: Of course I'm Ferengi. Is that some kind of insult about the size of my ears?
JANEWAY: No, not at all. I'd be happy to negotiate with you, but first we have to get you to Sickbay.
SEVEN: Sickbay? What for?
JANEWAY: Because you're ill.
SEVEN: I've never felt better.
JANEWAY: Doctor.
EMH: I'm afraid you've contracted a nasty strain of the Ankaran flu. We've been treating you several days. Remember?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: Short term memory loss. It's one of the symptoms. Don't worry, it isn't life threatening, but we'll need to treat you. In Sickbay.
SEVEN: What is this treatment going to cost me?
EMH: It's free of charge.
SEVEN: Free?
JANEWAY: Yes.
SEVEN: You know, I have been having a nagging pain in my lower left lobe, and while you're at it why don't you run a complete tricardial diagnostic. The Ferengi Health Commission's trying to revoke my trading license.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: Impressive vessel, Captain. Galaxy class?
JANEWAY: Intrepid.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: Ah. Ah, and here we are in the much talked-about Sickbay. Not exactly state of the medical art now, is it?
EMH: What do you mean?
SEVEN: You're low on biobeds, terrible lighting, obsolete instruments. Lucky for you, I know a medical supplier that can spruce this place up in a nanosecond, and I'll even drop my commission to a mere thirty percent?
EMH: How generous of you. Computer, activate forcefield.
SEVEN: Forcefield? You said I wasn't contagious.
EMH: It's for your own safety. I've set the cortical inhibitor to maximum but it is no longer suppressing the effects. These personalities are going to keep surfacing.
SEVEN: I've been kidnapped!
JANEWAY: Even more reason to shut down the Vinculum as soon as we can.
EMH: Even if we do break the link, it may be too late. Seven's own neural pattern is destabilizing. It could be lost.
SEVEN: Please help me. I'm looking for my son Gregory Bergan, Lieutenant Bergan. Have you seen him?
JANEWAY: No, I'm afraid not.
SEVEN: From the starship Melbourne.
JANEWAY: Melbourne?
SEVEN: I was supposed to meet him at Wolf 359, but Starfleet sent out a warning that the Borg were attacking that sector. It was too late for us to turn back. We were caught in a terrible battle. My ship was badly damaged. We had to leave on escape pods. I never found out what happened to Gregory. Please, I haven't heard from him in over three days. Could you check with Starfleet Headquarters?
JANEWAY: I'll see what I can do.
SEVEN: Thank you, Captain. If you do speak with him, could you tell him that his mother is all right and if he could pos... Captain.
JANEWAY: Seven?
SEVEN: Yes. The Vinculum?
JANEWAY: We're preparing to shut it down right away. I'll give the order as soon as Torres is ready.
SEVEN: How long was I absent?
JANEWAY: About twenty minutes.
SEVEN: How many?
JANEWAY: Two. One of whom wanted to acquire half the items on the ship. Daimon Torrot, I believe.
SEVEN: Species 180, Ferengi.
JANEWAY: Yes. The other was a woman whose son was lost in a Borg attack. You'll get through this, Seven.
SEVEN: I do not share your optimism.
SEVEN: When you took me from the Borg and began to turn me into an individual, I found the silence of my own mind difficult to bear. I missed the voices of the Collective. But now that I am an individual, those same voices frighten me. Captain, I don't know if I can tolerate this condition much longer. My courage is insufficient.
JANEWAY: Your job is to keep trying to hold on even when you think you can't. Leave the rest to me and the crew.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Meet anyone interesting?
JANEWAY: Just finished swapping jokes with a Bolian manicurist. Before that, I was debating the finer points of temporal physics with a Krenim scientist. Twelve new personalities have surfaced in the past hour alone. Seven's having a rough time of it. The Doctor had to sedate her.
CHAKOTAY: How's the Captain holding up?
JANEWAY: I've been better, Chakotay. In fact, I'm starting to wonder if my First Officer was right all along.
CHAKOTAY: About what?
JANEWAY: You always said that bringing Seven into the fold might be impossible.
CHAKOTAY: You can take the Borg out of the Collective, but. I don't believe that. Not anymore. I didn't think she'd last a day, much less a year. I'd say you've proven me wrong.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to Bridge. We're ready to begin disabling the Vinculum.
JANEWAY: Proceed.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Target the transneural matrix. Stand by to initiate the dampening field on my mark. Three, two, one, mark. Its power output is dropping.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Doctor to bridge. It seems to be working. Her neural pattern is stabilizing.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Power output is down to seventy seven percent. Seventy one percent. Wait a second. It's increasing.
TUVOK: I'm refocusing the dampening field.
TORRES: It's still increasing.
TUVOK: The Vinculum is rerouting its internal circuitry. It's adapting.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Engineering! Her synaptic pathways are destabilizing. Abort the procedure!
SEVEN: Help me!
EMH: Abort!

[Engineering]
TUVOK: Stand by, Doctor. Power output at ninety eight percent. The forcefield is collapsing.
TORRES: Transfer emergency power.
TUVOK: It won't work, Lieutenant. We must abort. Tuvok to bridge.

[Bridge]
TUVOK (voiceover): The procedure was unsuccessful. The Vinculum has returned to full power.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Doctor, report.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Seven's neural pattern has disappeared, Captain. It appears that the other patterns have taken over completely. We've lost her.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Long range sensors have detected a vessel belonging to species 6339. We've set a course to intercept them in the hopes they can help us restore Seven of Nine.

[Ready room]
EMH: I've managed to stabilize her primary cortical functions but the woman in Sickbay is not Seven of Nine. Not any more. New personalities are emerging every few seconds now. She can't finish a sentence before the next one rears its head. It's creating an incredible strain on her cerebral cortex. If we don't deactivate the Vinculum soon, we may never get her back.
JANEWAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: Lieutenant Torres is taking measures to prevent the Vinculum from adapting, but there's no guarantee she'll succeed.
EMH: Captain, I've exhausted every viable treatment in my database.
TUVOK: Then logic dictates we go beyond medical science. I will attempt to mind meld with Seven of Nine.
EMH: A mind meld? You consider that a viable treatment?
TUVOK: Seven's neural pattern, her sense of self, is immersed in chaos. I will attempt to isolate her true self and guide it to the surface.
JANEWAY: It's dangerous enough to meld with one person, let alone hundreds of different personalities.
EMH: It's too risky.
TUVOK: The risk is mine to take.
JANEWAY: I'm aware of that, but is this our only option?
TUVOK: I believe it is, Captain.
JANEWAY: How long would you need to prepare?
EMH: Captain, you can't actually be considering this Vulcan mumbo jumbo.
TUVOK: I will require two hours of meditation.
JANEWAY: Begin immediately. Report to Sickbay when you're ready.
JANEWAY: You said it yourself. We've exhausted every medical treatment.
EMH: I just hope I don't find myself with a second patient.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain to the bridge.
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: It's them. Species 6339.
KIM: Their vessel is well-armed, Captain. I'm picking up twenty two phaser cannons on the aft section alone.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
KIM: They're responding.
JANEWAY: On screen. I'm Captain Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. We recently found a piece of Borg technology. It's been infected with a viral agent we believe was transmitted by your
VEN (screen): The Vinculum, you have it?
JANEWAY: Yes.
VEN (screen): You've made a terrible mistake, Captain.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: A weapon?
VEN: Yes. Since the Borg decimated our world, we've been looking for ways to retaliate.
JANEWAY: So you created a virus to infect their technology.
VEN: Thirteen of my people were injected with the virus. They allowed themselves to be assimilated so that the virus would spread to this Vinculum. Once another Borg ship had retrieved it they would be infected as well. Then another Cube, and another. We had the opportunity to infect dozens, even hundreds of Borg vessels until you interfered. Why?
JANEWAY: Your virus has had one unexpected casualty. A member of my crew.
VEN: It wasn't designed to infect other species.
JANEWAY: She's Borg.
CHAKOTAY: We liberated her from the Collective over a year ago. She's an individual now.
JANEWAY: We were hoping you could help us treat her.
VEN: We designed that virus to destroy Borg, Captain. We never considered a treatment. I'm afraid your drone won't survive. But we must return the Vinculum to the debris field immediately. If the Borg arrive first, we'll have lost our chance, and those thirteen people will have died in vain.
JANEWAY: All right. We'll return it to you, but first we need to try to save our crew member. We think we have a way to counteract the Vinculum's effects. B'Elanna?
TORRES: I'm going to try to remodulate our dampening field to compensate
VEN: We don't have time for this. The Vinculum, Captain.
JANEWAY: I can't give it to you. Not yet.
VEN: You scanned our vessel, you're aware of our firepower.
JANEWAY: You could undoubtedly do significant damage to Voyager, and to the Vinculum. Is that what you want?
VEN: The Vinculum survived the destruction of one ship. What makes you so sure it won't survive another?

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: Doctor.
EMH: Seven. A necessary precaution. A few of your guests have been violent.
SEVEN: The Vinculum.
EMH: It keeps adapting. We haven't been able to shut it down. Your own neural pattern was nearly destroyed in the process. I wasn't sure I'd find you again.
SEVEN: I am damaged.
EMH: One of your personas didn't appreciate the restraints. She seemed intent on forcing her way to freedom.
SEVEN: I apologize.
EMH: It was hardly your fault. You're ill.
SEVEN: Irrelevant. I am Borg. I should be able to adapt.
EMH: Surprise. You aren't invincible. I suppose that's something we'll have to tackle in our next social lesson. Voices?
SEVEN: They're getting louder.
EMH: It won't be long before I lose you again. It's my duty as your physician to inform you of an alternative treatment.
SEVEN: What treatment?
EMH: Commander Tuvok has proposed a mind meld to help stabilize your neural pattern. I had a similar reaction. If you don't approve.
SEVEN: What is the probability of success?
EMH: I don't know. A mind meld is hardly a standard medical practice.
SEVEN: Are there any risks to Tuvok?
EMH: He could suffer brain damage, but he's confident he'll be able to break the meld before that happens.
SEVEN: Even if we do shut down the Vinculum, it may not be enough. If Tuvok can do anything to help me.
EMH: I understand.
SEVEN: Doctor, you have shown a great deal of patience.
EMH: Not at all.
SEVEN: Inform the crew that I am also grateful for their efforts.
EMH: You'll be able to tell them yourself, afterwards. Seven?
SEVEN: Voices!
EMH: Concentrate! Focus on the sound of my voice!
SEVEN: Get them out, please! I can't, I can't! No!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
PARIS: The alien vessel is coming about.
KIM: They're charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Shields.

[Sickbay]
EMH: As if the meld weren't dangerous enough, the aliens are trying to take the Vinculum by force. Commander Chakotay is at Tactical. The Captain wants you here with Seven. This will allow me to monitor your neural activity for the duration of the meld. At the first sign of trouble.
TUVOK: You will do nothing.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
TUVOK: There will undoubtedly be many signs of trouble. You must have faith in my ability to endure them.
EMH: I'll try. I just hope my faith doesn't leave the two of you brain damaged.
TUVOK: Your concerns have been noted, Doctor.
EMH: With all of these new personalities floating around, it's a shame we can't find one for you.
TUVOK: Computer, deactivate forcefield.
SEVEN: Why am I tied to this bed? Please let me go. PetaQ! I'll rip out your throat, coward! Name your price. Ten bars of latinum? Twenty? This isn't medicine, it's torture! I'll sue for malpractice. I fail to see the logic in this meld, Commander.
TUVOK: My mind to your mind.
SEVEN: You are but one mind, confronting thousands.
TUVOK: My thoughts to your thoughts.
SEVEN: You will not succeed.
TUVOK: Your mind to my mind.
SEVEN: Let me go. The Borg are assimilating the ship! We've got to evacuate.
TUVOK: My thoughts to your thoughts.
SEVEN: Listen to me! They're trying to assimilate the ship.
TUVOK: My mind to your mind.
SEVEN: Let me go!
TUVOK: My thoughts to your thoughts.
SEVEN: Mommy. Mommy.
TUVOK: My mind to your mind.
SEVEN: Mommy.
TUVOK: My thoughts to your thoughts.

[Meld]
TUVOK: Seven? Seven! Seven.
TUVOK: Seven. Seven? Seven? Seven?

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: I'm lost. Somebody help me. Please, I don't like it here. I want to go home. I can't find my

[Meld]
GIRL: Mommy. Please, help me. Please, I don't want to stay here, I want to go home. I don't like it here. Please, help me. I want to go home. These people are scary. Please don't go. Please, why are you leaving me here? Please! I don't like it here!

[Sickbay]
EMH: Sickbay to Engineering.

[Engineering]
EMH (voiceover): How long until the Vinculum's offline?
TORRES: Two, maybe three minutes. Provided Voyager can stay in one piece for that long.

[Bridge]
KIM: Shields down to sixty percent.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers. Target their weapons array.
CHAKOTAY: Targeting systems are malfunctioning.
PARIS: We're losing power to main thrusters.
KIM: Shields to thirty five percent.
JANEWAY: Reroute all available power to shields. Chakotay, initiate manual targeting.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to bridge.

[Engineering]
TORRES: The Vinculum's stopped adapting. I think the new dampening field is working. We should have it disabled in the next sixty seconds.

[Sickbay]
COMPUTER: Warning. Neurochemical synapses are destabilizing.
EMH: Computer, increase power to the cortical inhibitors.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Power transport systems are offline.
EMH: Tuvok, if you can hear me, we have to terminate the meld. Tuvok. Tuvok!

[Meld]
SEVEN: Commander. Commander!
TUVOK: Seven?
SEVEN: Commander.
TUVOK: Seven!

[Engineering]
TORRES: Power output's down to twenty nine percent. Twenty two. Seventeen. Bridge, we just lost the field emitters.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We took a direct hit to the power grid. Stand by. We're switching to emergency backup.

[Meld]
TUVOK: Seven.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Bridge, the Vinculum's powering up again.
JANEWAY (voiceover): The field emitters are back online. Pull the plug.
TORRES: It's working. Power output down to nineteen percent. Thirteen percent.

[Meld]
TUVOK: Seven. Seven.
SEVEN: Tuvok.
TUVOK: Seven.

[Engineering]
TORRES: It's done, Captain. The Vinculum's offline.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Seven?
SEVEN: Yes.

[Bridge]
EMH (voiceover): We have her back, Captain.
JANEWAY: Hail the lead vessel. Tell them we're surrendering the Vinculum.
KIM: No response.
JANEWAY: Lock onto the damn thing. Beam it into space.
CHAKOTAY: Transport complete. They're withdrawing.
JANEWAY: Take us out of here, Tom. Warp nine.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 52356.2. After nearly a week of regeneration Seven of Nine has finally recovered from her ordeal.

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: Neuroprocessor, cortical receptors, all stable. She's fit to return to duty.
JANEWAY: What about her other personalities? Any sign of them?.
EMH: Those neural patterns have returned to their dormant state.
SEVEN: The voices will not return?
EMH: I suppose that depends on your perspective. You may not hear them, but I suspect they'll always be with you.
SEVEN: The members of this crew put themselves at risk to help me. I am unsure how to reciprocate.
JANEWAY: Let's start with something small, like a recalibration of the EPS manifolds. B'Elanna's expecting you in Engineering.
SEVEN: I will join her shortly. There is a crew member I must see first.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: These are star charts for the next three systems Voyager will pass through. Familiarize yourself with them.
NAOMI: Understood.
SEVEN: Sociological data regarding one hundred and seventy three Delta quadrant species. Study it.
NAOMI: I will.
SEVEN: As Bridge Assistant, you will find this information relevant.
NAOMI: Consider it assimilated.
SEVEN: There is one more assignment. I require your assistance.
NAOMI: Me?
SEVEN: I wish to participate in recreational activities.
NAOMI: Great.

[Turbolift]
SEVEN: Kadis-kot. Instruct me how to play.
NAOMI: I will comply.

[Holodeck]
EMH: And, since I was the only crewmember who could survive the corrosive atmosphere, it was up to me to retrieve the data module and save the day. Ah, here I am, mission accomplished. Then of course there was the perilous mission to Lav'oti V. You remember that one, don't you Mister Paris?
PARIS: How could I forget.
EMH: Here you are after your unfortunate slip into the fetid mud pits of Palomar.
PARIS: Hey, I was pushed.
EMH: Of course you were.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Doctor. We've all enjoyed your holo-images enormously.
EMH: Oh, but I haven't finished yet.
TORRES: There's more?
EMH: The best is yet to come, Lieutenant. I've created a fascinating twelve part holographic essay which I call 'Under the Skin'. Humanoid anatomy as art. Let's begin with this stunning magnification of the Vulcan reproductive gland. Note the composition, the subtle variations in color.

[Bridge]
KIM: Twenty one hundred hours, Commander. All systems reporting normal.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
KIM: Like I said, it's twenty one hundred hours.
CHAKOTAY: I heard you the first time, Harry.
KIM: They've been in there over an hour.
CHAKOTAY: I'm aware of that.
KIM: Didn't the Captain ask you to rescue them after thirty minutes?
CHAKOTAY: Harry, you and I were lucky enough to enjoy the Doctor's scintillating exhibition for two full hours. Would it really be fair of us to deny our friends the same unforgettable experience?
KIM: Of course not, sir.

[Holodeck]
EMH: Thank you. thank you for coming. We'll do it again soon. We've still got thousands of light years to while away. This could be a weekly event.

[Corridor]
TORRES: What happened to going to yellow alert after half an hour?
TUVOK: Commander Chakotay appears to have disobeyed a direct order.
JANEWAY: Definitely grounds for court martial.

[Mess hall]
TORRES: Hey, Neelix.
NEELIX: Coffee?
PARIS: Oh, I could use a whole pot.
NEELIX: Let me guess. The Doctor's photographic essay?
PARIS: Ha! One mind-numbing image after the next.
TORRES: Oh, I don't know. I thought some of those pictures were pretty funny.
NEELIX: You mean like the one where Tom slipped into a mud pit?
TORRES: You're famous.
NEELIX: Then, of course, there's the one depicting a certain Chief Engineer with her foot stuck in a plasma injector.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: Really? I seem to have missed that one.
NEELIX: The Doctor must have taken it out of the exhibition.
PARIS: Oh, I can't wait to get my hands on it. Maybe I can distribute it to everyone's personal database.
TORRES: Try it, and I'll kill you. Right after I finish deleting the Doctor's program.
PARIS: What'd you put in this coffee, Neelix?

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm reading a massive energy wave nine hundred thousand kilometers off the starboard bow, heading right for us.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
TUVOK: Unknown.
JANEWAY: Shields up. Evasive maneuvers.
KIM: The wave just changed course. It seems to be tracking us!
JANEWAY: Go to warp eight!
CHAKOTAY: Too late! Engines are down.
JANEWAY: Everybody hang on!
JANEWAY: All stop.
TUVOK: Shields are holding. Minor damage to the hull plating on deck fifteen.
CHAKOTAY: No injuries.
JANEWAY: Stand down red alert.
KIM: Captain, when the wave hit our communications array received a download.
CHAKOTAY: What sort of download?
KIM: I'm not sure. Lots of information. I can't decipher it, but there's an audio component.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, try all the standard decryption algorithms.
JANEWAY: It's strange. The wave followed us but it didn't cause any damage. Instead, we get a download to our database. I'd say it's a pretty good bet somebody's trying to tell us something.
PARIS: The wave left a residual ion trail. We might be able to locate its point of origin.
JANEWAY: Set a course.
JANEWAY: Looks like it's taken quite a beating.
CHAKOTAY: Lifesigns?
KIM: One. Non-humanoid. It's very faint. Probably injured.
JANEWAY: Beam it to Sickbay.
TUVOK: Are you sure that's wise, Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm betting that message we received was some sort of distress call. And if we're going to help, I'd rather do it on Voyager.

[Sickbay]
EMH: The physiology is so unusual the tricorder can't make heads or tails of it. The creature's obviously injured, but I haven't a clue how to treat it or even diagnose it.
TORRES: My scans came up with something interesting, Captain. The interfaces on the alien's vessel can only be activated chemically. I'm guessing that this lifeform somehow interfaces directly with the ship's systems using biochemical secretions to give commands.
JANEWAY: That would explain how it can fly a ship.
TORRES: I'm hoping this can also help us figure out
EMH: No! You'll hurt B'Elanna!
TORRES: Get it off of me!
JANEWAY: Janeway to Kim. Beam the alien lifeform

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Back to it's vessel. Now!
KIM: I'm having trouble getting a lock.

[Sickbay]
EMH: It's piercing her neck!
EMH: Her heart and lungs are seriously compromised, and her kidneys are failing. The creature's also secreting some kind of paralyzing agent into her bloodstream.
PARIS: How do we get it off her?
EMH: I can't remove it surgically, not without doing irreparable harm to B'Elanna's organs.
JANEWAY: Can we get a lock on the creature, transport it off?
EMH: Not unless we want to beam B'Elanna's cardiopulmonary system along with it.
PARIS: We have to do something.
EMH: No one is disputing that, Mister Paris. The question is what? If I'm to have any hope of devising a treatment I'll need to brush up on my exobiology.
PARIS: What do you mean, brush up? Don't you have all this information in your database?

[Doctor's office]
EMH: I may be a walking medical encyclopedia, but even I don't know everything. My matrix simply isn't large enough.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can do better than giving you a crash course in exobiology. Maybe we can provide you with a consultant.
EMH: I'd be delighted, but how?
JANEWAY: By isolating the computer's exobiology data files and merging them into a an interactive matrix.
PARIS: A hologram.
JANEWAY: Exactly.
EMH: That may not be as simple as it sounds. It would need to be nearly as sophisticated as I am. Tactile interfaces, personality subroutines.
PARIS: Harry could do it.
JANEWAY: Search the database for the leading exobiologist. If you want to add a personality, it may as well be based on a real person. I'll have Harry meet you in holodeck two.
EMH: Stay with her and monitor her vital signs. Call me if there's any change.

[Corridor]
KIM: I still have my doubts about this, Doc. It's one thing to create a simple hologram, but you're trying to merge an extensive database with an interactive matrix.
EMH: Don't be a pessimist, Mister Kim. Together we'll create a masterpiece of holographic art.
KIM: A subject for your next slide show?
EMH: Perhaps.
KIM: Can't wait.

[Holodeck]
KIM: What's the name of that exobiologist you chose?
EMH: Crell Moset.
KIM: Here's the file.
EMH: Let's start with the parameters for physical appearance.
KIM: Computer, display a holographic simulation of Crell Moset.
KIM: Have you mentioned to anyone else that this guy's a Cardassian?
EMH: What difference does it make?
KIM: Maybe you haven't heard. They're not the friendliest folks in the galaxy.
EMH: I don't care if he's the nastiest man who ever lived, as long as he can help us save B'Elanna.
KIM: Good point. Computer, transfer all reference medical files to the simulation.
COMPUTER: Transfer complete.
KIM: Now install personality subroutines and voice approximation.
COMPUTER: Installation complete.
EMH: Doctor Moset, I'd like to consult with you about an alien lifeform.
MOSET: I am Crell Moset, Chief Exobiology specialist Cardassia Prime certified to perform all surgical procedures.
EMH: This is going well. What's wrong?
KIM: Some sort of overload in the interactive matrix.
EMH: Can you clear it up?
KIM: I'm trying. Computer, install a recursive algorithm.
COMPUTER: Algorithm installed.
KIM: Try it again.
EMH: Doctor Moset?
MOSET: My friends call me Crell.
EMH: It's a pleasure to meet you, Crell.
MOSET: And you, good man. What's your name?
EMH: Actually, I'm in-between names at the moment. I'm an Emergency Medical Hologram.
MOSET: Interesting.
KIM: But his friends call him Doc.
MOSET: Ah-ha. May I presume?
EMH: Certainly.
MOSET: So, Doc, how can an old surgeon like me help a technological marvel such as yourself?
EMH: Oh, well, I've got a patient with a rather unusual problem. She's become fused with a non-humanoid lifeform I know nothing about.
MOSET: Non-humanoid exobiology happens to be one of my specialties.
EMH: That's exactly why we've created your program.
MOSET: Program?
EMH: You're a hologram as well.
MOSET: Interesting. I'd like to see the patient right away.
EMH: Mister Kim, would you do the honors please.
KIM: No problem. Listen, if he destabilizes again, take him offline and call me.
EMH: Understood.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Lieutenant. may I present Crell Moset?
MOSET: It's a pleasure.
PARIS: She's been drifting in and out of consciousness.
EMH: Don't be rude, Lieutenant.
PARIS: To him? No offense, Doc, but he's just a
EMH: A brilliant scientist who's here to help us. This way, Crell.
MOSET: Hmm. I can see why you're having difficulty.
EMH: It's physiology doesn't match any of the standard templates in our database.
MOSET: My guess would be a cytoplasmic lifeform.
EMH: I agree. And from what I can tell it has co-opted her vital systems.
MOSET: She's Klingon. No, the cranial ridges are less pronounced. Klingon-human hybrid.
EMH: Exactly. Let's hope your instincts about the creature are equally insightful.
MOSET: I'm afraid this one is going to require more than a visual assessment. You have an isomolecular scanner?
EMH: No, just a standard issue Starfleet tricorder.
MOSET: No wonder you're having problems making an accurate diagnosis.

[Doctor's office]
MOSET: I suggested an upgrade to the Starfleet people at a joint medical conference, but they assumed I was just an arrogant Cardassian trying to prove his superiority. Or maybe they thought I was a spy.
EMH: I hope you weren't too offended.

[Sickbay]
MOSET: It's an unfortunate reality. Sometimes even enlightened races can't find common ground. I may be able to recalibrate this thing. There, that should help.
EMH: Amazing.
MOSET: Well, someone from Starfleet appreciates me.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: I've instructed the computer to assign symbols to all the tones received in the transmission.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like there were over ten thousand separate sounds used in this section of the message.
JANEWAY: It's going to be a tough code to crack.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we can get a little help from the alien vessel's databanks.
JANEWAY: Good idea. Janeway to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN (voiceover): Yes.
JANEWAY: Any chance of downloading the alien's databanks?

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): We're looking for anything that might help us understand their language. We don't know how much time B'Elanna has left.
SEVEN: We must move quickly. The vessel is on the verge of a complete systems failure.
SEVEN: Prepare to download the data.
TABOR: I heard the Captain.
SEVEN: Is there a problem?
TABOR: No. No problem.
SEVEN: You seem uncomfortable taking orders from me.
TABOR: It's just that I'm used to taking orders from B'Elanna, that's all. And to tell you the truth, she doesn't
SEVEN: Doesn't like me. Yes, I am aware of that. However, the Captain left me in charge during Lieutenant Torres' absence. Her feelings about me are irrelevant. Activate the interface transceiver. Begin the download.
TABOR: I'm picking up a fluctuation in the alien ship's power source.
SEVEN: It's disrupting the interface transceiver. Re-initialize.
TABOR: I'm working on it. It's systems are overloading.
SEVEN: Red alert.

[Bridge]
SEVEN (voiceover): Engineering to bridge. The alien vessel is destabilizing. It's destruction is imminent.
JANEWAY: Can you download the information first?

[Engineering]
SEVEN: We're trying.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, it's going to explode.
JANEWAY: Ensign, back us off.

[Sickbay]
MOSET: What do we know so far?
EMH: The lifeform has taken control of her body at the autonomic level, drawing proteins from her tissues, white blood cells from her arteries.
MOSET: Which can be interpreted in several ways.
EMH: A form of attack?
MOSET: I find it odd that a species would evolve an attack mechanism that would leave it so vulnerable. Why not do it's damage and retreat?
EMH: A parasite, perhaps?
MOSET: Yes, I think so, but not any ordinary variety. It's unlikely it could sustain itself like this over the long term.
EMH: Its own systems are damaged. It's doing this as a stopgap measure, to keep itself alive.
MOSET: So the patient's heart, lungs, kidneys, they're all augmenting the alien's damaged system.
EMH: It's using B'Elanna as a life preserver.
MOSET: But if it needs her to survive, it's not about to let go without a fight.
EMH: I'd like to think that's a fight you and I can win.
MOSET: We do work well together. I just wish we had access to my laboratory. It has all the instrumentation we would need. Well, we'll just have to improvise.
EMH: Not necessarily. We may be able to create a reasonable facsimile of your laboratory in our holodeck.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Providing of course, you can give an accurate description.
MOSET: Oh, down to the smallest detail. It's more of a home to me than my home.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: Tom.
PARIS: Hey, there.
TORRES: I can't move.
PARIS: I know, but don't worry. We'll get this thing off you. Just think, I could force you to listen to rock and roll all day and you wouldn't be able to do a thing about it.
TORRES: Who's that?
PARIS: Relax. He's just a hologram. A specialist in exobiology. The Doc thinks he might be able to help you.
TORRES: Can't he find somebody else?
PARIS: Apparently, this guy's the best. Besides, he's just a walking database.
TORRES: Hologram or not, he's Cardassian. As far as I'm concerned, they're all cold-blooded killers.
PARIS: I understand how you feel. Unfortunately, that cold-blooded killer may be the only one who can save your life.

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]
EMH: Impressive. Is this where you did your work on the Fostossa virus?
MOSET: No. Actually, I was on Bajor at the time, during the Occupation. A sad chapter in Cardassian history. We had no business being there, but try telling that to the politicians. When I think of the resources that were squandered, the lives that were lost.
EMH: But from what I understand, you saved thousands of lives.
MOSET: In retrospect, I don't know how. The military had everything they needed but the civilian hospitals? No staff, the crudest equipment.
EMH: Don't tell me. You were forced to improvise.
MOSET: Yes!
EMH: I know what that's like.
MOSET: I didn't have the resources to try traditional methods, so I experimented with procedures that, that never would have occurred to me under ordinary circumstances. The discovery of the cure was almost accidental, really.
EMH: You're being modest, Crell.
MOSET: No.
EMH: You made medical history. You won the Legate's Crest of Valor.
MOSET: Awards aren't important, Doc. It's the work that matters.
EMH: Of course. Still, the recognition of your peers, your government. It must be very satisfying.
MOSET: I'm sure you've made your share of breakthroughs.
EMH: Naturally. Unfortunately, no one from Starfleet ever hears about them. I toil in obscurity.
MOSET: Why don't you show me your patient records? At least I'll know about your accomplishments.
EMH: All right.
MOSET: Everything seems to be in order. Shall we get to work?
EMH: Computer, create a holographic re-creation of the alien in Sickbay.
MOSET: Hand me that cortical stimulator, will you? Yes, thank you.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. While the Doctor seems to be making progress, Commander Chakotay and I have hit a wall in our attempt to decipher the alien message.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: It was a distress call, right? So maybe if we retransmitted that message others of the species would realize we need their help.
CHAKOTAY: We don't know where they are.
JANEWAY: We'll send it on all subspace bands. If they're out there, they'll hear it.
CHAKOTAY: They might turn out to be unfriendly.
JANEWAY: The Doctor's pretty sure the alien is simply trying to survive. I agree. It'll be a difficult first contact, but we might find a way to communicate.
CHAKOTAY: It's worth a shot.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Tuvok, reroute auxiliary power to the deflector dish. Retransmit the alien's message on all subspace bands.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. Deflector at full capacity.
JANEWAY: Chakotay.

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]
MOSET: I'm sorry. My wife tells me I'm tone deaf.
EMH: Not at all. You were right on key. If you enjoy music we can run some opera programs after we're finished.
MOSET: I'd like that. I think we're ready for a look inside. Scalpel?
EMH: Forgive me for saying so, but this appears to be a rather crude instrument, especially when we have such advanced equipment at our disposal.
MOSET: I often find the simplest tool is the most effective. All of our elaborate scanners and laser scalpels, they remove us from our subjects. Actually feeling the anatomy, the consistency of the internal organs. It can be very instructive. Why don't you do the honors? Make a vertical incision, say twelve centimeters, starting here.
EMH: We're hurting it.
MOSET: Doctor, it's a hologram.
EMH: Of course. I guess as a hologram myself, I have a certain empathy.
MOSET: Keep going.
MOSET: Extraordinary. Look at that series of nodes.
EMH: They appear to be clustered along the primary nerve.
MOSET: Multiple neocortices, I'd say.
EMH: Suggesting a highly intelligent species.
MOSET: Yes, but also presenting us with a point of attack.
EMH: Attack?
MOSET: If we induce a neurostatic shock in one of these nodes, I believe it will travel to the others. The creature will lose motor function and we'll be able to remove it.
EMH: The procedure will probably kill the creature.
MOSET: Probably.
EMH: I'd like to find a way to save them both.
MOSET: So would I, in an ideal situation. But we have to set priorities which, in this case, is your crew mate.
EMH: This is a sentient lifeform. For all we know it could be this species' Einstein, its Picasso.
MOSET: Or he could be a psychotic criminal. The point is, we don't know, and we have choices to make.
EMH: Your program's destabilizing.
MOSET: This is such poor timing.
EMH: I'll have to take you offline. But don't worry, we'll have you up and running again in no time. Computer, take Medical Consultant program offline. Doctor to Ensign Kim.

[Engineering]
KIM: Go ahead, Doc.
EMH: Our new program's destabilizing.
KIM: I'll meet you in Sickbay. We'll try to reinitialize him there. Tabor, I could use some help.
TABOR: Yes, sir.

[Sickbay]
KIM: Try again.
TABOR: No luck.
PARIS: Would it be easier if we reduced the hologram's memory load?
KIM: Maybe, but I don't want to do that unless we absolutely have to.
TORRES: What's going on?
EMH: My consultant's gone offline.
TORRES: The Cardassian? You can leave him off.
EMH: I'm surprised by your attitude, Lieutenant. I never took you for someone who would make generalizations based on race.
TORRES: When it comes to Cardassians, I'm guilty as charged.
EMH: I understand your experience with them was unpleasant, but if you give Crell a chance, I think you'll find that he's a friendly, compassionate man. Not to mention a genius who's trying to save your life.
TORRES: I'll skip the introductions if it's all the same to you.
EMH: Suit yourself. But you should know I plan on asking the Captain to keep him on as a permanent consultant.
TORRES: I'm not the only one who's going to have a problem with that.
EMH: Well, you'll just have to get used to it. Who knows, you may even grow to like him.
TORRES: Don't hold your breath.
EMH: How's it coming?
KIM: We're close.
TABOR: Actually, I think that should do it.
KIM: Good. Computer, reactivate Medical Consultant program beta one.
MOSET: Hello again.
TABOR: My god.
PARIS: What's wrong?
TABOR: That's Crell Moset.
MOSET: Yes. Do I know you?
TABOR: He killed my brother, my grandfather, hundreds of people. He's a mass murderer!
EMH: You must be mistaken.
TABOR: It's no mistake. Moset performed experiments on living people. Thousands of Bajorans were killed in his so-called hospital.
EMH: Is this true?
MOSET: No. No, he's. There must be some misunderstanding.
TABOR: The liar!
PARIS: Whoa. Take it easy, Tabor. Whoa. He's just a hologram.
MOSET: I'm upsetting him. I should go.
EMH: I'm sorry about this. Computer, transfer Medical Consultant program to holodeck two.

[Chakotay's office]
TABOR: I can still remember the sounds his instruments made. The screams of his patients. The smell. Chemicals and dead flesh. He operated on my grandfather. Exposed his internal organs to nadion radiation. It took six days for him to die. I promised myself I would never forget.
EMH: You were very young. Is it possible your memory of these events is inaccurate?
TABOR: My memory's just fine. He blinded people so he could study how they adapted. Exposed them to polytrinic acid just to see how long it would take for their skin to heal.
EMH: Ensign, the man you're accusing cured the Fostossa virus. He stopped an epidemic that killed thousands of Bajorans.
TABOR: By infecting hundreds of people so that he could experiment with different treatments. Old, helpless people like my grandfather, because he considered their lives worthless.
EMH: How do you know this?
TABOR: Everybody knew.
CHAKOTAY: I remember some of the Maquis under my command talking about an infamous Cardassian doctor.
EMH: Could these simply have been rumors spread by Bajorans who hated the Cardassians?
TABOR: I was there.
EMH: I don't understand why this isn't in our database.
CHAKOTAY: The Cardassians didn't exactly publicize their wartime medical practices. I wouldn't be surprised if the real Moset went on to live a normal life.
EMH: He's the Chairman of Exobiology at the University of Culat.
TABOR: We may not be able to do anything about the real Moset, Commander, but the program should be destroyed. Every trace of that man's research should be deleted from the database.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: I had a bad feeling about that hologram the second I saw him.
PARIS: Looks like your instinct was right.
TORRES: I won't let him near me.
PARIS: You're kidding, right?
TORRES: No, I am dead serious.
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: If I let that pig operate on me, I'll be benefiting from other people's suffering.
PARIS: You're not being rational.
TORRES: I won't do it.
EMH: What's happening?
PARIS: Her cytotoxin levels are going through the roof. Pulse is rapid and irregular.
EMH: No doubt you've said something to upset her.
PARIS: What she's upset about, Doc, is your Cardassian buddy.
TORRES: Tell him.
EMH: Tell me what?
PARIS: She refuses to let him treat her.
EMH: B'Elanna, we're very close to a solution.
TORRES: Do it without him.
EMH: I don't know that I can.
TORRES: Find another way.
PARIS: She's going into cytotoxic shock.
EMH: Two milligrams of inaprovaline. Chief Medical Officer's Log, supplemental. I've managed to stabilize Lieutenant Torres for the time being, but the matter of how to proceed with her treatment remains unresolved.

[Engineering]
KIM: Isolate datablock oh four five nine.
EMH: Ensign? You wanted to see me?
KIM: We've been looking for evidence that might support Tabor's accusations.
EMH: Anything?
KIM: Actually, that's why we called you here. It's not looking good.
EMH: Show me.
SEVEN: We've been reviewing data on the Cardassian occupation of Bajor. The alleged site of Moset's crimes.
KIM: Strategic information, log entries kept in battle, sensor scans from Starfleet vessels. This, for example. Requisition records from one of Crell Moset's hospitals.
SEVEN: He was purchasing biochemical agents, including every known strain of the Fostossa virus.
EMH: Of course he needed samples of the virus. That's how vaccines are developed.
KIM: Take a look at the requisition orders.
EMH: Moset didn't ask for any of the enzymes normally required for synthesizing a vaccine.
KIM: It gets worse. Four days after he received the virus samples there was a minor outbreak of Fostossa in the vicinity of his hospital.
SEVEN: Prior to that date there had not been a single case in the entire province.
KIM: I have to report these findings to Commander Chakotay.
SEVEN: It is curious. The Borg are accused of assimilating information with no regard for life. This Cardassian did the same, and yet his behavior was tolerated.

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]
MOSET: Ah, there you are. I'm almost ready to perform the surgery.
EMH: Lieutenant Torres won't allow you to have anything to do with her treatment.
MOSET: Because of that Bajoran?
EMH: We've gathered some corroborating evidence. It appears that he's telling the truth. You committed a series of atrocities during the Cardassian war. Thousands of Bajorans died on your surgical tables.
MOSET: That's absurd. And even if it were true, I'm only a hologram, and I have no memory of those events. They're not part of my programming.
EMH: But you are the holographic representation of Crell Moset. Your program, despite all its brilliance, is based on his work. He infected patients, exposed them to polytrinic acid, mutilated their living bodies, And now we're reaping the benefits of those experiments. Medically, ethically, it's wrong.
MOSET: What do you suggest we do about it?
EMH: I'm not sure. We may have to delete your program.
MOSET: Delete me? What about our patient?
EMH: I suppose I'd have to try and treat her on my own.
MOSET: No offense but, you need me.
EMH: I realize that.
MOSET: You're a physician. You know there's always a price to pay for the advancement of medical science.
EMH: Sometimes that price is too high. Torture?
MOSET: Your word, not mine. I cured the Fostossa virus, didn't I? So these experiments you say I conducted obviously helped me devise a treatment. Imagine how many lives would have been lost if I hadn't eliminated this disease.
EMH: That doesn't justify using people in laboratory experiments.
MOSET: As I explained to you, during the Occupation I was forced to improvise. I used what resources I had.
EMH: And ethical considerations, they mean nothing to you?
MOSET: Ethics are arbitrary. How do you suppose your own database was developed? Hmm? My God, half the medical knowledge acquired on Earth came through experiments on lower animals.
EMH: But not people.
MOSET: It's convenient to draw a line between higher and lower species, isn't it?
EMH: This is the twenty fourth century, Crell. Your kind of barbarism ended a long time ago. Or at least, it should have.
MOSET: What difference does it make how long ago the research occurred? What matters is that we can use it to help patients today. Now, are you going to delete my program and all of the research it contains, or are we going to use it to save B'Elanna's life?

[Chakotay's office]
CHAKOTAY: Come in.
TABOR: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: This request of yours to be relieved of duty. I won't grant it.
TABOR: I have the right to resign my commission.
CHAKOTAY: For what reason?
TABOR: Moral objections to the ship's medical policy.
CHAKOTAY: I understand how difficult this is for you, but you've got to let go of the past. Focus on today and today, B'Elanna's life is in danger. Everything else should be put aside.
TABOR: You don't have the right to violate the memory of my family. As long as that Cardassian hologram is online that's exactly what you're doing.
CHAKOTAY: It's not that simple.
TABOR: It is to me. Crell Moset killed thousands of people in his hospitals. As long as we're willing to benefit from his research, we're no better than he is.

[Briefing room]
EMH: If I had weeks, or even days, maybe I could come up with an alternative. But time is of the essence, and Moset's idea will work.
PARIS: Then you've got to use it.
CHAKOTAY: Even if the Doctor could perform the surgery without Moset's help, he'd still be using the man's research. That would be going against B'Elanna's wishes.
PARIS: We're talking about a woman who has alien tendrils sapping the life out of her. She's obviously not thinking straight.
TUVOK: On the contrary. Her concerns are based in logic.
PARIS: Logic?
TUVOK: If the Doctor uses knowledge that Moset gained through his experiments, we would be validating his methods, inviting further unethical research.
CHAKOTAY: We'd be setting a terrible precedent.
PARIS: We're in the middle of the Delta Quadrant. Who would know?
TUVOK: We would know.
PARIS: Fine. Let's just deactivate the evil hologram and let B'Elanna die. At least we'd have our morals intact.
CHAKOTAY: Tom.
PARIS: And you, Chakotay. Since when do you care what Starfleet thinks?
CHAKOTAY: This isn't about rules and regulations. This is about doing what's right.
PARIS: Spoken like a true Maquis. Well, if you'd just set aside your hatred of the Cardassians for one second
CHAKOTAY: Enough, Lieutenant.
JANEWAY: All right, all right. The arguments have been made and we're running out of time. The fact is, you're both right, but when it comes down to it, the only issue I'm concerned about is the well-being of that crew member lying in Sickbay. We'll wrestle with the morality of this situation later, after B'Elanna is back on her feet. Doctor, you have my authorisation to proceed, with Moset's assistance.
EMH: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Any consequences of this decision will be my responsibility. Dismissed.
PARIS: Thanks.

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]
MOSET: Scalpel.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Ensign Kim, do you hear something?
KIM: Hear what?
TUVOK: A series of high frequencies. They are getting louder.
KIM: Must be those Vulcan ears of yours.
JANEWAY: I hear it too. Anything on sensors?
TUVOK: It appears to be an alien comm. signal. Triaxilating wavelengths.
CHAKOTAY: Origin.
TUVOK: Unknown.
KIM: Captain, a vessel just dropped out of warp. Approaching fast off the port bow.
JANEWAY: On screen.
CHAKOTAY: Can we dampen it a little?
TUVOK: Negative.
JANEWAY: Harry, tell me that was just their way of saying hello.
KIM: I wish I could. The universal translator doesn't have a clue.
TUVOK: Perhaps they are waiting for our response.
JANEWAY: Well, then, let's give them one. Open a channel, all subspace bands. This is Captain Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. We cannot interpret your message but please try to understand. We are on a peaceful mission and we intend you no harm. We have one of your kind on board our ship. It's injured, and we're attempting to provide treatment. If you can understand this

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]
MOSET: I'm ready to stimulate the primary neural pathways. Cortical probe. I'm applying it to the primary neocortex. Its motor control is weakening but not enough to release the patient. Our little friend needs a bigger jolt. I'm increasing the pulse frequency.
EMH: The synapses are degenerating. You're killing it.
MOSET: Don't lose your nerve, Doctor. Not when we're this close.
EMH: Lower the pulse frequency.
MOSET: If I do that the creature will regain control.
EMH: I don't care. Lower the pulse.
MOSET: Doctor.
EMH: Lower the pulse frequency or I'll take your program offline.
MOSET: You realize you're reducing our chances of saving her?
EMH: Not necessarily. Give me the probe. The probe, Doctor. If we apply the pulse to the secondary neocortex, we should be able to achieve the same results at a lower frequency.
MOSET: Not particularly efficient, but it might prove interesting.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I'm reading an energy surge in their forward section.
CHAKOTAY: Shields!

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]
EMH: Doctor to bridge. The holodeck's going offline.

[Bridge]
EMH (voiceover): What's happening up there?
JANEWAY: Stand by, Doctor.
TUVOK: They've locked on to us with some sort of tractor beam. It's draining our power.
CHAKOTAY: Reroute emergency power to the holodeck. Send an antimatter surge through the shield's matrix. See if that'll loosen their grip.
TUVOK: No effect. We do have weapons.
JANEWAY: No. If they wanted to destroy us, they wouldn't be using a tractor beam. They're trying to rescue their crew member.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: This isn't about logic, Tuvok, it's about instinct. Now I may not speak their language, but I have a gut feeling they don't want an armed conflict any more than we do. Bridge to Doctor. What's your status?

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]
MOSET: The procedure's working.
EMH: Almost there, Captain.
MOSET: It's losing motor control. The tendrils are withdrawing from her lungs, liver, kidneys. The alien's life signs are failing.
EMH: We need a substitute for the metabolic energy it was taking from B'Elanna.
MOSET: Could we restore its own metabolism?
EMH: Perhaps. Give it forty milligrams of stenophyl. It's going into anaphylactic shock.
MOSET: All right, increasing the dosage to sixty milligrams.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We've lost power on decks seven through twelve.
TUVOK: Shields are failing, Captain.
JANEWAY: Doctor?

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]
EMH: Stand by, Captain.
MOSET: Anaphylaxia is subsiding.
EMH: Its electrolytic reactions are increasing. Its metabolism is stabilizing on its own. Bridge, beam the lifeform to its ship.

[Bridge]
KIM: Transport complete.
TUVOK: The alien ship is withdrawing, Captain.
JANEWAY: You're welcome.

[Ready room]
EMH: I've released B'Elanna to her quarters.
JANEWAY: Her condition?
EMH: Stable, but her nervous system has suffered extreme trauma. She'll need time to recover. Several days, at least.
JANEWAY: Good work.
EMH: I should caution you, Captain. When I told her that we'd used Moset's program she was unhappy, to put it mildly. I nearly had to sedate her.
JANEWAY: It sounds like her Klingon temper has fully recovered.
EMH: It practically qualifies as a chronic condition.
JANEWAY: I'll speak to her.
EMH: There's one more topic of concern. Should we delete the program or keep Moset in our database for future emergencies?
JANEWAY: I'm inclined to leave this up to you, Doctor. You're the Chief Medical Officer on this ship. As far as I'm concerned, there's no one more qualified than you to make that decision.
EMH: Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: But please make it quickly. I'm eager to resolve this matter. There's been enough moral controversy on this ship for one day.

[Torres' quarters]
TORRES: Come in.
JANEWAY: At ease. Interesting fragrance. I'm surprised it hasn't set off the environmental alarms.
TORRES: It's a combination of mental relaxant and expeller of demons. It's an ancient Klingon remedy.
JANEWAY: Feeling any better?
TORRES: I'm alive.
JANEWAY: I hope you can understand why I went against your wishes, B'Elanna. Losing you was unacceptable. I know you're angry, but we need to put this behind us. Understood?
TORRES: Is that an order?
JANEWAY: Yes.
TORRES: You can't order someone to get rid of an emotion, Captain.
JANEWAY: And what emotion is that?
TORRES: You had no right to make that decision for me!
JANEWAY: I'm the Captain. You're my crewman. I did what I thought best. I get the feeling there are still a few demons in the air. Let's hope this does the trick, huh?

[Holodeck - Moset's lab]
MOSET: Doc, how's our patient?
EMH: Recuperating.
MOSET: We did it.
EMH: Yes, we did.
MOSET: A celebration is in order. How about listening to that opera you promised me? Oh, you're er, still wrestling with your ethical subroutines. Take my advice. It's a waste of time. What's important is that we saved two lives today.
EMH: I'm not concerned with today. It's tomorrow I'm worried about. Captain Janeway has left your future in my hands. She believes that, as Voyager's Chief Medical Officer, it's up to me to decide whether your program remains in our database.
MOSET: Personally, I predict a long and fruitful collaboration between us.
EMH: Oh?
MOSET: Think about what we accomplished in the last twenty four hours. Our first case was a triumph. Both patients are thriving, and we advanced the frontiers of medical science. I've already outlined a paper that you and I will one day present to the Federation Medical Academy. Total Systemic Invasion of a Klingon-Human Hybrid by a Cytoplasmic Pseudoparasite. Has a nice ring to it, don't you think?
EMH: Are we also going to tell them where you honed your surgical techniques? A footnote, perhaps. For further details, see Cardassian death camps.
MOSET: Those techniques were crucial this morning. Where was your sarcasm then?
EMH: I didn't come here to debate the issue with you, Crell. I came here to inform you of my decision. It is my judgment that the Medical Consultant Program and all the algorithms contained therein shall be deleted from the database. In light of recent evidence I cannot in good conscience utilize research that was derived from such inhuman practices.
MOSET: In good conscience? What about the well-being of your crew? You're confronted by new forms of life every day, many of them dangerous. You need me. Delete my program and you violate the first oath you took as a physician. Do no harm.
EMH: Do no harm. You have no right to say those words. Computer.
MOSET: You can erase my program, Doctor, but you can never change the fact that you've already used some of my research. Where was your conscience when B'Elanna was dying on that table? Ethics? Morality? Conscience? Funny how they all go out the airlock when we need something. Are you and I really so different?
EMH: Computer, delete Medical Consultant Program and all related files.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Thomas Eugene Paris. I hereby reduce you to the rank of Ensign, and I sentence you to thirty days solitary confinement. Take Ensign Paris to the brig.
PARIS: I know the way.

[Turbolift]
PARIS: Brig.

[Brig]
PARIS: One, two, three
PARIS: Ninety eight, ninety nine, one hundred.
NEELIX: Staying in shape?
PARIS: Oh, yeah. I do it every time I'm in jail.
NEELIX: Well, I hope all that exercise gave you an appetite.
PARIS: Leola root stew again? That's the third time this week. Can't you just replicate me a pizza?
NEELIX: Sorry, Tom. Basic nutrition only. Captain's orders.
PARIS: Bread and water, huh? Let's have it.
NEELIX: I got you the PADD you asked for.
PARIS: Oh, thanks. So, did you ask the warden about those holodeck privileges?
NEELIX: She said, and I quote, tell Mister Paris this is punishment, not shore leave.
PARIS: It was worth a try.
NEELIX: Well, see you next meal.
PARIS: Wait. Leaving already? Pull up a chair, stay a while.
NEELIX: Sorry. No non-essential conversation with the prisoner.
PARIS: Did the words cruel and unusual mean anything to her? I'm telling you, Neelix, the inmates are getting restless. She's going to have a full-blown prison riot on her hands.
PARIS: Begin letter. Dear Father. Pause and erase. Begin. To Admiral Paris. Pause and erase. Begin. Hey, Dad, long time no see. Chances are you'll never receive this letter, but in case you do, there's a few things I wanted to say. First of all, bad news. Er, I'm in jail again. Wait, keep listening, don't turn this off. I want you to know how I ended up in here because it's not what you think. It all started on a morning I was doing something you would find a complete waste of time.

[Holodeck - Captain Proton program]
PARIS: Captain Proton to Buster Kincaid. I've destroyed Doctor Chaotica's mind control machine and I'm on my way back to the spaceship.
DEMONICA-JENNY (voiceover): Hello, Proton.
PARIS: Who is this?

[Proton's ship]
DEMONICA-JENNY: An old friend.
MALICIA-MEGAN: Make that two old friends.
PARIS (voiceover): The Twin Mistresses of Evil. I should have known.
DEMONICA-JENNY: I'm afraid your trusty sidekick is indisposed at the moment.
KIM: Don't worry about me, Captain. I can handle myself.
DEMONICA-JENNY: We'll see about that. Bring me the brain probe.
MALICIA-MEGAN: The what?
DEMONICA-JENNY: The brain probe, you insolent fool.
MALICIA-MEGAN: Oh, right. Your wish is my command. Sorry, Harry.
KIM: No problem. Torture me all you want, Demonica, I'll never crack.
DEMONICA-JENNY: Oh, but you will.
MALICIA-MEGAN: By the time we're through with you you'll be begging to tell us everything you know.
DEMONICA-JENNY: You'll be our puppet.
MALICIA-MEGAN: Our slave,
KIM: Great. you're doing great.
PARIS: You're done for, Demonica.
MALICIA-MEGAN: Malicia, She's Demonica.
PARIS: Whatever. You two are going to jail for a very long time.
MALICIA-MEGAN: Ooh.
DEMONICA-JENNY: Ooh.
PARIS: Move it, toots.
MALICIA-MEGAN: He's so brave.
DEMONICA-JENNY: It's a shame we'll have to kill him.
KIM: I've got everything under control, Proton, shouldn't you be getting back to Headquarters?
PARIS: And leave you at the mercy of these two?
KIM: Come on, Tom. I'm just getting to the good part.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Senior officers report to the bridge.
PARIS: I guess the good part'll have to wait.

[Corridor]
PARIS: Any progress on those starcharts?
MEGAN: I'll have them to you by fourteen hundred.
PARIS: Fourteen hundred? You told me they'd be done yesterday.
MEGAN: I'm sorry, Tom. The sensor array went offline. Seven of Nine will have it up and running this morning. Fourteen hundred, I promise.
KIM: You need some help? I'm not on duty again till tomorrow morning.
MEGAN: No, I don't want to spoil your day off.
KIM: Oh, I don't mind.
MEGAN: Thanks anyway.
JENNY: See you Lieutenant. Buster.
KIM: Bye.
PARIS: I think Jenny really likes you.
KIM: Yeah, I know.
PARIS: I thought the feeling was mutual.
KIM: How many times do I have to tell you? I like Megan, but she won't give me the time of day.
PARIS: What is the difference?
KIM: You can't be serious.
PARIS: They're the Delaney sisters, Harry. They're twins.
KIM: Are you kidding? They're nothing alike. Jenny's aggressive and sometimes annoying. But Megan, she's quiet, artistic, and she's got that cute little dimple in her right cheek.
PARIS: Jenny doesn't have the dimple?
KIM: No dimple.

[Turbolift]
KIM: Bridge.
PARIS: Well, you've done it again, Harry.
KIM: What?
PARIS: Fallen for the unattainable woman. First it was a hologram, then a Borg, and now the wrong twin.
KIM: At least I'm consistent.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Sorry to interrupt your fun, gentlemen, but long range sensors have picked up something interesting.
CHAKOTAY: A concentrated mass of oxygen and hydrogen. Lots of animal and plant life.
KIM: An M-class planet?
JANEWAY: No, that's the interesting part.
TUVOK: We're entering visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
KIM: What is it?
PARIS: It's an ocean.
CHAKOTAY: According to these readings, it's bigger than the Atlantic and Pacific combined.
PARIS: What's holding it together?
KIM: Looks like there's some sort of containment field keeping it from dissipating.
JANEWAY: Take us in closer, Tom.
PARIS: Are those starships or submarines?
JANEWAY: Open a channel. This is Captain Janeway of the Starship Voyager. Please identify yourselves.
TUVOK: They are powering weapons.
JANEWAY: Shields. Red alert.
TUVOK: Shields holding, no damage. Should I return fire?
JANEWAY: Not yet. Voyager to approaching vessels. We have no hostile intentions.
PARIS: They're maintaining their course.
JANEWAY: Target the lead ship and take out their weapons.
TUVOK: Direct hit.
KIM: They're hailing.
JANEWAY: I guess we got their attention. On screen.
BURKUS (screen): I'm Deputy Consul Burkus of the Monean Maritime Sovereignty. You've violated our space. Withdraw or we'll resume firing.
JANEWAY: Consul, we could have destroyed your ships, but we didn't. We have no interest in a fight.
BURKUS (screen): Then why are you here?
JANEWAY: Because we're explorers, and we're fascinated by your ocean. And we'd like to learn more about it, and your people if you'd be willing.
BURKUS (screen): And if we are not?
JANEWAY: We'll be disappointed, but we'll leave you alone.
BURKUS (screen): Your ship's impressive.
JANEWAY: Well, I'd be happy to give you a tour.

[Corridor]
BURKUS: Forgive our vigilance, Captain. Over the years, my government has had to protect our ocean from more than one hostile species.
JANEWAY: I understand. We're also very protective of our own natural resources.
NEELIX: We're always interested in learning about other cultures. Yours sounds particularly fascinating.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: And this is Voyager's command center. Feel free to have a look around.
NEELIX: I'm curious, Consul. Have your people always lived here?
BURKUS: Our ancestors were nomadic. They only discovered the waters three hundred years ago.
PARIS: I'll bet they were as stunned as we were to find this huge ball of water floating in space.
BURKUS: Yes. Mister?
PARIS: Paris. Tom Paris.
JANEWAY: My First Officer, Commander Chakotay.
BURKUS: They realized they could farm sea vegetation, extract oxygen from the ocean for their ships, create a permanent home.
PARIS: What's your population?
BURKUS: More than eighty thousand.
PARIS: And you all live underwater?
TUVOK: Lieutenant, we do have other business to attend to.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, escort our guest to the briefing room. Care to join us, Mister Paris?
PARIS: How could you tell?

[Briefing room]
NEELIX: Do you still live aboard your ships?
BURKUS: We've built an industrial infrastructure and undersea dwellings, but yes, most of our people still choose to live as our ancestors did.
JANEWAY: Any idea how the ocean came into existence? In my experience, it's a unique phenomenon.
BURKUS: Riga?
RIGA: There are several theories. Our clerics teach that the ocean was a divine gift from the creators to protect and sustain us. But, in my opinion, the most plausible explanation is that the ocean formed naturally, much the same way that a gas giant does.
JANEWAY: Makes sense.
RIGA: Unfortunately, our limited knowledge of the phenomenon has created a few problems.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
BURKUS: I'm not sure this is an appropriate topic.
RIGA: But they might be able to help us.
JANEWAY: We'll do anything we can.
RIGA: The ocean's losing containment. Hydro-volume has decreased more than seven percent in the last year alone.
JANEWAY: Any idea what's causing it?
RIGA: No. To make a thorough study we'd need to explore the ocean center where I believe the gravitational currents are fluctuating.
PARIS: But that's more that six hundred kilometers deep.
RIGA: Our best research vessel can only go one hundred kilometers. Beyond that the pressure's too great.
PARIS: Well, we could take you there. Captain?

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: I had no idea you were such an old salt.
PARIS: When I saw that ocean today, it reminded me of the first time I read Jules Verne.
JANEWAY: 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.
PARIS: I must have read it twenty thousand times. I was obsessed with stories about the ocean. All of my friends were busy with their holoprograms. I had my head buried in Captains Courageous, Moby Dick.
JANEWAY: So your interest in history includes the nineteenth century as well?
PARIS: Ancient sailing ships were always my first love. I had it all planned. Finish high school, join the Federation Naval Patrol. But my father had other ideas.
JANEWAY: You'd think Admiral Paris might have understood his son's passion.
PARIS: As far as he was concerned, the only ship I was going to serve on had to have a Starfleet insignia on it.
JANEWAY: So now you have an opportunity to make up for lost time.
PARIS: Captain, with a few simple thruster modifications to the Delta Flyer, she will be seaworthy in no time.
JANEWAY: Good. It'd take at least a week to make the necessary modifications to Voyager.
PARIS: Then it's my mission?
JANEWAY: Bon voyage.

[Corridor]
PARIS: And so, I thought to myself, who better than Harry to be my first mate?
KIM: First mate?
PARIS: Oh, sailor talk. You'll get the hang of it. I'm telling you, Harry, I have been dreaming about something like this for as long as I can remember.
KIM: Correct me if I'm wrong, but there is a mission involved here, right?
PARIS: Of course, but there's no law says we can't have a little fun along the way. Ah, boatswain. Ready to shove off?
SEVEN: What are you talking about, Lieutenant?
PARIS: Call me Skipper.
KIM: Sailor talk. You'll get used to it.
SEVEN: I think not. Hull and thruster reinforcements are complete.
PARIS: That's what I wanted to hear.
RIGA: Oh, excuse me. Am I in the right place?
PARIS: Welcome aboard. I see you like to travel light.
RIGA: These are my instruments for measuring depth, pressure, currents.
SEVEN: We will not need them. This vessel is equipped with a complete sensor array.
RIGA: Oh.
PARIS: It's okay. You can store your gear in the hold.

[Delta Flyer]
KIM: Twenty thousand kilometers to the surface.
PARIS: Immersion shielding?
SEVEN: Active.
PARIS: Anchors aweigh.
PARIS: Those structures, what are they?
RIGA: It's our main oxygen refinery and desalination plant.
SEVEN: Corrosion resistant alloys, variable density ballast. An efficient design.
KIM: That means she's impressed.
RIGA: We're very proud of what we've built here.
PARIS: I can see why.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid we have some disturbing news.
BURKUS: Oh?
JANEWAY: We've run a computer simulation to determine the rate of dissipation. It's worse than Mister Riga thought.
CHAKOTAY: According to our estimates the ocean could experience a complete loss of containment in less than five years.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry.
BURKUS: Your calculations could be wrong.
JANEWAY: I know it sounds grim, but there may be some way to stop the process.
BURKUS: And if there isn't?
JANEWAY: You might have to consider evacuating.
BURKUS: I'm supposed to go back and explain this to forty seven regional sovereigns? They'll pass their first unanimous resolution, calling for my head.
JANEWAY: I can imagine how difficult this must be for you, but you will have to tell them.
BURKUS: Perhaps, but I'll wait until your Delta Flyer returns. Maybe they'll find something tangible.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: We're at a depth of five hundred and sixty kilometers.
RIGA: What was that?
SEVEN: The hull contracting.
KIM: Rerouting additional power to structural integrity. Nothing to worry about.
SEVEN: I'm detecting multiphasic energy discharges bearing zero one two mark six. Range twelve kilometers. A structure.
RIGA: At this depth?
PARIS: Adjusting course. I can't see anything. Give me forward illumination, Harry.
RIGA: What is it?
KIM: It's generating massive amounts of artificial gravity. Looks like some kind of field reactor.
RIGA: If it's malfunctioning that would explain the loss of hydro-volume.
PARIS: Maybe it can be repaired. It looks ancient.
KIM: Well, if these readings are right, it's at least a hundred thousand years old.
RIGA: We have no records of any previous inhabitants. Who built it? Where did they go?
KIM: Looks like the reactor's controlled by a core computer. I'll try to upload the database and get some answers.
PARIS: Initiate the interface.
SEVEN: Upload in progress .
RIGA: What's happening?
PARIS: We've got a visitor.
RIGA: What was it?
KIM: You're the one who lives here. You tell us.
RIGA: No one's ever been this far down before. We don't know anything about marine life at these depths.
SEVEN: You are about to have the opportunity to make a detailed study.
SEVEN: The creature is emitting biothermic discharges.
KIM: It's like some kind of electric eel.
PARIS: Only a hell of a lot bigger.
SEVEN: And significantly more powerful. That last discharge exceeded five hundred thousand volts.
KIM: The shields are fried, Tom. You might want to think about getting us out of here.
PARIS: Thrusters are offline.
SEVEN: Targeting forward phasers.
RIGA: No, you can't kill it.
SEVEN: I do not intend to. Unfortunately the creature does not seem to be of a similar opinion.
PARIS: How's that upload coming?
KIM: Another couple of minutes.
SEVEN: Firing phasers.
PARIS: We only made him madder.
SEVEN: The creature is retreating.
KIM: We've got a breach.
PARIS: I'm on it.

[Brig]
PARIS: Six hundred kilometers underwater, propulsion offline, water pouring into the cabin. It was like something out of one of those Jules Verne stories you used to read me when I was a kid.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Red alert. All hands to battle stations.
PARIS: Hey, what about me? If we're in trouble we need our best pilot at the helm! You can't just leave me here!
PARIS: Five ships? And they just opened fire without warning?
EMH: Mmm hmm.
PARIS: How did we get away?
EMH: Apparently, Ensign Culhane confused the enemy with a brilliant series of evasive maneuvers. I hear Captain Janeway is considering him for Chief Conn. officer.
PARIS: Oh, yeah? Well, you just tell the Captain that Culhane's brilliant maneuvers almost knocked me unconscious. You'd think he'd never flown a shuttle, much less a starship.
EMH: There we are,
PARIS: That's it? Aren't you going to run a neurological scan? Maybe I should be granted a medical reprieve.
EMH: Your injury was what Naomi Wildman refers to as a boo-boo.
PARIS: Come on, Doc, you don't understand what it's like being down here all day, every day. I'm going crazy.
EMH: Correct me if I'm wrong, but isn't that the idea?
PARIS: No, seriously Doc, you might want to take me down to Sickbay for a full psychiatric evaluation. Three or four days of observation at least.
EMH: See you in twenty days.
PARIS: Doc! Resume recording. Okay, Dad, where were we? Ah, right. We had just sprung a leak.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Nothing like a cold shower to wake up the senses.
KIM: Structural integrity is weakening. We've lost communications, shields, propulsion.
SEVEN: We can reduce our density by venting plasma and transporting all non-essential equipment off the ship. It will take time, but we will eventually rise to the surface.
PARIS: I think we should stay.
RIGA: Stay?
PARIS: I'm not about to be scared off by a few damaged systems.
KIM: Tom, don't you think maybe you're carrying this Captains Courageous thing a little too far?
PARIS: Look, it's a good bet the reactor's malfunctioning. Now we're only going to get one shot at fixing it. You want to leave? Fine. Give me an environmental suit and you can pick me up after you've repaired the Flyer.
KIM: You're going for a swim? Are you crazy?
PARIS: You have a better idea?
KIM: Well, we already managed to interface with the reactor's computer. Maybe we can make the repairs, maybe we can't, but I'm not leaving you down here alone.
PARIS: What about you two?
RIGA: I'll stay.
PARIS: Seven?
SEVEN: It is in my nature to comply with the Collective.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I'm detecting a breach in the containment field.
CHAKOTAY: Any way we can seal it?
TUVOK: We might try reinforcing the field with a deflector beam.
JANEWAY: Do it. Try hailing the Delta Flyer again.
CHAKOTAY: Nothing.
BURKUS: What do you think's happened?
JANEWAY: They may be too deep to receive a transmission.
BURKUS: They may have had an accident.
JANEWAY: It's possible.
BURKUS: Possible? Captain, I'll need a better explanation than that. What am I supposed to tell the Council?
JANEWAY: Clarify something for me. Are you more concerned about the lives of the people on that shuttle or your political career?

[Delta Flyer]
RIGA: What's that?
SEVEN: A gravimetric discharge. The reactor's core is unstable.
PARIS: You'd be unstable too if you were as old as this thing.
KIM: Age has nothing to do with it. The reactor's diverting massive amounts of power to its structural integrity field. Power normally reserved for oceanic containment.
PARIS: That would explain why containment is weakening.
KIM: Looks like the density of the water's been increasing over the past few years. It seems the reactor's just trying to keep itself from being crushed.
PARIS: Can we initiate a power transfer? Stabilize the core?
SEVEN: I believe so, but it would be a temporary solution.
PARIS: That's better than nothing.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, full containment has just been re-established.
JANEWAY: The deflector beam?
TUVOK: Negative. The ocean appears to have been stabilized from within.
BURKUS: It looks like our team has succeeded.
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking up an object on a slow ascent. It's the Flyer.

[Delta Flyer - lab]
RIGA: You've found something?
PARIS: I've been studying the generator's database. You're not going to believe this, but apparently, your ocean used to be part of a landmass.
RIGA: Really?
PARIS: As far as I can tell, it was part of a planetary ecozystem inhabited by a very advanced civilization.
RIGA: What happened to them?
PARIS: That's a good question. All I know is they launched this reactor into orbit. They used some kind of elaborate kinetic transfer system to draw the water and everything in it up to the reactor.
RIGA: Extraordinary. Why would anyone want to move an entire ocean?
PARIS: Maybe there was some kind of disaster on the planet, or maybe it was just an experiment.
RIGA: That must have been a massive undertaking.
PARIS: Took them almost two hundred years.
RIGA: I wonder what they'd think if they knew we settled here and built another civilization.
PARIS: Actually, I think they'd be pretty concerned.
RIGA: Oh?
PARIS: This field reactor that they designed, it's a pretty amazing piece of technology. Durable. I don't think it's responsible for the loss of containment.
RIGA: But as soon as we made the recalibration, the water stabilized. I don't see what else it could be.
PARIS: Riga, your mining operations are destroying the ocean.

[Paris' dream]
PARIS (voiceover): You'll never get into Starfleet Academy by playing with toys. Do your homework. Are you listening to me, Thomas?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Thomas Eugene Paris, I hereby reduce you to the rank of Ensign and I sentence you to thirty years of solitary confinement
ADMIRAL PARIS (voiceover): Go to your room, young man. That's an order. Stay there and think about what I've said.
KIM: Tom?

[Brig]
KIM: Tom? Tom, wake up. Bad dream?
PARIS: Oh, you could say that.
KIM: You know, you look like hell.
PARIS: Thanks. How'd you get past the guard?
KIM: The Vulcan neck pinch.
PARIS: Come to spring me?
KIM: Well, the Captain finally gave me permission to visit, but I've only got a few minutes.
PARIS: That's big of her.
KIM: How are you doing?
PARIS: Oh, thirty days? No problem. How's B'Elanna?
KIM: She misses you.
PARIS: Yeah, I know the feeling.
KIM: So, what have you been doing to pass the time?
PARIS: Thinking and, thinking. Trying not to think. Actually, I started recording a letter to my father.
KIM: Really?
PARIS: Yeah. For some reason I, I wanted to explain to him how I ended up in here. I didn't want him to think. Well, anyway, I realized how ridiculous it was.
KIM: You should finish it.
PARIS: Give me one good reason.
KIM: Maybe he'll hear it someday.
PARIS: Doubtful.
KIM: You'll feel better getting it off your chest?
PARIS: Are you bucking for ship's counselor, Harry?
KIM: What are you going to do, delete the letter? That would be pointless.
PARIS: At least I'm consistent.
KIM: Tom.
PARIS: Thanks for the visit, Harry.
KIM: See you in fourteen.
KIM: What was it you once told me? That your father used to say you never finished anything.
PARIS (voiceover): Resume recording, So, we told Consul Burkus about the alien field reactor and how his oxygen refineries were destroying it. He took the news pretty well. At first.

[Briefing room]
BURKUS: The Council's very grateful for your help, Captain. They've asked me to request the shield and thruster schematics for your Delta Flyer. We're hoping to design a probe that'll allow us to monitor the containment generator.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Torres will give you everything you need.
TORRES: I've also drawn up some designs for an oxygen replication system. It'll allow you to create free oxygen without extricating it from the water. It won't solve your problems overnight, but it's a start.
BURKUS: I'm sure it'll be very helpful.
RIGA: Our oxygen extraction levels are still dangerously high. I'm going to recommend shutting down refineries four, five and six.
BURKUS: We'll take it under advisement. Well, Captain, I wish you a safe journey.
JANEWAY: Oh, we have a few more suggestions if you'd like to hear them.
BURKUS: Please. Pass them along to Mister Riga. He'll include them in his report.
PARIS: I'm curious. Who's going to read that report?
BURKUS: It will be given to the subcommittees on life support and agriculture.
RIGA: Excuse me, Consul. I'm not sure you understand the magnitude of the crisis. What you're suggesting could take months.
BURKUS: Thank you, Mister Riga.
PARIS: You should listen to him. If you don't make some serious changes around here soon, that ocean won't be here much longer.
BURKUS: As I said, we understand his concerns.
PARIS: Do you? Seems to me like you're just trying to sidestep the issue and send us on our way.
BURKUS: With all due respect, who are you to tell us what to do with our ocean?
PARIS: With all due respect, it's not your ocean.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant.
BURKUS: It's all right, Captain. I'd like to respond, but not as a diplomat, as a Monean. You came here claiming you wanted to learn about our way of life and now, having spent three days here, you're suggesting we abandon it. We have an expression. Brine in the veins. Tell him what it means.
RIGA: It's used to describe someone who has special connection to the waters.
BURKUS: My family has lived here for ten generations. We protected this ocean, cultivated it, lived in harmony with the animals that inhabit it. Can you say the same? I didn't think so. Good day, Captain.
PARIS: We can't just let this go.
JANEWAY: What do you want me to do?
PARIS: Of course. The almighty Prime Directive.
JANEWAY: Would you please excuse us, Lieutenant?
TORRES: See you later.
JANEWAY: I know you're upset, Lieutenant, but when you're in a room with me you check that attitude at the door, understood?
PARIS: Captain, I'm sorry
JANEWAY: We can't expect an entire society to change because we think they should.
PARIS: Then you agree with me.
JANEWAY: Yes, and we gave them the help they asked for. We told them what we know. Now it's up to them to do what they think is appropriate.
PARIS: You heard that Consul. They're not going to do a damn thing.
JANEWAY: Maybe not, but that's their prerogative.
PARIS: Captain.
JANEWAY: End of discussion, Lieutenant. At fourteen hundred hours, we'll resume a course for the Alpha Quadrant. Is that clear. Is that clear?
PARIS: As a bell.

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]
TORRES: Hey. Here to stamp out intergalactic evil?
PARIS: It's funny.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: I went on this mission expecting to play out a childhood fantasy. But along the way, when I realized that ocean would just be gone one day, it started to matter to me. It sounds pretty stupid, huh?
TORRES: No. No, it sounds like you've found yourself a cause.
PARIS: I never thought of myself as a cause kind of guy.
TORRES: Well, for what it's worth, I'm proud of you.
PARIS: Thanks. But Captain Proton's not going to be able to save the day this time, is he?
TORRES: What about Tom Paris?

[Transporter room]
RIGA: Council chamber, please.
PARIS: Riga. You're dismissed, crewman.
PARIS: I want you to tell me honestly. What do you think's going to happen now?
RIGA: I think the bureaucracy isn't going to make more than token changes.
PARIS: Isn't there anything else you can do?
RIGA: I don't see how, other than taking the oxygen refineries offline.
PARIS: What would happen, hypothetically, if someone were to shut down the refineries?
RIGA: Well, I suppose they'd have to be rebuilt.
PARIS: Yeah, and they'd probably be more willing to redesign them while they're at it. If nothing else, it would grab their attention.
RIGA: Are you suggesting
PARIS: I'm just asking questions, because I'm not supposed to get involved in the internal affairs of alien worlds. Unless, of course, someone makes a direct request.
RIGA: If you can get me down there, I'd be willing to do it.
PARIS: You'd be risking your life.
RIGA: I know.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, there has just been an unauthorized launch from shuttlebay one, The Delta Flyer.
JANEWAY: Tom.
JANEWAY: Hail him.
TUVOK: No response.
CHAKOTAY: Try a tractor beam.
TUVOK: We're out of range.
KIM: We're being hailed, Captain. It's Consul Burkus.
BURKUS (screen): Your shuttlecraft has violated our borders. I demand an explanation.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris is acting without authorisation.
BURKUS (screen): To what end?
JANEWAY: According to our scans, Mister Riga is with him. I have to assume they intend to take some sort of radical action to protect the ocean.
BURKUS (screen): Then I presume you intend to take radical action to stop them.

[Delta Flyer]
COMPUTER: Warning. Hull pressure approaching critical.
RIGA: We're going down too fast.
PARIS: It's the only way we can outrun your ships.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Paris. Return to Voyager immediately.
PARIS: Sorry, Captain. I can't do that.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Lieutenant, you are disobeying a direct order.
PARIS: I know.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: He cut us off.
JANEWAY: What the hell are they up to?
KIM: Looks like they're heading directly beneath the industrial complex.
JANEWAY: Can we reach them with phasers?
TUVOK: Unadvisable. It would create a hydro-dynamic shock wave.
CHAKOTAY: What about an old-fashioned depth charge?
TUVOK: It should be possible to modify a photon torpedo.
CHAKOTAY: We could program it to detonate once it's in proximity to the Delta Flyer.
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: The torpedo is ready, Captain. However, the Delta Flyer has submerged below our targeting range.
KIM: Consul Burkus, hailing again.
JANEWAY: On screen.
BURKUS (screen): Our refinery workers have been given five minutes to clear the structure. Was this the kind of evacuation you had in mind, Captain?
JANEWAY: Can you get them our in time?
BURKUS (screen): Yes, but,
JANEWAY: Do it. I'll find a way to protect your refinery. End transmission.
BURKUS (screen): Captain!
TUVOK: He descended to avoid attack. If my calculations are correct, he will have to come back up to a depth of two thousand meters to strike his target.
JANEWAY: Giving us a window of opportunity,
TUVOK: Precisely.
KIM: Captain, this is Tom we're talking about. We're not going to open fire, are we?
JANEWAY: As far as I'm concerned, he forfeited his status as a protected member of this crew the second he launched that shuttle.

[Delta Flyer]
RIGA: How long till we reach our target?
PARIS: Thirty six seconds.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: He's started his ascent.
JANEWAY: Hail him.
KIM: Go ahead.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Paris, this is your final warning.
KIM: He's not responding.
JANEWAY: Arm the torpedo.
KIM: Twenty seconds to weapons range.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Are you sure you want to go through with this?
RIGA: Do you?
PARIS: I've taken you this far. We'd better arm that missile.
RIGA: Missile armed.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Stand down, Mister Paris.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Or I will open fire.
KIM: Still no answer.

[Delta Flyer]
RIGA: Time.
PARIS: Ten seconds. Nine.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Eight. Seven. Six.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Five. Four. Three.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Two. One.
JANEWAY: Fire.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Fire!

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The Flyer has been disabled.
JANEWAY: Their missile?
TUVOK: Deflected.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, Stardate 52179.4. After salvaging the Delta Flyer, we've resumed our course toward the Alpha Quadrant. I now have to turn my attention to a matter of discipline.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Thomas Eugene Paris. You are guilty of insubordination, unauthorized use of a spacecraft, reckless endangerment, and conduct unbecoming an officer. Do you have anything to say?
PARIS: Riga needed my help.
JANEWAY: In doing so, you disobeyed my direct orders.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: You violated the protocols that govern this crew.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: You nearly caused an armed conflict with the Moneans. And frankly, you're lucky to be standing here right now. I would have destroyed your shuttle if necessary.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. Permission to speak freely. Riga's people weren't going to listen. They were going to ignore our warnings.
JANEWAY: You don't know that.
PARIS: Riga knew, and I was the only one who could help them.
JANEWAY: I understand your passion, but passion alone doesn't give you the right to take matters into your own hands. Four years ago, I released you from prison and gave you a fresh start. Until now, you've been a fine officer. Your service on this ship has been exemplary. I really believed you were past this kind of conduct.
PARIS: I've never been very good at playing by the rules. That doesn't mean that serving under your command hasn't changed me, for the better. At least this time, I broke the rules for a reason. For something I believed in.
JANEWAY: I admire your principles, Tom, but I can't ignore what you've done. I hereby reduce you to the rank of Ensign, and I sentence you to thirty days solitary confinement. Take Ensign Paris to the brig.
PARIS: I know the way.

[Brig]
TUVOK: Rise and shine, Ensign. Your thirty days have been served. Report for duty. You may want to shave first.
PARIS: Yes, sir.

[Paris' quarters]
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to Paris.
PARIS: Go ahead.
TORRES (voiceover): Rumor has it that you're free for dinner.
PARIS: Gee, I don't know. Are you sure you want to be seen associating with an ex-con?
TORRES (voiceover): My quarters, oh seven hundred. That's an order, Ensign.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
PARIS: Resume recording. Well, I'm out now and back to my duties. I honestly don't know if I'll ever understand you, or what went wrong between us, but I hope this letter helps you understand me a little better. Computer, file letter in my personal database, and transmit when we're within range of Earth.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: The Devore ships are assuming a tactical formation.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Transporter room. Status.

[Transporter room]
KIM: All set here, Captain. Pattern cohesion looks stable.

[Cargo Bay one]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Cargo Bay one, Report.
SEVEN: The bay is clear.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: They're powering weapons.
PARIS: Why do they bother? They know we won't resist.
JANEWAY: Protocol, Mister Paris.
CHAKOTAY: They're hailing.
PRAX (screen): Gaharay vessel, prepare to be inspected. Crew members are instructed to step away from their stations.
JANEWAY: We know the drill.
PRAX (screen): Sidearms and scanning equipment are to be set aside. Deviation from this or any other inspection protocols will not be tolerated.
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Prepare to be boarded by Devore inspection teams. Give them your full cooperation. Let's get this over with.
CHAKOTAY: Their soldiers have materialized on decks fifteen, eleven, four and one.
KASHYK (voiceover): Captain Janeway, report to your Ready room.

[Ready room]
KASHYK: Good morning, Captain. I took the liberty of playing this music throughout your ship. I thought it might help your crew relax. Sometimes these inspections can be stressful.
JANEWAY: How thoughtful.
KASHYK: I've replicated some coffee. Black, as usual?
JANEWAY: Black.
KASHYK: Prax here still refuses to try it but then, he's a man of few pleasures.
KASHYK: Captain, Please, make yourself at home.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Those cell cultures are extremely fragile. Please

[Engineering]
PRAX: You've been routing power through your transporter system. Why?
TORRES: It's a routine diagnostic. We've been having trouble with our imaging scanners.
PRAX: The problem is in the primary energizing coils. Focus your efforts there.
TORRES: Thanks for the tip.

[Cargo Bay one]
PRAX: Contaminated antimatter. This material could interfere with our readings. A bionetic implant?
SEVEN: An interlink node. It permits communication with other Borg drones.
PRAX: You are not a telepath.
SEVEN: No.

[Ready room]
KASHYK: Remarkable. How old is this?
JANEWAY: About six hundred years. My grandfather gave it to me when I was a child.
KASHYK: It seems you have a long-standing obsession with exploration, Captain. I, on the other hand, have much more in common with this ancient soldier.
JANEWAY: He's from Earth's classical period. It produced some of our greatest artists as well.
KASHYK: Your culture has many contradictions. Violence and beauty, science and faith, all somehow mingled harmoniously. Like the counterpoint of this music. Mahler. Symphony Number One, am I correct?
JANEWAY: You're getting to know my musical database better than I do.
KASHYK: I've had time to review it since our last encounter.
JANEWAY: Tell me, are all of your inspections this personal?
KASHYK: I'm just trying to get to know you, Captain. There's no reason for us to be adversaries. I could be your friend, and right now you could certainly use one.
JANEWAY: Really? Why is that?
KASHYK: Your predicament? I don't expect it's been easy. Thousands of light years from home, navigating by strange stars, trespassing in other people's space, ignoring their laws.
JANEWAY: We're just trying to get back to Earth, Inspector.
KASHYK: Through the Devore Imperium?
JANEWAY: It's tough to avoid.
KASHYK: Still, most people make the effort. We don't exactly embrace outsiders.
JANEWAY: Gaharay?
KASHYK: It means strangers. Which brings me to a matter that could threaten our friendship. I've examined your crew manifest from our last inspection. Commander Tuvok, Ensign Vorik. Vulcans. Ensigns Suder and Jurot. Betazoids. All telepaths, and yet for some reason you neglected to mention them.
JANEWAY: For a very simple reason. They're dead. Tuvok, Vorik, and Jurot died in a shuttle crash about two months ago. Suder was killed in a conflict with a species called the Kazon.
KASHYK: That's fortunate, for you I mean. If I'd known you were harboring telepaths I would have had to arrest you for breaking our cardinal protocol.
JANEWAY: They were valued members of my crew, Inspector, not criminals.
KASHYK: Perhaps. Captain do you trust me?
JANEWAY: Not for a second.
KASHYK: Exactly, and why should you? Trust has to be earned. It's gradual. And yet it's the foundation of every relationship, professional and personal. It's also a concept alien to the telepathic races. Why take someone at their word when you can simply read their mind?
PRAX: We've completed our inspection. There are no telepaths aboard. However, their sensor logs indicate they deviated from their assigned course on two occasions.
JANEWAY: In both cases, to avoid ion storms.
PRAX: Imperative thirty two, codicil six twenty six. All Gaharay vehicles that deviate from prescribed flight vectors will be impounded, their crews detained and relocated.
KASHYK: Prax, it's clear the Captain didn't intend to break protocol. I expect we can overlook these infractions.
PRAX: Sir? Yes, sir.
KASHYK: Captain, I'm a reasonable man, and you've been cooperative, but consider this a reminder. You have a long trip through Devore space and good friends can be an asset.
JANEWAY: I'll keep it in mind.

[Bridge]
PARIS: The Devore vessels are out of range.
JANEWAY: Bridge to transporter team. You're clear.

[Cargo Bay one]
SEVEN: Cargo Bay one to Ensign Kim. Pattern enhancers are in place.

[Transporter room]
KIM: Initiating rematerialization sequence.
TORRES (voiceover): Harry?

[Engineering]
TORRES: I'm routing maximum power to the transporters.

[Transporter room]
KIM: Got it. Align the confinement beam to ten angstroms. Energizing.

[Cargo Bay one]
SEVEN: Ensign Kim, the confinement beam is unstable.

[Transporter room]
KIM: We're trying to correct it now.

[Cargo Bay one]
JANEWAY: What's the problem?
SEVEN: We are unable to consolidate their patterns. They've been in suspension too long.
JANEWAY: Harry, increase power to the imaging scanners.
KIM (voiceover): Aye, Captain.

[Transporter room]
KIM: It's working.

[Cargo Bay one]
JANEWAY: Nice work, Harry. All our guests are present and accounted for.
KIR: Captain.
JANEWAY: They're gone. For now.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. After weeks of playing hide and seek with the Devore inspectors, our goal is near. A transport vessel that will take our passengers to a wormhole leading out of hostile territory.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Back to your old self again?
KIR: Each time we do this, I feel as thought I've left a few molecules behind in your Cargo bay.
JANEWAY: Well, I'll have someone scan the room if it'll make you feel better. Kir, we just received an encoded message from the transport vessel.
KIR: They've changed the rendezvous point again.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid so.
KIR: Did they send the new coordinates?
JANEWAY: We're still waiting for them.
TUVOK: Captain, we may have another problem.
EMH: I've just treated Tuvok and two of the refugees for acute cellular degradation. I've repaired most of the damage but unfortunately the effect is cumulative.
KIR: Meaning?
TUVOK: If we continue to go into transporter suspension, some of us may not survive.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We're receiving another transmission.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: The new coordinates are here, within a Mutara-class nebula two point three six light years from our current position.
CHAKOTAY: It's definitely out of the way. Less chance of being discovered, but it'll take two more days to get there.
JANEWAY: Two days. That increases the chances that we'll run into another inspection.
TUVOK: Given the frequency of patrols in that area, it's likely we'll be stopped at least once.
JANEWAY: Just what the Doctor didn't order. Tuvok, Seven, I want you to lay in a course that'll attract as little attention as possible. Avoid their colonies, space stations, tourist attractions, if they have any.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: The Ogre of Fire's Castle hovered over the forest like a great black spaceship, turning day into night. Flotter and Trevis knew they had to find a way to keep the Ogre from burning the forest down, but his castle, it was higher than the tallest tree. It seemed hopeless, until they discovered
ADAR: A door.
NEELIX: A door. Right, a mysterious door right in the middle of the
ADAR: The clearing.
NEELIX: You know, it's, it's not nice to read people's thoughts when they're telling a story.
ADAR: I'm sorry.
NEELIX: It's all right.
NEELIX: Why don't you all go play by yourselves for a while. We'll finish the story later.
JANEWAY: How are they doing?
NEELIX: Oh, fine, more or less. They don't understand what all the fuss is about, but they're telepaths, Captain. If the parents are concerned or fearful the children feel it, too. You did the right thing. If we hadn't taken them off that freighter, they'd be in a detention center by now.
JANEWAY: Well, we're going to make sure that doesn't happen. Is the kitchen still open or are you just serving stories?
NEELIX: For you, it's always open.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I'm detecting a vessel, three hundred thousand kilometers and closing. The signature is Devore.
CHAKOTAY: Red alert. Shields up. Bridge to Captain.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: More company, Commander?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Looks like it.
JANEWAY: Get our visitors to the Cargo Bay. Stand by for transporter

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Suspension.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Neelix.
NEELIX: Right away. Come on now, we're going to go see your parents. Let's go.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: It's a scout ship. One pilot, no other crew.
PARIS: The vessel hasn't raised shields or charged weapons.
JANEWAY: If this is another inspection, it's certainly a different approach.
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
KASHYK (screen): Captain.
JANEWAY: Inspector.
KASHYK (screen): It's urgent that we speak.
JANEWAY: You know the way to my Ready room.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: It's all right, Ensign. I submitted to your previous inspections because you outgunned me, but I don't see of your warships nearby. I have no intention of cooperating.
KASHYK: I'm not here to search Voyager.
JANEWAY: Then what do you want, Inspector?
KASHYK: Call me Kashyk, please. I never liked that title. In fact, I've left it behind.
JANEWAY: Did somebody offer you a promotion, or are you just having a bad day?
KASHYK: I'm defecting, and I need your help.
JANEWAY: Me?
KASHYK: I've come to ask asylum. Safe passage out of Devore space before I end up in a detention center myself.
JANEWAY: Now, why would I risk the safety of my crew by harboring a defector?
KASHYK: Because of what I'm about to tell you. If you continue on your present course, you'll be intercepted by a squadron of my warships. Voyager will be seized, your crew imprisoned or worse. The nebula is a trap, Captain, to catch vessels smuggling telepaths.
JANEWAY: You've inspected my ship three times. You know we aren't smuggling telepaths or anyone else.
KASHYK: What I know is that you have twelve refugees aboard right now. That you rescued them from a freighter three weeks ago, and that you've been concealing them in Cargo Bay one using your transporters. I could have exposed them at any time, but I wanted them to escape as much as you do. I can still protect them, but only if you take me with you. My people know about the wormhole. It's only a matter of time before they find it. You have no choice, Captain. I'm your only hope.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: This is our rendezvous point, inside this nebula. Unfortunately the transport vessel we're supposed to meet is no longer there. Inspector.
TUVOK: A Devore warship.
JANEWAY: One of a dozen positioned throughout the nebula. All invisible to our sensors until Kashyk showed me how to compensate for their refractive shielding.
SEVEN: Your soldiers intercepted the transport ship?
KASHYK: Over a week ago. We were the ones who changed the rendezvous coordinates. Two vessels carrying refugees have already been seized. Voyager would have been next.
JANEWAY: All right Inspector, you helped us avoid this ambush. What now?
KASHYK: We'll have to get your passengers to the wormhole on our own. These are the schedules and routes of our patrols, along with tactical data on our shield and weapons configurations. Enough to ensure that you avoid another inspection.
JANEWAY: How long before you're missed?
KASHYK: Well, I took two weeks leave. Enough time, I hope, to find the wormhole and get your passengers safely through it and myself, as well.
TUVOK: Your data is useful, but it doesn't guarantee our success.
KASHYK: No, for that you'll need my guidance and some luck.
JANEWAY: I'll have to take this up with the Brenari. See what they think of their new benefactor. I'll let you know what they decide. I'll have to insist you remain under guard. No hard feelings.
KASHYK: No hard feelings.

[Brenari quarters]
KIR: It's unusual, but not unheard of. There have been sympathizers before. Kashyk may be telling the truth.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you should just read his thoughts.
KIR: Devore soldiers undergo years of mental training to prevent that.
TUVOK: He might be telling the truth, but he also might be using us to find the wormhole.
CHAKOTAY: So what do we do, throw him in the Brig?
JANEWAY: No, we take him up on his offer to help, see how it plays out. But I want round the clock security. We need to watch his every movement. That leaves us with our next question. How do we find the wormhole?
KIR: I've given it some thought. There's a scientist named Torat. He's from a nearby system. He's rumored to know more about the wormhole than anyone. He might help us, for a price.
JANEWAY: A price?
KIR: His species power their ships with a fluidic alloy that's difficult to find.
TUVOK: Perhaps we can replicate it.
KIR: I have some data on it's composition.
JANEWAY: See what you can do. In the meantime we'll set a course for Torat's planet, try to track him down.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Nervous?
KASHYK: Let's just say I'm not used to other people deciding my fate.
JANEWAY: Until today, you were part of a government responsible for persecuting thousands of innocent people. Why the sudden change of heart?
KASHYK: There's nothing sudden about it. I've been looking for a way to escape for years. Voyager was the perfect opportunity.
JANEWAY: How so?
KASHYK: Well, what are you suggesting? I ask a Brenari vessel for assistance? They'd throw me out an airlock. Besides, you're something of a humanitarian, Captain. I've read your database. I know all about Starfleet philosophy. Unless you left those ideals behind in the Alpha Quadrant?
JANEWAY: I certainly don't grant asylum to every person I meet. Especially ones who ransack my ship and terrorize my crew. You're asking me to believe you're someone else, and that's a leap of faith I'm not ready to make.
KASHYK: You're turning me away.
JANEWAY: No. No, I'm going to give you safe passage to the wormhole in return for your help in getting us there, but I'm also imposing some restrictions. You'll have your own quarters but limited access to Voyager's systems and your whereabouts will be monitored at all times.
KASHYK: I'm used to being surrounded by armed guards. Makes me feel secure.
JANEWAY: Only this time they answer to me. Consider them a reminder that Voyager is my ship.
KASHYK: I don't think anyone could doubt that.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. It's taken us nearly two days, but we've managed to locate Torat, the man who's supposedly an expert on wormholes. Unfortunately, he seems reluctant to share his expertise.

[Bridge]
PARIS: He's trying to evade us.
JANEWAY: Hail him again.
CHAKOTAY: Mister Torat doesn't seem too trusting. Maybe he's been through one inspection too many.
TUVOK: No response. He's deactivated his communication system.
KIM: I think I can tap into his computer, override the lockout.
JANEWAY: Do it.
TORAT (screen): Go away!
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. We have no hostile intent.
TORAT (screen): Then why are you pursing me?
JANEWAY: We'd just like to ask you
TORAT (screen): Federations, Imperiums. Why do you people feel such a need to align yourselves with monolithic organizations?
JANEWAY: I'd be glad to discuss that and any other philosophical issue you care to raise if you would just slow down and talk.
TORAT (screen): Sorry, can't do that. I'm late for a very important conference.
KASHYK: This is a waste of time. Disable his ship.
JANEWAY: That's what we call overkill, Inspector. Ensign, can we transport at this range?
KIM: Absolutely. Energizing.
JANEWAY: Welcome aboard. Your reputation precedes you.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Twenty centiliters of mercurium isochromate. No impurities, and this is just a sample. We've synthesized enough to power your ship for a year.
TORAT: It doesn't matter. I've never heard of this wormhole you're looking for, or these so-called refugees.
JANEWAY: Well, they've heard of you.
TORAT: Well, no doubt. My research is famous.
JANEWAY: Think of all the stars you could research once you've infused your propulsion system with this.
TORAT: There's no point in bribing me.
KASHYK: He's right. He couldn't help us if he wanted to.
TORAT: What do you mean by that?
KASHYK: I doubt you'd know a wormhole from a dark matter inversion.
JANEWAY: Professor Kashyk is another expert I've retained to help us with this matter. I'm afraid he's not as impressed with your work as I am. In fact, he discouraged me from seeking you out.
TORAT: Professor Kashyk? Never heard of you.
KASHYK: Not surprising, considering you toil in scientific obscurity.
TORAT: Obscurity! I've discovered over sixty astronomical phenomena!
KASHYK: Not worth the sensors they were recorded on.
JANEWAY: There's no need to insult the man. Just because he doesn't know how to find an interspatial flexure.
TORAT: Interspatial flexure? Why didn't you say so in the first place? He said wormhole, a layman's term that that covers any number of phenomena. I am familiar with a certain anomaly that could be categorized as an interspatial flexure.
KASHYK: Where is it?
TORAT: Actually, a better question would be, where is it now? It's really quite interesting. The aperture of the phenomenon, which I prefer to call an intermittent cyclical vortex, is unfixed. It manifests infrequently for only brief periods of time and in varying locations. I can give you the last four locations. Perhaps you can extrapolate the next one, if you're as accomplished a scientist as you claim to be.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Think.
KASHYK: I'm thinking.
JANEWAY: Think harder. Four wormhole appearances less than twenty light years apart. There's no pattern.
KASHYK: Did you apply a fractal coefficient?
JANEWAY: Didn't work.
KASHYK: Neutrino flux parameters? Statistical algorithms?
JANEWAY: Every one I could find. This wormhole defies analysis. Maybe Torat was right. We're just out of our league.
KASHYK: It's not like you to give up. Think harder.
JANEWAY: How do you predict a random occurrence?
KASHYK: You follow your instincts. Captain?
JANEWAY: Counterpoint. It's in all great music. Parallel melodies playing against one another. We've been looking at the obvious, frequency, location, timing, but each of those parameters could have a counterpoint in subspace.
KASHYK: If we could run an algorithm based on subspace harmonics, it might reveal our pattern.
JANEWAY: Computer, run a subspatial transkinetic analysis on the wormhole data.
COMPUTER: Analysis in progress.
JANEWAY: This'll take a minute.
KASHYK: I'm going to miss this coffee of yours.
JANEWAY: Well, I will give you the recipe.
KASHYK: Thank you.
JANEWAY: You don't sound too happy about leaving.
KASHYK: The Brenari aren't about to embrace a former Inspector. I'll be feared, hated for what I represent.
JANEWAY: Anxiety doesn't become you, Inspector. Try to relax a little.
KASHYK: I suppose you liked me better in uniform.
JANEWAY: I haven't decided whether I like you at all.
KASHYK: We call them the Kolyan Kolyar. Infinite Spirals.
JANEWAY: Beautiful.
KASHYK: As a boy, I spent years gazing at these lights. This is the last time I'll ever see them.
JANEWAY: We have something similar back on Earth. The Aurora Borealis.
KASHYK: Which you too may never see again. I suppose we're both refugees, in a way.
JANEWAY: I'm still counting on getting this ship home.
KASHYK: Are you sure you'll be welcome when you do? I came across something else in your database. The Prime Directive.
JANEWAY: The Federation's cardinal protocol.
KASHYK: It seems you violated it when you rescued these telepaths.
JANEWAY: Well, let's just say I usually go with my instincts and sort it out later at the Board of Inquiry. Those Admirals and I were on a first name basis, you know. You're risking a lot, too. Why?
KASHYK: Three months ago my teams were inspecting a plasma refining vessel. We found a family of telepaths hiding in one of the extraction tanks. There was a child, very young. She'd been inside it for days, barely able to breathe. When I lifted her out and set her down on the deck, she thanked me. I sent her to a relocation center with the others, knowing full well what would happen to her. After that, I could think of nothing else, and when I couldn't stand it any longer. You're my deliverance, Captain.
COMPUTER: Analysis complete.
JANEWAY: It worked. It looks like it'll appear in about three days, less than eight light years from here.
KASHYK: The Tehara system.
JANEWAY: Is that a problem?
KASHYK: There's an automated sensor array between here and Tehara.
JANEWAY: Can we go around it?
KASHYK: We'd never make it in time. We'll have to find a way to avoid detection.
JANEWAY: Let's do it in the morning. We've done enough for tonight. Are you saying goodbye? There will be other spirals.
KASHYK: They've just never looked quite so beautiful before. Could be the company I'm keeping.
JANEWAY: Or the polarization axis of the windows.
KASHYK: That must be it.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: How often does this array emit a scanning pulse?
KASHYK: Every forty seconds.
JANEWAY: Range?
KASHYK: Ten light years. The pulse is designed to track warp fields and impulse signatures. If we lower our power output to beneath it's detection threshold
JANEWAY: We could drift past undetected.
KASHYK: It's worth a try.
JANEWAY: Well, good night.
KASHYK: Captain, why don't you join me? I've been looking forward to trying your replicator. Well, I'm sure that I can come up with something to toast the evening. We've accomplished quite a bit today.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid that won't be possible. I had your replicator taken offline.
KASHYK: In case I decided to replicate a weapon.
JANEWAY: A safety precaution. You understand.
KASHYK: Better than anyone.
JANEWAY: Sleep well.
KASHYK: And you.
JANEWAY: As you were.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Fifteen seconds.
KASHYK: Our power output is below the detection threshold.
TUVOK: Ten seconds. Five, four, three, two.
KASHYK: We weren't detected.
PARIS: Ten minutes and we'll be out of range.
TORRES (voiceover): Engineering to bridge, we've got a problem.

[Engineering]
TORRES: That pulse triggered a variance in the antimatter stream. It's not much, but it'll light us up like a beacon when the next pulse hits.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Options.
TORRES: I can't correct it in time, so that leaves shutting down the core.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: The array has released another pulse.
JANEWAY: Time.
TUVOK: Twenty eight seconds.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Get down to the plasma injectors. Grab a tricorder and monitor the antimatter flow.
VORIK: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Twenty seconds.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna.
TORRES (voiceover): Almost

[Engineering]
TORRES: There, Captain. I'm having a problem with the injectors.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Fifteen seconds. Ten seconds. Four, three two.
KASHYK: We've been detected. The array's transmitting an alert.
JANEWAY: Can we block it?
TUVOK: Negative.
JANEWAY: Stand down gray mode. B'Elanna, fire up the core. We're getting out of here.
KASHYK: Warships will be on their way, but we can still reach the wormhole.
JANEWAY: If we can find it. Tom, how long to the Tehara system?
PARIS: Eleven hours at maximum warp.
KIM: Engines are back online.
JANEWAY: Engage.

[Briefing room]
SEVEN: Using the model you developed, we were able to narrow down the location of the wormhole's next appearance to a radius of two hundred thousand kilometers.
KIR: We can't determine its exact position until we reach the system, but we know it will open in roughly six hours.
SEVEN: It will remain open for two minutes at most.
TUVOK: I've devised a new shield modulation which should protect us against their weapons.
KASHYK: You're not planning to fight your way to the wormhole?
JANEWAY: If I have to.
PARIS (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
PARIS (voiceover): Long range sensors have picked up two Devore warships heading right for us.
TUVOK: Time to intercept.
PARIS (voiceover): Six hours.
JANEWAY: Take the bridge. I'll be in Engineering. Kashyk.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: First we'll check those shield modifications, then we'll see if we can adjust our phasers to penetrate the Devore shields. If torpedoes don't work I want an alternative.
KASHYK: Captain, we have to talk. But not here.

[Janeway's quarters]
KASHYK: I'm going back, to rejoin the warships. It's the only way I can guarantee your safety.
JANEWAY: Kashyk.
KASHYK: I'm still a ranking officer. I can take command of the inspection teams, make sure the refugees aren't discovered.
JANEWAY: You said yourself they're suspicious. Return now and you risk being caught.
KASHYK: I can keep them off track long enough to get you through that wormhole.
JANEWAY: It's too dangerous.
KASHYK: Kathryn.
JANEWAY: You asked for safe passage and I agreed, under the condition that you follow my orders.
KASHYK: You may stand a chance against one of our warships, but not against two. If I stay your best chance of escape will be lost.
JANEWAY: I could confine you to quarters. I was planning on asking you to stay with us once we got through the wormhole. I wouldn't mind having someone around who appreciates a bit of Tchaikovsky now and then.
KASHYK: Generous but, something tells me I wouldn't fit in any better on Voyager.
JANEWAY: Well, you wouldn't be the first wayward soul we've folded into our ranks. Your shuttle will be ready for launch within the hour.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: Our course will put us just outside the Teharan system by the time the warships arrive.
JANEWAY: Your inspection teams have to be off Voyager before that wormhole opens.
KASHYK: Believe me, it will be the quickest inspection on record.
TUVOK: I'll be on the bridge. Your efforts have been greatly appreciated.
KASHYK: My pleasure.
TUVOK: Live long and prosper.
KASHYK: Thank you.

[Shuttle bay]
KASHYK: Begin pre-ignition sequence.
JANEWAY: I've made one adjustment to your plan. After the inspection, we're going to wait at the wormhole for as long as we can. Until it begins to collapse.
KASHYK: I may not be able to join you this time.
JANEWAY: Try.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: They're assuming a tactical formation. Shields?
JANEWAY: No. We follow protocol. Bridge to transporter room.

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Status?
KIM: Ready, Captain. Pattern cohesion stable.

[Cargo Bay one]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Cargo bay one?
SEVEN: Clear.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: They're hailing.
JANEWAY: On screen.
PRAX (screen): Gaharay vessel, prepare to be
JANEWAY: We've been through three inspections. Please explain why another is necessary.
PRAX (screen): Crew members are instructed to step away from their stations. Side arms and scanning equipment are to be set aside. Deviation from this or any other inspection protocols will not be tolerated.
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Prepare to be boarded by Devore inspections teams. Give them your usual warm welcome.
CHAKOTAY: Devore soldiers have materialized on decks fifteen, twelve, eight, four.
JANEWAY: And one.
KASHYK: Captain Janeway, report to your Ready room.

[Ready room]
KASHYK: Captain. Good to see you again.
JANEWAY: Likewise.
KASHYK: Tchaikovsky. Of all the selections in your database, this remains my favorite.
JANEWAY: Mine, too.
KASHYK: I'm afraid Prax isn't impressed. He's solely concerned with his work, aren't you, Prax?
PRAX: As you say, sir.
KASHYK: Yes, he's curious why you entered this sector. You're aware it's restricted.
JANEWAY: We were planning to study a supernova remnant not far from here.
KASHYK: You strayed a full light year from your course in order to observe an astronomical phenomenon?
JANEWAY: We're explorers.
KASHYK: Yes, I remember. I also remember warning you about going where you don't belong.
JANEWAY: Exploring can sometimes be hard to resist, Inspector.
KASHYK: Well, it's a romantic notion, Captain, but one I can't allow you to indulge. I'm afraid I'll have to ask you to leave our space immediately. Prax, why don't you check on our teams while I reiterate our protocols for Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Do they suspect anything?
KASHYK: Not yet, but our warships have been monitoring Voyager's movements for the past few days, and mine as well. I don't think we have much time. The Brenari?
JANEWAY: They're in transporter suspension.
KASHYK: And the wormhole?
JANEWAY: We've found it. It's twenty thousand kilometers off our port bow. We've determined that a photon torpedo properly calibrated will force open the threshold long enough for Voyager to get through.
KASHYK: Congratulations, Captain. For a while, I wasn't sure if even you could find it. Prax!
KASHYK: Go to Cargo Bay one. You'll find the transporter patterns for more than a dozen telepaths. Rematerialize them.
PRAX: Yes, sir.
JANEWAY: Impressive. You gave a masterful performance.
KASHYK: I'm the one who's impressed, with your selflessness, your humanity. It made all this so much easier.
JANEWAY: Oh, but what about your selflessness? That touching story about the little girl. Was that a fabrication, too?
KASHYK: Oh, that incident was real. What I didn't tell you was that after wrestling with my ethics, I realized that I'd done the right thing in order to protect my people from a very real threat. Please. I insist.

[Bridge]
KASHYK: Captain.
KASHYK: Access their forward sensor array. You should find neutrino emissions at roughly twenty thousand kilometers off the port bow. On screen. Target two photon torpedoes. When the first one detonates, the wormhole will open. Use the second one to destabilize its subspace matrix. That will destroy it. Prax, report!

[Cargo Bay one]
PRAX: I've isolated the bio-patterns.

[Bridge]
KASHYK: Fire! It should have detonated. Those aren't neutrino emissions, they're antimatter residue signatures. There's no wormhole here. You created false readings.
JANEWAY: That is the theme for this evening, isn't it?
KASHYK: Prax, do you have the telepaths?

[Cargo Bay one]
PRAX: I have cargo containers.
PRAX: Filled with vegetables.

[Bridge]
KASHYK: Return to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Computer, change music selection. Mahler's Symphony Number One, Second Movement. Maybe this will help you relax.
DEVORE (voiceover): Inspector, we have completed our inventory of the vessel. Two of their shuttlecraft are missing.
KASHYK: They couldn't have gone far. Why didn't they appear on our long range scans? Of course! Adjust their scanners to compensate for refractive shielding.
JANEWAY: Well, you gave us the specifications. Seemed a shame to waste them.
DEVORE (voiceover): We've located the two shuttlecraft. Range, twenty million kilometers.
KASHYK: Order our ships to pursue. Maximum speed!

[Shuttlecraft]
KIR: We're approaching the coordinates. I'm firing the torpedo.
WOMAN: Kir, we're safe.

[Bridge]
PRAX: The shuttles have disappeared from sensors. We've scanned for a wormhole. If there was one, it's gone. I'll order Janeway and her crew removed. We'll confiscate the vessel, deliver them to the nearest detention center.
KASHYK: You're dismissed.
PRAX: Imperative twelve, codicil six requires
KASHYK: To hell with protocol, Prax! Do you think either of us will benefit from having this failure on our records? As far as you're concerned, this incident never occurred. Make sure your teams share that understanding.
KASHYK: Well played, Captain. It seems I never did earn your trust.
JANEWAY: I had to take a few precautions. You understand.
KASHYK: Better than anyone.
JANEWAY: I never lied to you. My offer to take you with us was genuine, and it would still stand if you'd kept your part of the bargain.
KASHYK: For what it's worth, you made a tempting offer. The bridge is yours.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Turn ninety degrees to the left, please. Turn ninety degrees to the left, please. Turn ninety degrees to the right, please. About face. Try to hold still, please.
NAOMI: Is it going to hurt?
EMH: Of course not. A few photons never hurt anybody.
NAOMI: We didn't do this last year.
EMH: That's because last year I didn't realize what an exciting tool my holo-imager could be in the pursuit of medical knowledge.
NAOMI: Is something wrong with me?
EMH: Your health is excellent. This is just another way to make sure that it stays excellent.
NAOMI: Does my mother have to do this?
EMH: Your mother and everybody else on board. I made it part of the annual check-up. It's quite handy, really. By attuning the resonance spectrum along the subspace band I can take an image of my patients all the way down to the subatomic level.
NAOMI: Subatomic level? I thought you said this wasn't going to hurt.
EMH: I did, and it won't.
EMH: There. See? Nothing to it.
NAOMI: Try to hold still, please.
EMH: Are you making fun of me?
NAOMI: No.
EMH: It'll only take a second to download your images into the medical database, if you'd like to stay for a moment and see what you look like from the inside out.
KIM: Why not?
EMH: Here we go.
KIM: Handsome fellow.
EMH: There's some scar tissue along the base of your lower skull. Computer, isolate the occipital plexus, magnification five hundred. There. Scarring along the dura mater.
KIM: From what?
EMH: An operation. Computer, isolate the cranial meninges, magnification one hundred. More scarring. No doubt about it. Somebody performed neurosurgery. And that somebody was me.These microlinear incisions are a dead giveaway. I developed that procedure myself.
KIM: I don't understand. I don't remember having an operation.
EMH: I'm a little confused as well, because I don't remember performing it.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Who is it?
EMH (voiceover): The Doctor.
JANEWAY: Come in.
EMH: I've finished giving the crew their annual physicals, but as usual the Captain was a no-show.
JANEWAY: Let's get it over with.
EMH: Specific complaints?
JANEWAY: None. How's the crew?
EMH: In good health, for the most part. I found a nascent alien retrovirus bouncing between personnel on decks ten and eleven, but managed to nip it in the bud. And there's been a little more wear and tear on Seven of Nine's cranial infrastructure. I'm going to double her maintenance routine. Cytometabolism is normal. Endocrine functions functioning.
JANEWAY: That's a relief.
EMH: I'd like you to drop by Sickbay at your earliest convenience. I've adjusted my holo-imager for deep body scans. You're the only member of the crew who hasn't posed for me yet.
JANEWAY: Maybe next week.
EMH: It's a fine instrument, really. I've already discovered something of a mystery with it. Apparently, I performed a complex neurosurgery on Harry Kim. According to the isotope decay around the scars, it was eighteen months ago.
JANEWAY: I don't remember that.
EMH: Neither do I, and neither does the patient. I checked my medical entries for that period. There's no mention of surgery.
JANEWAY: Could your holo-imager have misinterpreted the scans?
EMH: Possibly. The computer is double-checking the data now. I'd also like to run a complete diagnostic on my own program and have a look at my memory files.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna and Harry are both busy with the plasma relay repairs. Let's make sure you're next up on the list. Thank you, Doctor.

[Astrometrics lab]
EMH: Hello, Seven.
SEVEN: Doctor.
EMH: I'm here to ask you a favor.
SEVEN: Another time.
EMH: I beg your pardon? SEVEN I am recalibrating the deflector dish. Come back tomorrow. I should be finished by then.
EMH: Looks like I'm two for two. Oh, the Captain's acting like she's allergic to me, and now my prized pupil won't even give me the time of day.
SEVEN: State your request.
EMH: A little mystery has cropped up. Evidence that I performed surgery on Ensign Kim a year and a half ago, before you came aboard. The trouble is, I don't remember it. I wanted you to help me run a self-diagnostic.
SEVEN: I will assist you, in one hour.
EMH: Fair enough.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: Computer, locate the Emergency Medical Hologram.
COMPUTER: The EMH is inactive.
SEVEN: Activate him.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
SEVEN: I'm here to assist you, as I agreed. I've run a preliminary diagnostic of your program. Your suspicions were correct.
EMH: I never asked you to run a diagnostic. Suspicions? What are you talking about?
SEVEN: You don't recall speaking to me in the Astrometrics lab one hour ago.
EMH: No. The last I remember, I was completing the yearly physicals.
SEVEN: You mentioned a neurosurgery you performed on Ensign Kim eighteen months ago.
EMH: Computer, locate the holoscans I took of Ensign Kim this morning. Any operation would show
COMPUTER: Unavailable. That file has been deleted.
EMH: Let's have a look at my program.
SEVEN: A deletion in your short term memory buffer.
EMH: Our chat in Astrometrics never got filed. That's why I can't remember it. If I were given to paranoia, I'd say someone is trying to keep me from finding out what happened eighteen months ago. My photo album.
SEVEN: Doctor?
EMH: I was quite a shutterbug back then. Not a day went by when I didn't record an image for posterity. Let's have a walk down memory lane. Meet me on holodeck two.

[Holodeck two]
EMH: Computer, display all holo-images taken on Stardate 50979
COMPUTER: Those holo-images have been deleted.
EMH: Deleted? By whom?
COMPUTER: Unknown.
SEVEN: I'm detecting residual photons in the holo-buffer. It may be possible to partially reconstruct the images.
EMH: Try.
SEVEN: I've restored five images. They are degraded but intact.
EMH: Let's see them.
EMH: The mess hall.
SEVEN: Do you remember this?
EMH: No. Who is that? The Ensign. It seems to be her birthday.
SEVEN: I've never seen her before.
EMH: The Ensign again. I never went on a shuttle mission with Harry Kim, and certainly not with her. And again.

[Computer control room]
SEVEN: I've isolated your memory files from stardate 50979.
EMH: They weren't deleted?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: Then why can't I remember them?
SEVEN: The program was rewritten to deny you access to those memories. I'm trying to restore them.

[Memory - Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Hear, hear.
ALL: Hear, hear.
EMH: Say cheese.
ALL: Cheese.

[Computer control room]
SEVEN: What happened?
EMH: I was in the mess hall.
SEVEN: The files are difficult to localize. The memories will be out of sequence.

[Memory - shuttlecraft]
KIM: What was that?
JETAL: Our sensors are dead.

[Memory - Mess hall]
KIM: Make a wish.

[Holodeck lab]
EMH: They've stopped.
SEVEN: One moment.

[Memory - Mess hall]
JETAL: I'm going to kill you.
EMH: Ensign, I haven't seen you in months.
JETAL: Price I pay for staying in good health, I guess.

[Memory - Sickbay]
PARIS: Acetylcholine, twenty five microliters. It's not helping. I'm getting massive synaptic failure.
EMH: That doesn't make any sense.

[Memory - shuttlecraft]
KIM: This is the last one.
EMH: Say cheese.
ALL: Cheese.

[Computer control room]
EMH: Call the Captain.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: I don't recognize this species. Seven?
SEVEN: They are unknown to the Borg.
TUVOK: Perhaps these images have been manipulated.
EMH: No, they're real. The image buffer would have shown signs of tampering. I have a different theory. I believe there was an attack on Voyager by this species and all our memories of the event were erased. This is the unknown crewman I told you about. Ensign Jetal. The question is, who was she? An alien intruder posing as a Starfleet Ensign? Of course, it's impossible to tell from a photograph, but one thing is certain. We are in immediate danger.
TUVOK: How so?
EMH: Only a few hours ago, as I was beginning this investigation, someone shut down my program and eliminated all my memories of the last twenty four hours.
SEVEN: An intruder may be on board.
JANEWAY: Run a deck by deck security sweep.
TUVOK: Understood.
JANEWAY: Report to the Astrometrics lab and recalibrate the sensors. See if you can detect any cloaked vessels nearby.
EMH: I'll review the medical records of the crew. Ensign Kim may not have been the only one who was injured during the attack.
JANEWAY: No, I want you to deactivate yourself for now. We'll erect a security field around the main computer and encrypt all pathways leading to your program. If someone does try to tamper with you again, I want to be ready.
EMH: Captain.
JANEWAY: It's for your own safety, Doctor. Thank you for bringing this to my attention.
EMH: You will keep me informed?
JANEWAY: Absolutely. Dismissed.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Computer, transfer my program from the mobile emitter to the Sickbay systems.
COMPUTER: Transfer complete.
EMH: Computer, duplicate all of my memory files recorded within the last forty eight hours.

[Sickbay]
COMPUTER: Duplication complete.
EMH: Now, I'm going offline. If my program is altered without my authorisation, reactivate me and restore the duplicate memory files. Interface with the holo-imaging device. If anybody enters this room, commence imaging in five second intervals.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.
EMH: Computer, deactivate EMH.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency. Hello?
COMPUTER: Restoring memory files. Restoration complete.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Believe me, I was there.
CHAKOTAY: So was I.
TUVOK: Commander Chakotay is correct.
JANEWAY: Oh? And how would you know?
TUVOK: In my youth, I studied many forms of martial art, including the Sumo of Earth. I have followed the sport ever since.
JANEWAY: It was the 77th Emperor's Cup. Takashi forced Kar-pek out of the circle in less than three seconds. I had a fifth row seat.
CHAKOTAY: Then you must have been ordering sake, because Takashi's knee broke the sand and the referee gave the match to Kar-pek.
TUVOK: Exactly.
JANEWAY: If this is another house call, it'll have to wait. As you can see, I've got a mutiny on my hands.
EMH: A mutiny? I suppose that's better than a conspiracy.
SEVEN: Doctor?
EMH: Tell her, Captain. Describe how you tampered with my program. How it was you all along.
TUVOK: Perhaps you should accompany me to Sickbay, Doctor.
EMH: Et tu, Tuvok? You're conspiring against me, all of you. Why?
JANEWAY: In my ready room.

[Ready room]
EMH: You've been manipulating my program. Don't deny it.
JANEWAY: I don't intend to.
EMH: But, the alien ship, the intruder? Did that attack actually happen?
JANEWAY: Yes. You were damaged during the incident.
EMH: Damaged?
JANEWAY: It caused a conflict in your programming that couldn't be resolved.
EMH: What kind of conflict?
JANEWAY: I had no choice but to deny you access to your memories of those events.
EMH: What kind of conflict?
JANEWAY: If I told you that, I might set the whole thing in motion again.
EMH: This conflict in my programming.
JANEWAY: Yes.
EMH: That's not good enough.
JANEWAY: It'll have to be.
EMH: Captain!
JANEWAY: I've made a command decision for your own benefit and the welfare of this entire crew. I'm not willing to debate it.
EMH: How would you like it if I operated on you without your consent or without your knowledge?
JANEWAY: If the operation saved my life? I could live with it.
EMH: I don't believe you. You'd feel as violated as I do right now.
JANEWAY: Whether you believe me or not is beside the point. A year and a half ago the only solution was to rewrite your program. I have to perform that same procedure now.
EMH: That isn't fair.
JANEWAY: You're malfunctioning, and you need to be repaired. Return to Sickbay and wait for my orders.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: Doctor.
EMH: What's happening? What are you doing?
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres requires a copy of your most recent memory files, including the backups.
EMH: You're going to rewrite my program.
CHAKOTAY: The Captain thinks it's for the best. I'm sorry. B'Elanna and Seven are setting up the procedure right now. In the meantime, you're to brief Mister Paris about any experiments you're performing, any tests.
PARIS: I'll be filling in while your program's offline.
PARIS: Okay, so, you're running some kind of cell analysis?
EMH: Yes.
PARIS: Well, lets take a look.
EMH: What happened eighteen months ago?
PARIS: Doc.
EMH: Why won't the Captain tell me?
PARIS: She has her reasons.
EMH: And you agree with her.
PARIS: I was there and yes, I agree with her.

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Come in. Are you having a little trouble regenerating?
SEVEN: My alcove is functioning properly. I am having trouble with the nature of individuality.
JANEWAY: There's a time and a place for philosophical discussion. Two in the morning in my quarters isn't one of them. But I'll tell you what. Meet me in the mess hall tomorrow.
SEVEN: Tomorrow will be too late. We'll have already rewritten the Doctor's program by then.
JANEWAY: And violated his rights as an individual.
SEVEN: Precisely.
JANEWAY: If you've come to act as my conscience, you're a little late. I considered these issues eighteen months ago, as I did again this morning. I came to the same conclusion.
SEVEN: Your conclusion is wrong.
JANEWAY: Coffee, black. Lukewarm. Now I've told that replicator a dozen times about the temperature of my coffee. It just doesn't seem to want to listen. Almost as if it's got a mind of its own. But it doesn't. A replicator operates through a series of electronic pathways that allow it to receive instructions and take appropriate action, and there you go. A cup of coffee, a bowl of soup, a plasma conduit, whatever we tell it to do. As difficult as it is to accept, the Doctor is more like that replicator than he is like us.
SEVEN: He would disagree.
JANEWAY: I'm sure he would, but I can't let that change my decision. I learned that the hard way when his program almost self-destructed. I won't take that risk again.
SEVEN: The risk isn't yours to take.
JANEWAY: If one of my crew chose to put a phaser to his own head, should I let him?
SEVEN: It would depend on the situation.
JANEWAY: It always depends on the situation, Seven, but we can debate philosophy another time.
SEVEN: When you separated me from the Collective, I was an unknown risk to your crew, yet you kept me on board. You allowed me to evolve into an individual.
JANEWAY: You're a human being. He's a hologram.
SEVEN: And you allowed that hologram to evolve as well, to exceed his original programming. And yet now you choose to abandon him.
JANEWAY: Objection noted. Good night.
SEVEN: It is unsettling. You say that I am a human being and yet I am also Borg. Part of me not unlike your replicator. Not unlike the Doctor. Will you one day choose to abandon me as well? I have always looked to you as my example, my guide to humanity. Perhaps I've been mistaken. Good night.

[Medical lab]
JANEWAY: I'd like to think I made my decision eighteen months ago for all the right reasons. The truth is, my own biases about what you are had just as much to do with it. At the very least, you deserve to know exactly what happened. If you're willing.
EMH: I'm ready.

[Memories - Mess hall]
PARIS: You're standing on my foot.
EMH: I am not.
TORRES: Shush.
NEELIX: If you ask me, they should have just locked the turbolift and thrown away.
JETAL: Neelix, the power's down. Jetal to Torres.
TORRES: Er, go ahead, Ensign. Or should I say.
ALL: Surprise!
JETAL: I'm going to kill you.
CHAKOTAY: I want you to go along on a few of the shuttle surveys. If I can talk you into it.
EMH: Another away mission? Certainly! I'm flattered.
KIM: I guess the birthday girl and I get the pleasure of your company, Doc.
CHAKOTAY: You launch at nineteen hundred hours, shuttlebay one.
JETAL: Hello, Doctor.
EMH: Ensign Jetal. I haven't seen you in months.
JETAL: The price I pay for staying in good health.
EMH: So, keeping busy down on deck eleven?
JETAL: Too busy. We're modifying one of the shuttles, making it more maneuverable and more cool.
EMH: I see you've been working with Mister Paris. My condolences.

[Memories - Shuttlecraft]
KIM: I thought I picked up a slight distortion in subspace, but it's not there any more.
JETAL: Nothing on long range sensors but a few hydrogen atoms.
KIM: Candid shot?
EMH: Try to look natural.
JETAL: Oh, at least it's my good side.
EMH: Let's get one of the group.
KIM: This is the last one.
EMH: Say cheese.
BOTH: Cheese.
JETAL: Doctor, I have a shuttle to fly.
EMH: Ah, yes.
KIM: What was that?
JETAL: Our sensors are dead.
KIM: Power's being drained. Shields and weapons are offline.
EMH: How?
EMH: Doctor to Voyager, mayday. We're under attack. I've got wounded. Mayday!
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Acknowledged, Doctor. Set navigational controls to return to Voyager.
EMH: Commander, can you hear me?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Doctor, please respond.
EMH: Hello? Computer, engage autonavigation. Lay in a course for Voyager, full impulse.
KIM: Doctor.
EMH: Stay calm. That weapon carried quite a punch.
KIM: Is she okay?
EMH: She's unconscious.
KIM: Voyager?
EMH: We've lost contact. I sent that alien back to his ship. You think they'd be grateful.
KIM: You should have beamed him into space.
EMH: I'm not in the business of killing people, Ensign. Synaptic shock? But there was no neural damage. Mister Kim! I don't understand. No.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Doctor, stand by for transport.
EMH: Beam us directly to Sickbay.

[Memories - Sickbay]
EMH: Prepare these people for surgery.
PARIS: Here. What happened?
EMH: We were fired on. There's something wrong with their nervous systems. We've got to stabilize their synapses. Get me a choline compound.
PARIS: Which choline compound?
EMH: It doesn't matter. Just make sure it's a pure base. Her spinal cord's deteriorating. Same rate of collapse.
PARIS: Acetylcholine, twenty five microliters. It's not helping. I'm reading massive synaptic failure.
EMH: This doesn't make any sense.
PARIS: Paris to Engineering. Transfer all available power to Sickbay.
TORRES (voiceover): Acknowledged.
EMH: Some kind of plasmic energy is arcing between their neural membranes. That weapon, it was designed to do this.
PARIS: To leave a residual charge in the victim's body?
EMH: An energy pulse that remains in the neural membranes, working its way up the spinal cord to the brain. They'll be dead in minutes if we don't find a way to stop it. I've got to protect their brain functions.
PARIS: His neocortex is failing.
EMH: A spinal shunt. I'll isolate the spinal cord from the brain stem until I can repair the cellular damage. But I don't have time to perform the procedure on both of them.
PARIS: Then talk me through it. We'll do them together.
EMH: It's too complex.
PARIS: Then make a choice, before we lose them both!
EMH: Subdermal scalpel. Bio-electric field generator.
PARIS: His vital signs are stabilizing. It's working.
EMH: Cellular regenerator. His neural membranes are re-establishing themselves. Good.

[Computer Control room]
EMH: The attack, how did it end? Were there more casualties?
JANEWAY: We exchanged fire for another few minutes, then the aliens withdrew. There was only one casualty. Ensign Jetal.
EMH: I don't mean to seem unfeeling, but I'm programmed to accept the loss of a patient with professional detachment.

[Memories - Bridge]
JANEWAY: We are assembled here today to pay final respects to our honored dead, Ensign Ahni Jetal. Her intelligence and her charm have made our long journey home seem not quite so long. As she continues on a journey of her own, we will keep her in our hearts and in our memories.

[Memories - Mess hall]
EMH: We're low on synthetic antigens, and I'm sorry to report many of the medicinal plants you've collected over the past several months were destroyed as well.
NEELIX: I have some herbs in storage you might be able to use.
EMH: Been holding out on me?
NEELIX: No, I was keeping them around just in case.
EMH: Good planning.
NEELIX: As for the antigens, I'll have to start replicating them in batches. Which do you want first?
EMH: Decisions, decisions. How do you make a decision, Mister Neelix? In general, I mean.
NEELIX: I guess I weigh the alternatives and try to decide which is best.
EMH: Which is best. How do you determine that?
NEELIX: I never thought about it, really.
EMH: Well, maybe you should. Think about it, I mean.
NEELIX: I guess every situation is a little different.
EMH: For me, it's rather simple. While I'm faced with a decision, my program calculates the variables, and I take action. For example, what could be simpler than a triage situation in Sickbay? Two patients, for example, both injured, for example, both in imminent danger of dying. Calculate the variables. My program needs to ascertain which patient has the greater chance of survival, and that's the one I treat.
EMH: Simple. But, what if they have an equal chance of survival? What then? Hmm? Flip a coin? Pick a card?
NEELIX: Doctor.
EMH: Oh, I'm all right. I'm a hologram. I don't get injured, I don't feel pain, I don't die. Unlike some people I could tell you about. For example, two patients. Both injured, both in imminent danger of. Don't touch me! I'm a hologram. Photonic energy. Don't waste your time.
NEELIX: Neelix to Security. Send a team to the Mess hall, please.
EMH: A whole team, Mister Neelix? Throwing a little party, are we? Why, I attended a party just recently. A birthday party for a very nice young woman. I made a decision there, too. Several of them, in fact. When I came through the door, do I turn right or do I turn left? As I recall, I decided on the latter. Then, what should I see before me but the hors d'oeuvre tray, and another decision. Do I take a canapé or refuse? Oh, that's an easy one. I'm a hologram. I don't eat.
NEELIX: Something's wrong with him.
EMH: Don't you know it's rude to refer to somebody in the third person. You had a choice, Mister Neelix. Should I do something rude or not do something rude?
TUVOK: Doctor, we must return to Sickbay.
EMH: Why should I? What if I don't want to return to Sickbay? What if I decide not to return to Sickbay? No, I don't choose this. Leave me alone! Let me go! Why did she have to die? Why did I kill her? Why did I decide to kill her? Why? Somebody tell me why!

[Computer control room]
JANEWAY: It was downhill from there. You developed a feedback loop between your ethical and cognitive subroutines. You were having the same thoughts over and over again. We couldn't stop it.
TORRES: Our only option was to erase your memories of those events.
EMH: You were right. I didn't deserve to keep those memories, not after what I did.
JANEWAY: You were performing your duty.
EMH: Two patients, which do I kill?
JANEWAY: Doctor.
EMH: Doctor? Hardly! A doctor retains his objectivity. I didn't do that, did I? Two patients, equal chances of survival and I chose the one I was closer to? I chose my friend? That's not in my programming! That's not what I was designed to do! Go ahead! Reprogram me! I'll lend you a hand! Let's start with this very day, this hour, this second!
JANEWAY: Computer, deactivate the EMH.
TORRES: Here we go again. Captain?
JANEWAY: It's as though there's a battle being fought inside him, between his original programming and what he's become. Our solution was to end that battle. What if we were wrong?
TORRES: We've seen what happens to him. In fact, we've seen it twice.
JANEWAY: Still, we allowed him to evolve, and at the first sign of trouble? We gave him a soul, B'Elanna. Do we have the right to take it away now?
TORRES: We gave him personality subroutines. I'd hardly call that a soul.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm having trouble with the nature of individuality.
SEVEN: You require a philosophical discussion?
JANEWAY: There's a time and a place for it. This is one of them. After I freed you from the Collective, you were transformed. It's been a difficult process. Was it worth it?
SEVEN: I had no choice.
SEVEN: If I could change what happened, erase what you did to me, would I? No. Captain's log, supplemental. Our Doctor is now our patient. It's been two weeks since I've ordered a round the clock vigil. A crew member has stayed with him at all times, offering a sounding board and a familiar presence while he struggles to understand his memories and thoughts. The chance of recovery? Uncertain.

[Holodeck]
EMH: The more I think about it, the more I realize there's nothing I could've done differently.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
EMH: The primordial atom burst, sending out its radiation, setting everything in motion. One particle collides with another, gasses expand, planets contract, and before you know it we've got starships and holodecks and chicken soup. In fact, you can't help but have starships and holodecks and chicken soup, because it was all determined twenty billion years ago!
TUVOK: There is a certain logic to your logic. Progress?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure if he's making any sense of this experience, or if his program's just running in circles.
TUVOK: You've been here for sixteen hours. Let me continue while you rest.
JANEWAY: I'll be all right. Go back to the bridge.
EMH: How can you read at a time like this?
JANEWAY: It helps me think.
EMH: Think? What do you need to think about?
JANEWAY: You. This book is relevant to your situation.
EMH: Oh? What is it?
JANEWAY: Poetry, written on Earth a thousand years ago. La Vita Nuova.
EMH: La Vita Nuova. The New Life? Ha! Tell that to Ensign Jetal. Actually, I killed her countless times.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
EMH: Causality, probability. For every action, there's an infinite number of reactions and in each one of them, I killed her. Or did I? Too many possibilities. Too many pathways for my program to follow. Impossible to choose. Still, I can't live with the knowledge of what I've done. I can't.
EMH: Captain? Captain?
JANEWAY: Oh, sorry.
EMH: How could you sleep at a time like this?
JANEWAY: It's been a long day. You were saying?
EMH: What's wrong?
JANEWAY: Nothing.
EMH: You're ill!
JANEWAY: I have a headache.
EMH: Fever, you have a fever.
JANEWAY: I'll live.
EMH: Medical emergency!
JANEWAY: Doctor.
EMH: Someone's got to treat you immediately. Call Mister Paris. You've got to get to Sickbay.
JANEWAY: Doctor, I'm a little busy right now, helping a friend.
EMH: I, I'll be all right. Go, sleep, please. I'll still be here in the morning.
JANEWAY: Are you sure?
EMH: Yes. Please, I don't want to be responsible for any more suffering.
JANEWAY: Good night. If you need anything.
EMH: I'll call. Thank you, Captain.
EMH: In that book which is my memory, on the first page of the chapter that is the day when I first met you, appear the words - Here begins a new life.

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]
NARRATOR: The Adventures of Captain Proton! Chapter Eighteen: Bride of Chaotica! The evil Doctor Chaotica kidnaps Constance Goodheart and plans to sacrifice her to Arachnia, Queen of the Spider People. Captain Proton travels millions of miles to Planet X where he will invade the Fortress of Doom. Chaotica fires his fiendish Death Ray. Certain death for Proton as his rocket ship bursts into flames.
KIM: We didn't burst into flames in the last chapter. Why are these recaps always so inaccurate?
PARIS: Well, they brought people back to the theaters.
KIM: Cliff-hangers.
PARIS: The lost art of hyperbole. You ready?
KIM: Aye, Captain.
PARIS: Let's get this show on the road. Computer, begin Chapter Eighteen.
KIM: We're receiving a transmission. It's Chaotica.
PARIS: Imagising.
CHAOTICA (screen): Captain Proton. Surrender!
PARIS: Not a chance. Release Miss Goodheart and we'll be on our way.
CHAOTICA (screen): I'm afraid your secretary has already been promised to Queen Arachnia as a Supreme Sacrifice.
KIM: You'll never get away with this.
CHAOTICA (screen): Oh, ho ho ho, but I shall. You escaped from my Death Ray once, but you won't survive this!
KIM: He's charging the weapon.
PARIS: Brace for impact.
KIM: Direct hit. We lost both engines.
PARIS: Steering jets are on the fritz.
KIM: We're going down!
PARIS: The landing gear is jammed. Hang on!
KIM: Opening hatch.
PARIS: Welcome to Planet X.
KIM: What's the plan?
PARIS: This is the part where we defeat Chaotica's soldiers, steal their uniforms, and make our way through the underground caverns.
KIM: Hey, I thought you said there were slave girls in this chapter.
PARIS: After we infiltrate the Fortress of Doom, we'll free Chaotica's harem. Let's go.
KIM: I'm right behind you.

[Holodeck - Planet X]
KIM: Planet X looks kind of familiar. What was the last place we went to?
PARIS: The Mines of Mercury.
KIM: They're identical.
PARIS: Sets were expensive. At least there's no erupting volcano this time. Ah, behold the Fortress of Doom.
KIM: And how are we supposed to get up there?
PARIS: I told you. The un
BOTH: Derground caverns.
KIM: Right.
KIM: I thought you said there was no volcano.
PARIS: I did.
KIM: Er, Tom.
PARIS: Definitely not Chaotica.
KIM: Computer, end program.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Holodeck controls are offline.
PARIS: Paris to bridge. Bridge, respond.
KIM: We need to find the manual overrides.
PARIS: There's an access port in the rocket ship. Come on.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: We've dropped out of warp. We're at a dead stop.
JANEWAY: Cause?
TUVOK: Unknown. Engines are operational.
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading gravimetric forces around the ship. They're disrupting our power flow.
TUVOK: Control systems are going offline. I no longer have access to communications, deflector, weapons.
JANEWAY: Scan for vessels, tractor beams, anything that might explain what's holding us here.

[Holodeck - Planet X]
LONZAK: Halt in the name of Chaotica! Proton!
KIM: Buddy of yours?
LONZAK: Surprised? You thought I perished in the Den of Crocodiles.
PARIS: We don't have time for this.
LONZAK: I survived clinging to the thought that I would one day

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I believe I have an explanation. Sensors show that we've entered a layer of subspace. It's disrupting our warp field.
JANEWAY: Do we have impulse?
CHAKOTAY: Yes
JANEWAY: Engage at full.
TUVOK: No change in our position.
JANEWAY: Route all available power to the engines.
TUVOK: We're not moving.
CHAKOTAY: The impulse reactor's running hot. We're heading for an overload.
JANEWAY: Give it all she's got. Full thrusters.
CHAKOTAY: No effect. Reactors are critical.
JANEWAY: Abort. Increase power to the structural integrity field. We may be here awhile.

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]
PARIS: It's no use. I can't disengage the program.
KIM: Well, you better think of something fast, Proton. A second distortion just appeared. Whatever they are, they're getting bigger.
PARIS: Hold on. I've got access to the transporter. I'm going to try a site to site.
KIM: There's a third one.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I've run a trans-spectral analysis. The area between space and subspace is unstable throughout this region.
TORRES: Basically, we've run aground on a subspace sandbar. I've tried realigning the warp field, reversing hull polarity.
PARIS: Maybe we should just get out and push.
SEVEN: The gravimetric forces are disrupting our control systems.
TORRES: As long as we're trapped here we won't have access to the computer core, tactical, holodecks, and all but six replicators.
JANEWAY: What about those distortions on the holodeck? What's the connection?
SEVEN: They appear to be random energy fluctuations. I don't believe they post a threat.
JANEWAY: Let's keep an eye on them anyway, and evacuate that deck just to be safe. A few years back, when I was a science officer on the Al-Batani, we tried to navigate a dense protonebula. It stopped us dead in our tracks. For three days we attempted to force our way out, until we realized we were trying too hard.
TORRES: Captain?
JANEWAY: Every time we engaged the engines, we were increasing the resistance of the nebula's particle field. We may be facing a similar situation.
SEVEN: Our own warp field may be increasing the gravimetric forces. If we power down the core and use minimal thrusters, we might be able to break free.
JANEWAY: You took the words right out of my mouth.
SEVEN: Your plan could work.
TORRES: Now that we have your blessing.
JANEWAY: Let's give it a try.

[Holodeck - Planet X]
LONZAK: Halt, in the name of Chaotica!
ALIEN: We intend no harm.
LONZAK: Seize them! Lower the drawbridge. We are bringing prisoners.

[Holodeck - Fortress of Doom]
CHAOTICA: Yes, yes, yes, Lonzak, what do you want?
LONZAK: Your Majesty.
CHAOTICA: Where's Proton?
LONZAK: He er, escaped.
CHAOTICA: Fool! You will pay for your incompetence. Seize him!
ROBOT: Surrender.
LONZAK: But Majesty, I have brought prisoners.
CHAOTICA: More Earthlings?
LONZAK: No. They claim they're from another Dimension.
CHAOTICA: The Fifth Dimension. Bring them to me.
ALIEN: Identify yourself.
CHAOTICA: You insult me. I am Chaotica, Ruler of the Cosmos.
LONZAK: Kneel before his Majesty. I said, kneel!
CHAOTICA: You have invaded my planet. Why?
ALIEN: To contact other photonic lifeforms. To learn from them.
CHAOTICA: Are you alone or are you the vanguard of an invading army?
ALIEN: We are explorers.
CHAOTICA: I am growing weary of this charade. Your armies will be no match for my space force. We'll crush you like insects.
ALIEN: They are hostile. This contact should be terminated.
CHAOTICA: Indeed. Lonzak, execute them.
CHAOTICA: Coward. He'll learn there's no escape from Chaotica. Gather my Space Force. Power the Death Ray.
LONZAK: At once, Majesty.
CHAOTICA: Take Miss Goodheart to Arachnia. Invite the Queen to join me in battle. Together, we will rain destruction on the Fifth Dimension!
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We've been spinning our wheels for three days now, and still no progress in breaking free of the subspace layer.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Look on the bright side. there's only three meals a day.
JANEWAY: Coffee, black.
NEELIX: Sorry, Captain. We lost two more replicators this morning
JANEWAY: Listen to me very carefully because I'm only going to say this once. Coffee, black.
NEELIX: Yes, ma'am. Coffee, black. While I've got your attention, there are
JANEWAY: Coffee first. Now, what's the problem?
NEELIX: It's a, it's a delicate matter.
JANEWAY: I don't have time to play twenty questions, Neelix.
NEELIX: Replicators aren't the only systems of convenience offline. We've only got four functioning lavatories for a ship of a hundred and fifty people.
JANEWAY: I see.
NEELIX: Needless to say, lines are beginning to form. If we don't get unstuck soon we may have a serious problem on our hands. Especially with the Bolians. All but three sonic showers are offline, too. In another couple of days
JANEWAY: I get the idea.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain to the bridge.
JANEWAY: On my way. I'm going to leave these problems in your capable hands.
NEELIX: Yes ma'am. I was thinking, if we drew up a schedule.
JANEWAY: Whatever it takes.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Status.
TORRES: The warp core has been powered down. The thrusters at standby.
JANEWAY: Okay. Let's give it a try. Take us out, Tom. Nice and slow.
PARIS: We're moving. Two meters per second. Three meters.
JANEWAY: Steady.
PARIS: Nine meters. Ten.
JANEWAY: Increase power to the thrusters by fifty percent.
TORRES: We're approaching the subspace boundary.
PARIS: Twenty five meters per second. Wait a minute, we're slowing down. Nineteen meters per second, eighteen.
TORRES: Captain, I'm reading power surges.
JANEWAY: Source?
TORRES: Unknown, but they look like weapon signatures.
KIM: I'm not reading any other ships in the area.
PARIS: We've stopped.
TUVOK: I've localized the weapons fire. It's emanating from within the ship. Deck six, holodeck two.
JANEWAY: Who's still on that deck?
TUVOK: No one. No lifesigns.
KIM: There's a program running. It's Captain Proton.
PARIS: Proton?
CHAKOTAY: Can you shut it down?
KIM: Negative. Control systems still malfunctioning.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, get down there and find out what's happening. Well, join him.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

[Holodeck - Planet X]
TUVOK: It appears that a battle took place.
PARIS: Believe me, it wasn't like this when I left. I must have missed a few chapters.
TUVOK: Holodeck programs don't normally run by themselves.
PARIS: No kidding.
PARIS: She's dead.
TUVOK: Who is she?
PARIS: Constance Goodheart, my secretary. This doesn't make sense. She isn't supposed to die. She's one of the good guys.
TUVOK: I'm sure you two were very close, but she is a holodeck character.
PARIS: A character from 1930s Hollywood. The good guys never get killed. Something's wrong here.
ROBOT: Invaders from the Fifth Dimension.
PARIS: Satan's Robot.
TUVOK: Naturally.
ROBOT: Queen Arachnia is on her way. Invaders from the Fifth Dimension. Destroy Proton.
PARIS: Give me a hand. If we can repair his vocalizer he might be able to tell us what's been going on. It looks like he burned out a resister.
TUVOK: A what?
PARIS: That's a few centuries before duotronic circuitry.
TUVOK: I see. How do you propose we repair him?
PARIS: Well, first of all, I've gotta remove this damaged tube. No problem. Just a few crossed wires.
TUVOK: Your knowledge of this technology is most impressive.
PARIS: Oh, thanks. Got it.
ROBOT: Intruders. Intruders. Intruders. Intruder alert! Intruder alert!
PARIS: Tell us what happened.
ROBOT: Invaders from the Fifth Dimension. Invaders from the Fifth Dimension
PARIS: Hey, calm down.
TUVOK: How did these invaders get here?
ROBOT: A portal.
PARIS: A Fifth Dimension? There's not supposed to be alien invaders in this story. That's in Captain Proton versus the Cosmic Creature.
ROBOT: Invaders from the Fifth Dimension.
PARIS: Those subspace distortions. Take us to this portal.
ROBOT: There.
TUVOK: Photonic charges. The same signatures as the weapons fire we detected.
ROBOT: The Fifth Dimension.
TUVOK: We must report this to the Captain.
PARIS: Wait. I want to check my rocket ship first.
TUVOK: Excuse me?
PARIS: It's got sensors, sort of. Maybe they can tell us something Voyager's sensors can't.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I've established a visual link with the holodeck. The attack appears to be originating from subspace.
KIM: Can you tell where it's coming from?
SEVEN: No.
SEVEN: What was that?
KIM: Chaotica's Death Ray.
SEVEN: Excuse me?
KIM: Let's see if we can get a look inside his Fortress, find out what he's up to.
CHAOTICA (screen): Full power to the Death Ray! Arachnia, Queen of the Spider People. You have not responded to my summons. Don't
KIM: I don't get it. Chaotica was supposed to be fighting Earth in this chapter.
SEVEN: Apparently he's found a new enemy.
KIM: The Fifth Dimension.
SEVEN: It seems your infantile scenario now poses a security risk.
KIM: It was just supposed to be a little harmless entertainment.
SEVEN: Entertainment. Another frivolous human endeavor.

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]
TUVOK: These are your sensor readings?
PARIS: Telegram. It's a message to Captain Proton from the President of Earth. Intercepted communications between Doctor Chaotica and Arachnia. Stop. Chaotica at war with aliens from Fifth Dimension. Stop. Must strike now to disable Death Ray.
TUVOK: Stop. Please summarize the message.
PARIS: Well, it looks like Chaotica has captured a couple of aliens from the Fifth Dimension.
TUVOK: An alternate universe.
PARIS: Could be. Maybe they wandered into the holodeck through one of those distortions.
TUVOK: To participate in a game?
ROBOT: Intruder!
TUVOK: I assume there's no locking mechanism on the hatch?
PARIS: It was a simpler time.
TUVOK: Is he part of the program?
PARIS: I don't recognize him.
ROBOT: Invaders!
PARIS: Quiet! Look there's been a misunderstanding. I'm Ensign Paris from the Starship Voyager. This is Lieutenant Tuvok.
ALIEN: You have killed fifty three of my people.
PARIS: We haven't killed anyone.
TUVOK: Ensign. Everything you see here is a simulation. None of it's real.
ALIEN: Simulation?
TUVOK: A photonically-based projection.
ALIEN: All life is photonic.
TUVOK: We are not. we are biochemical lifeforms.
ALIEN: I'm not familiar with biochemical.
TUVOK: We are carbon based. We live aboard a starship. I believe we have become trapped in a region of space that intersects your own.
ALIEN: We've detected no starship. Only this planet.
TUVOK: This planet isn't real. As I told you, it's part of a simulation.
PARIS: Maybe we can help you adjust your sensors.
ALIEN: You don't register as a lifeform. You are the illusion.
PARIS: We're as real as you are. Listen.
ROBOT: Citizen of the Fifth Dimension, you will be destroyed. You
PARIS: Wait. Wait!
ROBOT: Damage. Damage. Require maintenance. Help. Help. Help.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Let me get this straight. Transdimensional aliens have mistaken your Captain Proton simulation for reality.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: And now an armed conflict has broken out between these aliens and Chaotica's holographic army.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. His Army of Evil.
JANEWAY: And will someone please explain why we haven't simply shut down the holodeck?
SEVEN: We've tried. The controls are still offline.
JANEWAY: We're going to have to get through to these aliens somehow and explain that they're fighting shadows.
PARIS: We've tried, but they don't believe us. They think that we're not real. They can't detect Voyager, so every time they scan us we seem as artificial to them as holographic characters do to us.
CHAKOTAY: That explains why they haven't answered our hails.
SEVEN: The Doctor is photonic. He may be able to persuade them.
JANEWAY: It's worth a try. Brief him.
PARIS: In the meantime, I think we should let the program play out.
JANEWAY: You're not suggesting we wait until this Chaotica defeats the aliens?
PARIS: No, no, I'm suggesting that we help the aliens to defeat Chaotica. They think that he's leading some kind of hostile invasion force. Once that threat is gone, it's a good bet that they will leave and close up their portals.
CHAKOTAY: How do you propose to defeat Chaotica?
PARIS: Well, he's been attacking the aliens with his Death Ray.
TUVOK: It's a shame we don't have one.
PARIS: Forget about what it's called, Tuvok. In the world of Captain Proton, it's the most powerful weapon that there is. And because it's photonic, it's lethal to these aliens. Now, in Chapter eighteen, Captain Proton disables this weapon just before Chaotica can use it to destroy Earth.
JANEWAY: And you think that Proton, namely you of course, could still do that?
PARIS: Well, we'd have to knock out the Lightning Shield first.
SEVEN: A forcefield.
PARIS: Yeah, now you're catching on. The Destructo Beam on my rocket ship can disable the Death Ray, but only if someone gets inside the Fortress of Doom and can shut down the Lightning Shield.
CHAKOTAY: And who's supposed to do that?
PARIS: Arachnia, Queen of the Spider People.
JANEWAY: Charming.
PARIS: Chaotica thinks so. In the story, he's in love with her. He's been trying to form an alliance since Chapter Three. She's the only one that he trusts, the only one that can get close enough to disable the Lightning Shield. Somebody is going to have to take on her character.
JANEWAY: Who'd you have in mind? Oh, no!
PARIS: It's the role of a lifetime.
TUVOK: Captain, need I remind you that we have exhausted all other possibilities of escaping this layer of subspace.
CHAKOTAY: Until we can eliminate those distortions, we're trapped.
SEVEN: Think of it as Starfleet's first encounter with Planet X.
JANEWAY: Thanks.
PARIS: Captain, it won't be so bad. I can explain to you what you can expect. I can tell you
JANEWAY: All right, all right. I'm a size four.

[Doctor's office]
TORRES: What's the emergency?
EMH: I've been enlisted. I'm supposed to make contact with our photonic friends from the Fifth Dimension and convince them to call off their attack.
TORRES: Congratulations. Why do you need me?
EMH: It's an undercover mission. I'll need a bit of cosmetic surgery. These are the parameters for my new costume.

[Medical lab]
TORRES: What are you going as, the Emperor of the Universe?
EMH: Well, I've been forced to scale back my role in the interest of credibility. I'll be President of Earth. I must say, the idea of an entire universe populated by photonic beings is rather appealing.
TORRES: Well, if your mission fails, you could be taking up permanent residence.
KIM (voiceover): Kim to Sickbay. Report to holodeck two, Doctor.
TORRES: You're all set. The new parameters will activate as soon as you enter the holodeck.
EMH: Thank you.
TORRES: Break a leg.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: So all I have to do is find the controls of this Death Ray and deactivate it.
PARIS: It's not as simple as it sounds. Now, Chaotica might be a 1930s villain, but he's very clever. It'd help if you knew some of the rules.
JANEWAY: I'm listening.
PARIS: All right. Well, first of all, he's a megalomaniac, so it's a good idea to appeal to his ego.
JANEWAY: Right.
PARIS: And, er, use grandiose language. He likes to be called sire. And it helps to say things like the clever fiendishness of your evil plan is brilliant.

[Turbolift]
JANEWAY: Deck four.
PARIS: Now remember, it's ray gun, not phaser. Imagiser, not viewscreen. Earthlings, not Terrans.
JANEWAY: Got it.
PARIS: And another thing. These villains always have a trick up their sleeve. Trapdoors, secret weapons.
JANEWAY: It's the holodeck. I can't be hurt by weapons.
PARIS: That doesn't mean you can't be restrained, or thrown into the Dungeon of Pain.
JANEWAY: Noted.
PARIS: Now, as soon as you get the Death Ray shut down, call me in my rocket ship and give me the signal to fire.

[Corridor]
PARIS: You'll have to use Chaotica's broadcast microphone.
JANEWAY: This is how you've been spending your free time?
PARIS: Well, I've been studying how past generations viewed the future.
JANEWAY: And?
PARIS: Well, it didn't work out quite as black and white as they imagined. Now, specifications for Arachnia's costume. One more thing. if you have trouble with Chaotica, or you can't get to the Death Ray, you can always uncork the pheromones.
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon.
PARIS: Chapter sixteen, Spell of the Spider. Arachnia sends Chaotica a vial of her irresistible potion. Now, whenever he gets a whiff, he's under her spell.
JANEWAY: I get the picture.
PARIS: Yeah, well, my point is that these pheromones seem to throw Chaotica for a loop. Well, it works in Chapter sixteen, anyway. Now, the vial is sitting on a small pedestal next to the throne.
JANEWAY: I'll keep an eye out.
PARIS: Okay.
JANEWAY: Thanks for the briefing.
PARIS: I'll see you at the Fortress of Doom. And remember, you're the Queen.

[Holodeck - Fortress of Doom]
LONZAK: Sire. Three more of our space ships have been destroyed.
CHAOTICA: Argh! Full power to the Death Ray.
CHAOTICA: Citizens of the Fifth Dimension. Your feeble attacks are nothing but pinpricks to me. Surrender now and I will be merciful.
LONZAK: We're receiving a transmission.
CHAOTICA: They are surrendering.
LONZAK: No. It's Queen Arachnia. She wishes to cross the drawbridge.
CHAOTICA: What are you waiting for? Show her in.
LONZAK: I present her Royal Highness, Arachnia!
CHAOTICA: Ahh. At last, at last. My Queen.
CHAOTICA: This is an historic occasion. Kindred souls meet at last.
JANEWAY: It's an honor to be in your presence, Majesty. I've always admired your clever fiendishness.
CHAOTICA: Ah, your taste is exceeded only by your beauty.
JANEWAY: This must be your Death Ray.
CHAOTICA: That, my dear, is the Cradle of Persuasion. It's fully equipped. Brain probe, pain modulator.
JANEWAY: Impressive. It's good you have the Lightning Shield to protect your equipment.
CHAOTICA: Yes. As long as it's electrified, I am invincible. But my greatest achievement is there. Behold, the Death Ray.
JANEWAY: Oh, it looks like a formidable weapon.
CHAOTICA: The most powerful in the cosmos. There is so much more I want to show you. My throne, for example. The seat of my Empire.
JANEWAY: Ah. I see you've kept my pheromones. I didn't realize you were the sentimental type.
CHAOTICA: Your perfume inspires me.
JANEWAY: Would you mind?
CHAOTICA: Oh, please.
JANEWAY: Somehow I feel comfortable here.
CHAOTICA: Join me and you will have your own chair. One adorned with the most precious jewels and the softest silk.
JANEWAY: Your Majesty seems overly concerned with romantic matters when there's a battle to be won. That is why you asked me here.
CHAOTICA: Of course, my dear. Forgive me. It's just that the air itself seems to vibrate in your presence.
JANEWAY: We can't be slaves to our passion. Not when your Empire is threatened. I have assembled my fleet of Spider ships. However, the Lightning Shield prevents them from approaching your fortress.
CHAOTICA: We'll send them directly into battle, alongside my space force.
JANEWAY: My soldiers wish to pay homage to you.
CHAOTICA: Gratifying. Of course, if I lower the shield my fortress will be defenseless. Even an ally might choose such a moment to seize my throne.
JANEWAY: You don't trust me.
CHAOTICA: There is a way you could convince me of your loyalty.
JANEWAY: Oh?
CHAOTICA: I'll lower my Lightning Shield but first, you must become my Queen! Gather my courtiers! Prepare for the ceremony!
JANEWAY: And don't forget to deactivate the Lightning Shield, so my subjects may witness the blessed event.
CHAOTICA: Very well. Do as she says, once her guests have arrived.
LONZAK: Yes, Sire.
CHAOTICA: And so, my dear, the day you have always dreamed of has arrived. The day you become Bride of Chaotica!

[Holodeck - Planet X]
EMH: Welcome.
ALIEN: You are photonic.
EMH: Guilty as charged.
ALIEN: You signaled me across the threshold. How?
EMH: I believe you dropped your calling card. I return it to you as a sign of good faith.
ALIEN: Identify yourself.
EMH: I am the President of Earth.
ALIEN: Earth?
EMH: A planet some distance from here. I've come on a mission of peace.
ALIEN: Elaborate.
EMH: Your people and the people of Earth have a common enemy.
ALIEN: Chaotica.
EMH: The one and only.
ALIEN: He threatens to invade our realm, destroy our people.
EMH: Join the club. Chaotica has designs on Earth too. But we've withstood countless attacks, all thanks to one man. Captain Proton.
ALIEN: Captain Proton?
EMH: Defender of the universe, scourge of intergalactic evil, And a competent medic to boot, but don't say I said so. Even as we speak, he's preparing to destroy Chaotica's Death Ray, but he needs your help.
ALIEN: Explain.
EMH: Your weapons pose a threat to Proton's rocket ship. You must cease firing while he mounts his attack. Once Chaotica's Death Ray is destroyed, you can return to your realm confident that you'll never hear from him again.
ALIEN: Captain Proton may proceed.
EMH: On behalf of the citizens of Earth, I thank you.

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]
PARIS: Space drive.
KIM: Check.
ROBOT: Check.
PARIS: Destructo beam.
KIM: Check.
ROBOT: Check.
PARIS: If I could access holodeck controls, the first thing I'd do is delete this guy.
ROBOT: Delete this guy.
PARIS: As a matter of fact, as soon as this is all over I think I'm going to delete the whole program.
KIM: What about your historical study?
PARIS: Class dismissed. No more robots, no more mad scientists, no more Death Rays. I am retiring my rocket pack, Harry. Someone else can save the universe from now on.
KIM: The final chapter, huh?
PARIS: The end.
EMH: Isn't anyone going to sing Hail to the Chief?
KIM: Mister President. How'd it go?
EMH: My performance was unimpeachable.
KIM: He agreed?
EMH: Let's just say I'm considering running for office when we get back to Earth.
PARIS: All right, then. Let's get this thing in the air and hope Captain Janeway is giving a command performance.

[Holodeck - Fortress of Doom]
LONZAK: Queen Arachnia.
JANEWAY: Don't tell me. My wedding ring.
LONZAK: Doctor Chaotica's wedding ring. You will present it to him at the end of the ceremony.
JANEWAY: Your Majesty, perhaps we should lower the Lightning Shield in anticipation of my guests.
CHAOTICA: Why this preoccupation with the Shield?
JANEWAY: Oh, forgive me. It's just that, as a fellow ruler of the cosmos I often have to do things myself.
CHAOTICA: Ah. Because of the incompetence of your inferiors, no doubt.
JANEWAY: Something like that.
CHAOTICA: Oh, Arachnia, my love, my life. how well you understand our plight. If it weren't beneath my dignity, I, I would weep. How I've longed for someone who would understand.
JANEWAY: We have a saying on Arachnia. It's lonely at the top.
CHAOTICA: No longer, my dear.
LONZAK: Majesty! Proton is preparing to attack.
CHAOTICA: Target his rocket ship.
CHAOTICA: You have betrayed me. You are in league with Proton. Impetuous harlot!
JANEWAY: Tell me how to deactivate the Lightning Shield, or I'll show you just how impetuous I can be.
CHAOTICA: What are you waiting for, you great lummox? Kill her!
JANEWAY: Ha! You're no match for Arachnia. Now, tell me how to shut down the Shield.
CHAOTICA: The confinement rings.
CHAOTICA: Oh, don't worry, I wouldn't kill my bride. Not until after our wedding night. Reactivate the Death Ray! Destroy Proton!

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]
PARIS: We've been hit.
KIM: Well, I guess the Captain ran into some trouble.
PARIS: We're not going down without a fight. Doc, activate the Destructo Beam.
EMH: The what?
PARIS: Big button in the middle of that panel.
ROBOT: Destructo Beam!
PARIS: The other panel!
EMH: Destructo beam activated.
KIM: We just dropped out of range. We're losing altitude.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Report.
TORRES: The alien weapons fire is increasing. It's causing the distortions to grow larger. We're being pulled deeper into subspace.

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]
ROBOT: Invaders! Invaders!
EMH: Er, incoming.

[Holodeck - Fortress of Doom]
LONZAK: Proton's ship is damaged, but still airborne.
CHAOTICA: Not for long. Fire at will.
CHAOTICA: Lonzak.
CHAOTICA: Man the Lightning Shield.
LONZAK: Arachnia?
CHAOTICA: Lonzak. Quickly, Lonzak. No time for dawdling.
LONZAK: Your beauty is maddening. Entangle me in your web.
JANEWAY: Let me out of here and I'll do all that, and more.
LONZAK: At once, my Queen.
CHAOTICA: Back to your station.
CHAOTICA: Idiot!
JANEWAY: Deactivate the shield. Now.
CHAOTICA: Such passion, such strength. Together we could conquer the universe. End this madness, and you may yet live to be my Bride.
JANEWAY: The shield.
JANEWAY: I don't know how to tell you this but the wedding's off. Arachnia to Proton. Arachnia to Proton. Do you read me?

[Holodeck - Proton's ship]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Arachnia to Proton.
PARIS: I'm reading you.
JANEWAY (voiceover): The Lightning Shield is down.
PARIS: Acknowledged. Harry, target the Death Ray. Doc, fire the Destructo Beam on my mark. Ready? Now!

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The distortions are closing.
TORRES: We're realigning with normal space.
CHAKOTAY: Helm, full impulse.

[Holodeck - Fortress of Doom]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Bridge to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): The aliens have retreated

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: And they've closed the distortions. We've cleared the subspace layer.

[Holodeck - Fortress of Doom]
JANEWAY: Secure all systems, and organize damage repair teams.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Understood. We're preparing to shut down the holodeck.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, give me a minute.
PARIS: I was about to say, Captain Proton to the rescue, but I see you have everything under control.
JANEWAY: I'm the Queen, remember?
CHAOTICA: Arachnia, death as you know it has no hold on me. My defeat is but a temporary setback. I shall return to seek my revenge.
JANEWAY: He doesn't give up, does he?
PARIS: They never do.
CHAOTICA: Our love was not meant to be, my Queen. But be warned. You have not seen the last of Chaotica.
PARIS: The end of a twisted madman.
JANEWAY: And you're going to miss him.
PARIS: A little.

[Shrine]
MASTER: The Kol-Ut-Shan. A cornerstone of our beliefs.
YOUNG TUVOK: Infinite Diversity in Infinite Combinations. I know all about Vulcan philosophies.
VULCAN MASTER: Why have you come here?
YOUNG TUVOK: I was sent against my will.
VULCAN MASTER: Then I suggest you leave.
YOUNG TUVOK: I'm not a prisoner?
VULCAN MASTER: Only of your emotions, or so I have been told.
YOUNG TUVOK: My emotions free me.
VULCAN MASTER: I see. It's regrettable that I won't be able to teach you.
YOUNG TUVOK: Where should I go?
VULCAN MASTER: Are you seeking my counsel?
YOUNG TUVOK: I can't return home. My father's banished me.
VULCAN MASTER: Your school?
YOUNG TUVOK: They revoked my seat.
VULCAN MASTER: Why?
YOUNG TUVOK: Because I refused to deny myself passion, the way you and men like my father do.
VULCAN MASTER: You reject logic.
YOUNG TUVOK: If I was meant to deny feelings, why was I born with them? Where's the logic in that?
VULCAN MASTER: Hidden for you to find. Or in plain sight for you to ignore.
YOUNG TUVOK: You speak in riddles because the truth frightens you.
VULCAN MASTER: You're right, it does frighten me. You are surprised to hear a Vulcan master admit to having emotions?
YOUNG TUVOK: Yes.
VULCAN MASTER: Emotions can be a powerful tool. To deny their existence is illogical. But you must learn to control them.
YOUNG TUVOK: Why?
VULCAN MASTER: You wish to be taught?
YOUNG TUVOK: I would question everything you say.
VULCAN MASTER: You would not be a worthy pupil otherwise. Let us begin. Sit down, Tuvok.

[Shuttlecraft]
NOSS: Tu be veg!
PARIS: Er, sorry?
NOSS: Sen. Neeba sen.
PARIS: Either the universal translator's offline, or I hit my head harder than I thought.
NOSS: Ruk.
PARIS: All right. Take it easy. All right, all right. Take it easy.
NOSS: Fita!
PARIS: This? Listen, I really need this.
NOSS: Fita ur neeto.
PARIS: Okay, okay.
PARIS: First day in town and I've already been mugged.

[Planet surface]
TUVOK: I'm Commander Tuvok of the Starship Voyager. Tuvok.
NOSS: Tuwok.
TUVOK: Yes. And you?
NOSS: Noss.
TUVOK: Noss.
TUVOK: We'll go to my vessel. I see you've already been there.

[Shuttle]
PARIS: Mayday, mayday. Paris to Voyager, Respond. Oh, come on.
TUVOK: Her name is Noss. She was attacked by two humanoid males.
PARIS: Sure she didn't attack them?
TUVOK: They were attempting to rob her.
PARIS: Seems to be a local pastime.
TUVOK: She requires medical attention.
PARIS: I'd love to help, but somebody stole our med-kits.
TUVOK: Food. What's the status of the shuttle?
PARIS: Fractures throughout the hull, environmental systems down, impulse engines are beyond repair. Told you we should have brought the Delta Flyer.
TUVOK: Communications appear to be functional.
PARIS: It won't do us any good. Every time I transmit a signal, it gets bounced back by the distortion field that pulled us down here. It looks like we fell into some kind of gravity well. As far as I can tell, this planet is a part of an entire solar system that is stuck in a pocket of subspace.
TUVOK: Fascinating.
PARIS: Yeah. Well, scientific interest aside, I don't see any easy way out.
TUVOK: No doubt Voyager has begun a rescue effort. The Doctor?
PARIS: His mobile emitter was damaged during the crash. With a little luck, I might be able to repair it and bring him back online.
TUVOK: Make it your top priority.
NOSS: Gren, gren.
PARIS: What is it?
TUVOK: Thirteen humanoids approaching. The same species that attacked her. Gather as many supplies as you can carry. We're leaving.
PARIS: You really think it's smart to abandon the shuttle?
TUVOK: Noss appears to have survived here for some time. It's logical to assume she has access to a more secure shelter.
NOSS: Nemok. Alen. Alen.
PARIS: Whatever you say.

[Planet surface]
NOSS: Ai kan.

[Noss's ship]
PARIS: Doesn't look like this bird's gonna fly either.
TUVOK: Minimal power and life support, but the ship is protected by a forcefield.
PARIS: That explains how she's been able to survive here. Anything resembling an engine?
TUVOK: I'm detecting engine debris two kilometers away. It is of the same configuration as this vessel.
PARIS: Great. We've got two unusable ships, and the only way Voyager is going to detect our distress call is if they crash land right on top of us.
TUVOK: Progress?
PARIS: The optronic relays took heavy damage. I'm bypassing the primary circuits. Come on, Doc. I know you're in there.
EMH: I'm guessing we hit a snag.
TUVOK: An accurate assumption.
NOSS: Rev den ut. Ut rev?
EMH: Tun sank. Ton rev ut teem sayd.
PARIS: You speak her language?
EMH: A universal translator was written into my program.
PARIS: Ask her how long she's been here. If she knows a way to get back through that sinkhole.
EMH: Deen ya tone ud la kar. Padeen nefka minruk?
NOSS: Laka heen. Zen nik lurka. Irut tota. Maez bemrukaya.
PARIS: What'd she say?
EMH: She said she's been here fourteen seasons, and in that time, she's seen many ships come down. but she's never seen one go back up again.

[Planet surface]
PARIS: Come back, you little bloodsucker.
PARIS: I don't know what's worse, catching them or eating them.
NOSS: No poison.
PARIS: Well, hey may not be poisonous but they give me the creeps. Maybe I should have left the hunting to you and Tuvok.
NOSS: Let me. Yah!
PARIS: Looks delicious.

[Noss's ship]
EMH: Shut down my program? Why?
TUVOK: Our resources are severely limited. We may need your mobile emitter as a source of power.
EMH: I'm a Doctor, not a battery.
TUVOK: Until we're rescued, or you are needed for an emergency, I must insist that you remain offline.
PARIS: Make way for the mighty hunters.
EMH: If Mister Paris' hunting ability is any indication, maybe we should take him offline.
PARIS: Thanks for the vote of confidence, Doc.
NOSS: The hunt was good.
TUVOK: Impressive.
TUVOK: Voyager has fifteen decks, a crew of one hundred fifty two, warp and impulse engines.
NOSS: I want to see.
TUVOK: Someday, perhaps.
NOSS: Tell me about you there.
TUVOK: I am the Chief Tactical Officer.
NOSS: What else?
TUVOK: Can you be more specific?
NOSS: Your duties. Where you sleep. What you eat. Music. Friends.
TUVOK: Why is any of that relevant?
NOSS: Because it is you.
PARIS: When I first met her, she wouldn't even look at me. But she warmed up after, oh, three years.
EMH: The longest flirtation in Starfleet history.
PARIS: No kidding.
NOSS: She sounds fascinating.
PARIS: I just hope I see her again.
NOSS: You must really baiya jouton.
EMH: Love her very much.
PARIS: Yeah.
NOSS: More spiders?
PARIS: Oh, no, thank you. Three's my limit.
TUVOK: I will assist you.
EMH: Well, I suppose it's time I shut down my program.
PARIS: Good night, Doc.
PARIS: She likes you.
TUVOK: She has been alone for many years. She appreciates our company.
PARIS: No. I mean she likes you.
TUVOK: What are you implying?
PARIS: Oh, come on, Tuvok. You may be cold, but you're not blind.
TUVOK: Need I remind you that I am married.
PARIS: Your wife is fifty thousand light years away, in a different layer of space! The chances of you ever seeing her again are practically nonexistent.
TUVOK: Excuse me.

[Planet surface]
PARIS: What are you doing?
TUVOK: I'm recalibrating the distress beacon.
PARIS: Listen. What I said in there, about your wife. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to hurt your feelings.
TUVOK: I have no feelings for you to hurt.
PARIS: I think you do. You work hard to bury them, but they're there. And even if they're not, this is home now. You might as well accept it and try to find as much happiness as you can. Listen, you have a chance to make a decent life for yourself here.
TUVOK: There is still a possibility that Voyager will rescue us. You may see Lieutenant Torres again.
PARIS: If I didn't know you better, I'd say you were trying to cheer me up, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Is there a point to your pessimism?
PARIS: It's not pessimism, it's practicality. You of all people should understand that. Look, I've never met your wife but if she's half a logical as you are, I bet you she'd tell you the same thing.
TUVOK: Your attempt to play matchmaker is misguided. I am not experiencing Pon farr.
PARIS: What difference does it make? You obviously care about Noss. If you won't admit it to me, at least admit it to yourself.
TUVOK: I respect her ability to survive.
PARIS: It's more than that. I've seen the way you look at her.
TUVOK: What way is that?
PARIS: Like someone who wishes he wasn't Vulcan.

[Shrine]
TUVOK: I'm sorry I was born Vulcan.
VULCAN MASTER: Bilak par. Self-pity.
YOUNG TUVOK: Are you cataloging my emotions?
VULCAN MASTER: What is the source of your self-pity?
YOUNG TUVOK: Isn't it obvious? If I weren't Vulcan, I wouldn't be here now going through this pointless ritual.
VULCAN MASTER: You see only what is in front of you. You must learn to see behind you.
YOUNG TUVOK: Another riddle. I have no eyes to see behind me.
VULCAN MASTER: You have the eyes of memory. The knowledge of why you are here, and why you have lost control. Tell me your story.
YOUNG TUVOK: My father's already explained it.
VULCAN MASTER: I wish to hear it from you.
YOUNG TUVOK: Her name's Jara. Her father's a Terrelian diplomat. She's been granted a seat at my school.
VULCAN MASTER: And you have developed an emotional attraction toward her.
YOUNG TUVOK: Yes.
VULCAN MASTER: You love her.
YOUNG TUVOK: Yes.
VULCAN MASTER: Does she love you?
YOUNG TUVOK: No. She's, Jara doesn't return my feelings.
VULCAN MASTER: What if I were to say that I received a letter from your father, telling me that Jara is in love with one of your fellow students?
YOUNG TUVOK: That's a lie! Who is it?
VULCAN MASTER: Jealousy?
YOUNG TUVOK: I'll challenge him.
VULCAN MASTER: That would be illogical, because I have received no such letter.
YOUNG TUVOK: You're trying to trick me.
VULCAN MASTER: No. I'm trying to help you to understand. Shon-ha'lock, love, is the most dangerous emotion of all. It produces many other emotions. Jealousy, shame, rage, grief. You must learn to suppress them all, otherwise they will consume you. I can sense emotions building inside you like a gathering storm. If we begin now, we may be able to stop them. Captain's Log, supplemental. It's been over an hour since the shuttle disappeared from sensors.

[Bridge]
TORRES: I'm not detecting any debris.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe the shuttle was tractored or transported somewhere.
JANEWAY: Scan the region. Look for plasma emissions or EM displacements. Anything that might indicate another ship.
KIM: Nothing out of the ordinary. Hydrogen, helium, space dust.
JANEWAY: There has to be something out there. Shuttles don't just vanish into thin air.
TORRES: It's a gravimetric shear.
JANEWAY: Source.
KIM: Unknown.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Helm, full ahead.
KIM: We're caught in some kind of subspace sinkhole. It's pulling us in.
CHAKOTAY: The gravimetric shear is increasing.
JANEWAY: Go to warp
TORRES: I can't establish a field.
JANEWAY: Then we need more power to the impulse engines.
TORRES: That won't be enough. We've got to find a way to counter the gravitational pull.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, vent three million isodynes of plasma from the nacelles. Chakotay, reverse shield polarity.
KIM: We're clear.
JANEWAY: Move us away. Stand down red alert. Secure all stations. I'd say we have a pretty good idea what happened to that shuttle.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: The anomaly is approximately six hundred meters in diameter.
TORRES: It's out of phase with normal space. Even after recalibrating the sensors, it barely registers.
SEVEN: The distortion circumscribes a subspace zone that includes a Type G sun and three planets.
CHAKOTAY: Any sign of the shuttle?
SEVEN: No.
CHAKOTAY: I'd say it's time to break out the multispatial probe.
JANEWAY: Agreed. What the hell was that?
SEVEN: A vessel approaching off the port bow. They've locked on a tractor beam.
KIM (voiceover): Captain to the bridge.

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm only going to say this one more time. Disengage your tractor beam, sir.
YOST (screen): You were in danger of being pulled into the distortion. You should show a little gratitude.
KIM: We appreciate your help, but we didn't ask for. Captain, this is Mister Yost.
YOST (screen): Supervisor Yost, Renovation Team Nova.
JANEWAY: Kathryn Janeway, of the Starship Voyager.
YOST (screen): Until tomorrow, I suggest you stay at least two million kilometers from the distortion.
JANEWAY: What happens tomorrow?
YOST (screen): The rift will be closed by then.
JANEWAY: Some of our crew are trapped inside.
YOST (screen): I am sorry. We have lost eleven ships to the distortion over the last year. It must be sealed.
CHAKOTAY: What about your people?
YOST (screen): Even if there were survivors, there's no way to rescue them. The best we can do is to prevent others from being trapped.
JANEWAY: We can't abandon our crew. If you could delay your mission
YOST (screen): My orders are to seal the rift by this time tomorrow. If you want to attempt a rescue between now and then, the risk is yours to take, but I wouldn't advise it.
JANEWAY: Launch the probe.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Work with B'Elanna and Seven to enhance the sensors. Do whatever you can to find Tom and Tuvok. I'll be looking for a way to counter those gravitational forces.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in. I've been brushing up on sinkholes, quantum singularities.
CHAKOTAY: Any luck?
JANEWAY: All the data leads me to the same conclusion. They're mono-directional phenomena. What goes in doesn't come out.
CHAKOTAY: Well if it's any consolation, something's coming out of that anomaly.
JANEWAY: What is it?
CHAKOTAY: Telemetry from our probe. We've located the shuttle's distress beacon on a Class-D planet.
JANEWAY: Vulcan, human, alien lifesigns. At least we know they're alive.
CHAKOTAY: Keep reading.
JANEWAY: There's astronomical data here covering a three month period. How is that possible?
CHAKOTAY: There seems to be some sort of temporal differential.
JANEWAY: How big a differential?
CHAKOTAY: It's difficult to say, but every hour that passes for us could mean weeks, even months for Tom and Tuvok.
JANEWAY: Months trying to survive in a Class-D environment? More than likely, they've assumed that we left them behind long ago.
CHAKOTAY: Ready for the bad news?
JANEWAY: You're kidding.
CHAKOTAY: The gravitational stress is increasing. Seven believes the sinkhole is on the verge of collapse. When it does, everything inside will be crushed.

[Noss's ship]
PARIS: Noss!
EMH: Medical tricorder.
PARIS: We were ambushed.
EMH: Give me twenty milligrams of inaprovaline.
PARIS: They got away with a pair of resonator coils that we found.
EMH: Three fractured ribs, subdural hematoma, internal bleeding.
NOSS: Will he live?
EMH: Vulcans are very resilient. He'll be fine. How long has it been since I was last activated?
PARIS: Almost two months.
EMH: Two months? So, what's new?
PARIS: Oh, same old thing. Fighting off scavengers, hunting spiders.
EMH: No word from Voyager?
PARIS: They're probably three hundred light years closer to home by now.
EMH: I think I should remain online until Mister Tuvok is fully recovered.
PARIS: It's good to have you back, Doc.
NOSS: Rest.
TUVOK: How long was I unconscious?
NOSS: Too many hours.
TUVOK: Mister Paris?
NOSS: He'll be fine. I was afraid. It is good to see your eyes.
TUVOK: Don't.
NOSS: I only want to show you how I feel. You, you, you feel nothing for me?
TUVOK: I told you, I don't experience emotion. I have developed an appreciation and respect for you. Nothing more.
NOSS: Nothing?
TUVOK: I am sorry. I cannot return your affection.
NOSS: You cannot, or you will not?
TUVOK: A minor distinction.
NOSS: Logic! I hate logic!
TUVOK: Your emotions will only exacerbate the situation.
NOSS: Shevrot kat!
TUVOK: Insulting me will not help.
NOSS: Derot orat!

[Ready room]
SEVEN: We can use the multispatial probe as a transporter relay.
TORRES: It'll take a little time to reconfigure the targeting scanners but, with a little luck, it should work.
JANEWAY: Any reason we can't use the same relay to send a comm. signal?
TORRES: I don't see why not.
JANEWAY: Good. Let them know that help is on the way.
KIM (voiceover): Captain to the bridge.

[Bridge]
KIM: They've started ahead of schedule.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
YOST (screen): Yes?
JANEWAY: It was my understanding you wouldn't begin for another six hours.
YOST (screen): We're ready now.
JANEWAY: Well we're not. We need at least another two hours to make a rescue attempt.
YOST (screen): I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: How long until they seal the rift?
SEVEN: Approximately thirty minutes.
JANEWAY: Then that's all we've got.

[Planet surface - rock ledge]
PARIS: Tuvok? Hey!
TUVOK: I am meditating, Mister Paris.
PARIS: I don't care.
TUVOK: I trust there is an urgent reason for your lack of courtesy.
PARIS: You're damn right there is. What did you say to her?
TUVOK: Our conversation was private.
PARIS: Well, whatever you said, she's talking about leaving. Going off by herself because it's too painful to be around you.
TUVOK: She is under the influence of unfettered emotions.
PARIS: Well, maybe you're able to fetter your emotions, but the rest of us don't have that luxury. She is a living, breathing woman who for reasons that I can't begin to fathom, has fallen in love with you. Now, if you're incapable of returning her feelings, at least show her some compassion. Try to let her down easy.
TUVOK: There is no easy way to recover from infatuation.
PARIS: Oh, really? And what do you know about infatuation?
TUVOK: More than you might imagine.
PARIS: Enlighten me.
TUVOK: I have no intention of continuing this conversation any further.
PARIS: Come on, Tuvok. Come on. It's just you, me and the rocks.
TUVOK: When I was a young man, I experienced an emotional attraction toward a woman. It nearly destroyed me.
PARIS: Your wife?
TUVOK: No. Her name was Jara, a Terrelian female. I would have violated every tenet of Vulcan philosophy simply to be near her.
PARIS: She must have really been something.
TUVOK: I lost all sense of who I was. The emotional attraction I felt for her became a kind of insanity.
PARIS: Tuvok, everyone feels a little insane when they fall in love, but it's worth the risk.
TUVOK: For you, perhaps. But I am Vulcan. My natural emotions are erratic, volatile. If I don't control them, they will control me.
PARIS: Whatever happened to Jara?
TUVOK: I chose to leave her. I spent several months in isolation, studying with a Vulcan Master. I learned to suppress my emotions.
PARIS: Too bad.
TUVOK: Gravimetric distortions.
PARIS: What's causing them?
TUVOK: Unknown.

[Bridge]
KIM: No response to our hails, Captain.
SEVEN: At this rate, their anti-graviton beam will seal the distortion in approximately twenty nine minutes.
JANEWAY: Transporter status?
TORRES: I've completed the reconfiguration, but we're only going to be able to relay one transporter beam through the probe.
CHAKOTAY: We'll have to get Tom and Tuvok within a two meter radius of the distress beacon.
JANEWAY: Harry?
KIM: I've opened a channel.
JANEWAY: Voyager to away team.

[Noss's ship]
PARIS: What is it?
TUVOK: The distress beacon. We're receiving a transmission.
PARIS: Can you route it through your comm. system? If I'm right, this message was sent almost nine hours ago on a very slow carrier wave.
EMH: Can you speed it up?
PARIS: I'll try.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Voyager to away team. A transporter beam with a radius of two meters will activate at the coordinates of your distress beacon in exactly thirty minutes.
EMH: Thirty minutes? That would have been over eight hours ago!
PARIS: Shh, there's more.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Be advised we've detected a temporal difference between our two positions. According to our calculations, the differential ratio is point four seven four four seconds per minute. Repeat. Voyager to away team. A transporter beam with a radius of two meters
TUVOK: According to that formula, thirty minutes would translate to two days, eleven hours and forty seven seconds.
EMH: Well, we've waited this long.
NOSS: Tom.
TUVOK: The forcefield is holding.
PARIS: Not for long if they keep pelting us with these photon grenades.
EMH: How are we supposed to hold them off for two more days?

[Bridge]
SEVEN: The rift will be sealed in less than two minutes.
JANEWAY: Move us into range. Stand by for transport.
TORRES: Yes, ma'am.

[Noss's ship]
PARIS: The forcefield's losing power. Time?
EMH: We still have another hour before transport.
TUVOK: Where are you going?
NOSS: To repair the field generator.
TUVOK: I will accompany you.
NOSS: No. You stay. Prepare for the attack.
TUVOK: You can't go alone.
NOSS: Risking two lives would be illogical.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We're in transporter range.
JANEWAY: Link up with the probe and relay the signal.
TORRES: Stand by. I've got a lock on their beacon.
JANEWAY: They're supposed to be ready for transport in thirty two seconds. Let's hope they don't stand us up. Begin twenty second countdown on my mark. Now.

[Noss's ship]
EMH: We've got less than ten minutes to transport.
PARIS: Where the hell is Noss?
TUVOK: I'll find her.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Fifteen seconds. Fourteen. Thirteen.

[Planet surface]
NOSS: Tuvok.
TUVOK: I could not leave you behind.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Nine. Eight. Seven.

[Noss's ship]
EMH: Now, Mister Paris!
PARIS: Hurry.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Four. Three. Two.
JANEWAY: Initialize transport sequence. Energize.

[Transporter room]
KIM: We've got them. Welcome back. Who?
TUVOK: A friend. Commander Tuvok, personal log, stardate 52438.9. We are en route to Noss' homeworld. As I prepare to say goodbye, I find myself experiencing a certain discomfort.

[Corridor]
PARIS: Tuvok. Weird day.
TUVOK: Problems?
PARIS: I've spent the last two months wondering if I'd ever see B'Elanna again. As far as she's concerned, it's only been two days. I guess I expected her to have missed me, too.
TUVOK: Were it not for the time differential, I'm sure she would have experienced a deep sense of loss.
PARIS: You know something? I always thought that beneath that cold, Vulcan exterior lay a even colder Vulcan interior. Now, I'm convinced you're a hopeless romantic.
TUVOK: There is no need to insult me, Mister Paris.

[Transporter room]
NEELIX: Oh, here they are now. I was just getting Noss' recipe for sautéed spiders. She told me how much you enjoyed them.
PARIS: Let's just say it's an acquired taste.
NOSS: Goodbye, Tom. Thank you.
PARIS: Come on, Neelix.
NEELIX: Oh, of course.
PARIS: Crewman.
NOSS: I'm sorry.
TUVOK: For what?
NOSS: I know how difficult this was for you. For us. I just wish things had been different.
TUVOK: As do I.
NOSS: I understand. Thank you.
TUVOK: Live long and prosper, Noss.
NOSS: You too.

[Shrine]
MASTER: Infinite diversity
YOUNG TUVOK: In infinite combinations.
VULCAN MASTER: Your training is now complete. You have done well.
YOUNG TUVOK: Thank you.
VULCAN MASTER: You are now prepared to return to the world. Grief, anger, fear, and especially love, will never threaten you again.
YOUNG TUVOK: I am grateful.

[Qatai's ship]
QATAI: Ah! Surprised? What's wrong? Can't figure out why I'm still not running, ha? Can't read my thoughts? Go ahead, attack, take my ship. Damn ship. Hold together. Hold!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Wormhole?
TUVOK: Approximately four hundred million kilometers from our position.
CHAKOTAY: Take a look at the transkinetic vector.
JANEWAY: It leads to sector zero zero one.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like a wormhole but we're detecting massive bioplasmic activity.
JANEWAY: That suggests a lifeform. Neutrino flux?
CHAKOTAY: Erratic.
JANEWAY: A direct route to Earth's doorstep, out of the blue. What's wrong with this picture?
CHAKOTAY: We should launch a probe.
JANEWAY: Go to yellow alert. Prepare a class five probe. Let's see what's really out there. Daily log, Seven of Nine. While we failed to locate a new source of deuterium, our mission had educational value for at least one member of the crew.

[Delta Flyer]
NAOMI: If you go looking for deuterium tomorrow, can I come?
PARIS: Well, that's up to the Captain.
SEVEN: It's likely you'll be replaced by a more experienced officer.
NAOMI: But this is my first away mission and I didn't get to do anything.
SEVEN: I disagree. You familiarized yourself with this vessel.
NAOMI: Well, can't we make first contact with somebody, or get in a space battle?
PARIS: Yeah, can't we?
SEVEN: Another time, perhaps.
PARIS: Hey, Naomi, you want to take the helm?
NAOMI: Can I?
SEVEN: Ensign.
PARIS: She'll be familiarizing herself with the vessel. Here. Okay, first bring us up to one quarter impulse. Hit this control, then that one.
NAOMI: One quarter impulse, aye.
PARIS: Now, you think you can chart a course back to Voyager?
NAOMI: Yes, sir.

[Corridor]
PARIS: They're in a hurry.
SEVEN: Crewmen Boylen and White. Frequently late for their duty shifts.
PARIS: Speaking of late, I'll make a deal with you. I'll explain to Sam why her daughter's two hours late for bedtime, if you start on the survey report.
SEVEN: Acceptable.
PARIS: Have fun.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: You're back. I was beginning to worry.
SEVEN: The survey took longer than expected.
CHAKOTAY: Lucky our deuterium shortage is no longer an issue.
SEVEN: A wormhole.
KIM: The wormhole. It leads all the way back to Earth.
SEVEN: The odds of finding such a phenomenon are infinitesimal.
JANEWAY: Never bet against the house.
KIM: What are you doing?
SEVEN: Looking for anomalous readings.
TUVOK: You will find none.
CHAKOTAY: He's right. No subspatial contortions, no temporal variance.
JANEWAY: The probe we sent in has already picked up faint signals from the other side.
KIM: B'Elanna's still downloading them, but she's pretty sure they're from Starfleet.
SEVEN: This wormhole is only three hundred million kilometers away. Long range scans should have detected it days ago.
TUVOK: Perhaps it was an oversight on your part.
JANEWAY: If it'll make you feel better, run a diagnostic. In the meantime, let's maintain course.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
SEVEN: I completed my diagnostic. Sensors are operating at peak efficiency.
JANEWAY: Then there's nothing to worry about.
SEVEN: On the contrary. The wormhole's neutrino levels are extremely erratic.
JANEWAY: I thought so too, until I received this. It turns out those faint signals we detected were communiques from Starfleet. They assure me the neutrino flux is nothing to worry about.
SEVEN: Starfleet may be in error. We should run further scans.
JANEWAY: No time. The wormhole might destabilize.
SEVEN: The Doctor often instructs me to look before I leap. It is an antiquated adage, but I believe it is relevant.
JANEWAY: I have another one for you. He who hesitates is lost.
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: I thin we're avoiding the real issue here, Seven. You're still feeling uncomfortable about returning to the Alpha Quadrant. It's nothing to be ashamed of. Trust me, you're going to thrive on Earth, just as you've thrived on Voyager. Yes?
CHAKOTAY: Letter number two. I'm getting jealous.
JANEWAY: Mark. Apparently his engagement was broken off. What about you, any news?
CHAKOTAY: A full pardon and reinstatement to Starfleet. I've even been offered a professorship in anthropology at the Academy.
JANEWAY: Oh, Chakotay, congratulations, but it's not fair.
CHAKOTAY: Don't worry, it's only part time.
JANEWAY: How can I be expected to manage the ship without you?
CHAKOTAY: You'll do fine.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Computer, access all logs entries recorded by Captain Janeway on Stardate 52542.
COMPUTER: Access to those files is restricted.
COMPUTER: Access granted.
SEVEN: Play first log entry.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 52542.3. Long range sensors have identified a wormhole leading to the Alpha quadrant. Unfortunately, secondary scans have revealed that it's some kind of elaborate deception. The question is, who's attempting to deceive us and why?
SEVEN: Play next log entry.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We've begun to receive faint telemetry from our probe. I don't want to get the crew's hopes up but B'Elanna thinks it may be a message from Starfleet. I'm beginning to wonder if my earlier skepticism was justified.
SEVEN: Play next log entry.
JANEWAY (screen): Captain's Log, supplemental. I've set a course for the wormhole. With any luck, we should be back in the Alpha Quadrant in a matter of days.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Annika? Annika Hansen.
SEVEN: There is no one here by that name.
NEELIX: Are you sure, because I have a letter here addressed to her. I never realized you knew anyone from the Alpha Quadrant.
SEVEN: I don't.
NEELIX: Well, it looks like someone knows you. Who's it from?
SEVEN: Claudia Hansen. She claims to be a sister of my father.
NEELIX: Your aunt.
SEVEN: She is looking forward to meeting me.
NEELIX: That's great. Starfleet's appointed me Ambassador to the Lan'Tuana sector.
SEVEN: Ambassador?
NEELIX: I guess they thought I'd have a flair for quadrupeds.

[Mess hall]
SEVEN: Ensign, I require a moment of your time.
PARIS: Sure.
SEVEN: Have you noticed anything unusual about the crew's behavior since we returned?
PARIS: Like?
SEVEN: When I presented the Captain with evidence that the wormhole may not be what it appears to be, she seemed unconcerned.
PARIS: Really? That doesn't sound like her.
SEVEN: I believe the crew is being deceived by false telemetry as well as overly-optimistic correspondence.
PARIS: The letters from home? I got one, too.
SEVEN: No doubt containing good news.
PARIS: Oh, I'll say. An old buddy of mine offered me a spot at the new test flight center in Australia. Beautiful beaches, a chance to pilot the latest experimental ships. I can't believe it.
SEVEN: Then you doubt the veracity of the letters as well.
PARIS: Are you kidding? I've already written back and accepted the job.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: Computer, activate the EMH.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
SEVEN: The wormhole is not what it appears to be. I believe that the crew is being
EMH: Hold on. Wormhole?
SEVEN: You weren't informed.
EMH: Not a peep.
SEVEN: Considering everyone's recent behavior, that's not surprising. Since the discovery of this wormhole the crew has ignored obvious signs that it's a deception. You must determine if there is a physiological explanation.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Seven of Nine to the bridge.
SEVEN: On my way.
EMH: I'll call in a few crewmen for routine examinations. That should allow me to run the necessary diagnostics.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We've just entered visual range. I thought you'd like to take a look. We're starting to get images from the other side.
TUVOK: There is considerable interference.
KIM: I think I can help clear it up. Try it now.
CHAKOTAY: How long until we reach the wormhole?
PARIS: Fifty three minutes.
JANEWAY: Maintain course.
CHAKOTAY: All hands, this is the bridge. Secure all systems.
JANEWAY: When we reach Earth's orbit, lay in a descent trajectory. North American continent. Starfleet Headquarters.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Computer, perform a gravimetric scan of the wormhole's interior. Look for inconsistencies in the spatial gradient.
COMPUTER: The anomaly is consistent with a Class one wormhole. No irregularities detected.
SEVEN: Recalibrate sensors and try again.
COMPUTER: No irregularities detected.
SEVEN: Isolate grid nine two five and magnify. Computer, is that a vessel in grid ninety one?
COMPUTER: No vessel has been detected.
SEVEN: Open a comm. channel.
COMPUTER: Channel open.
SEVEN: Alien vessel, this is the starship Voyager. Respond. Alien vessel.
QATAI (screen): Who are you?
SEVEN: Seven of Nine, Federation starship Voyager. Our ship is on an intercept course three point four light years from your position.
QATAI (screen): Turn around, you're being deceived.
SEVEN: How.
QATAI (screen): He knows what you want.
SEVEN: Computer, identify the cause of the power failure.
TUVOK: Captain's orders. Power from Astrometrics has been rerouted to the navigational array, at least until we've completed our journey through the wormhole.
SEVEN: I've made contact with a vessel inside the anomaly.
TUVOK: Starfleet?
SEVEN: Alien. The pilot attempted to warn us away.
TUVOK: Sensors show no record of an incoming transmission.
SEVEN: The sensors are malfunctioning. He said we were being deceived. The wormhole is not what it appears to be.
TUVOK: The preponderance of data suggests otherwise.
SEVEN: The data is flawed.
TUVOK: As is your reasoning.
SEVEN: May I ask you a personal question? Are you looking forward to seeing your wife and family?
TUVOK: Indeed.
SEVEN: And is that desire stronger than you expected it to be?
TUVOK: Your point.
SEVEN: I believe you are being manipulated. Someone or something is compromising your logic, otherwise you would be willing to listen to my concerns.
TUVOK: Access to the Astrometrics lab is restricted until further notice. Dismissed.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman. Your presence here is unauthorized. State your intentions.
NAOMI: I'm hiding.
SEVEN: From whom?
NAOMI: Everyone. They're all acting strange. Even Mom.
SEVEN: Elaborate.
NAOMI: She keeps smiling all the time, talking about Earth like it's the greatest place in the universe.
SEVEN: You do not share your mother's desire to return to Earth?
NAOMI: Voyager's my home. If we go to Earth, I'll have to leave the ship. I'd miss my room, Neelix. You and I wouldn't be able to play Kadis-kot anymore.
SEVEN: Curious. You and I appear to be the only ones not affected.
NAOMI: Affected by what?
SEVEN: I am not certain. Stay here until I return.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: Computer, activate EMH.
PARIS: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
SEVEN: Where's the Doctor?
PARIS: Offline.
SEVEN: Why?
PARIS: Starfleet orders. Something about the wormhole interfering with the holographic systems. They didn't want to damage his program.
SEVEN: He must be reactivated.
PARIS: No can do. Not until we're on the other side.
SEVEN: It's urgent.
PARIS: Believe it or not, I am capable of handling almost any medical problem you might have.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: I was just coming to see you.
SEVEN: Why?
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid I have some troubling news. Evidently, our wormhole passes through a layer of subspace monitored by the Borg. Starfleet's concerned that your neural transceiver might attract some unwanted attention. We need to deactivate your implants.
SEVEN: You should not attempt to do so without the Doctor's supervision.
CHAKOTAY: Unfortunately, he's offline.
SEVEN: Then the procedure is inadvisable.
CHAKOTAY: Try to relax. We're only going to keep you in stasis until we've reached the Alpha Quadrant. I realize the prospect of returning to Earth is frightening to you. It's perfectly natural for you to resist the unknown. But you're in good hands. Resistance is futile.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What's our distance, Tom?
PARIS: Two thousand kilometers and closing. Goodbye, Delta Quadrant.
KIM: No more Hirogen hunting parties, Malon garbage scows.
PARIS: By this time tomorrow it'll be Cardassians, Romulans, Ferengi.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I've spoken to Seven of Nine. We're putting her into stasis.
JANEWAY: Make it fast. We don't want the Borg to crash our welcome home party.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: I need to adjust my regeneration parameters. How long will I remain inactive?
CHAKOTAY: A couple of hours to be on the safe side.
CHAKOTAY: Security alert!
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Security's on their way, Chakotay. What happened?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Seven's trapped us behind some kind of Borg forcefield.
JANEWAY: Try to disable it.

[Cargo Bay two]
CHAKOTAY: Naomi, go back to your quarters.
SEVEN: Pay attention to me. If this indicator begins to flash enter the following series of commands. Watch carefully.
CHAKOTAY: Naomi.
SEVEN: Do you understand?
NAOMI: Yes.
CHAKOTAY: Naomi, I'm giving you a direct order. Step away from the console.

[Bridge]
KIM: She's blocking my commands.
JANEWAY: Keep trying.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Computer, lock onto my coordinates and initiate a site to site transport. Main Engineering.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Seven?
SEVEN: I'm sorry.

[Bridge]
KIM: We've got phaser fire in Engineering.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Security.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: Computer, erect a level ten forcefield around Engineering. Lock out the command controls of Borg encryption code two nine four.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Seven's tapping into the engine manifold. She's trying to shut down impulse drive.

[Engineering]
TUVOK: Bridge, she has erected another forcefield. It'll require

[Bridge]
TUVOK (voiceover): Several minutes to deactivate it.
JANEWAY: Where is she, exactly?
KIM: Engineering console sixteen beta. Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm sending an EM surge to that station. Seven's going into stasis whether she likes it or not.

[Engineering]
TUVOK: She's down, Captain.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Captain, we're at the threshold.
JANEWAY: Take us in.
JANEWAY: Report?
PARIS: It's just spatial turbulence.
JANEWAY: It's beautiful. Steady as she goes.(Neelix sees Starfleet Admirals in a corridor, smiling and waiting to shake hands with him. Janeway, Kim and Paris see Earth turning beneath the ship. In reality, there is nothing there except a giant tunnel with energy playing around it. Everyone is unconscious. Tuvok dreams that he is meeting his wife, T'Pel, in a corridor

[Engineering]
NAOMI: Seven, wake up. Seven of Nine, wake up! Forcefield?
SEVEN: You are damaged.
NAOMI: It's just a scrape.
SEVEN: The crew?
NAOMI: Unconscious, sort of.
SEVEN: Our hull is demolecularising.
NAOMI: Do wormholes do that?
SEVEN: No, they don't. Return to your quarters while I assess the situation.
NAOMI: But I can help. My mom says two heads are better than one. Isn't that the Borg philosophy too?
SEVEN: Simplistic, but accurate.
NAOMI: Please, I don't want to be alone.

[Corridor]
NAOMI: Neelix! Oh, Neelix.
SEVEN: He will survive.
NAOMI: Neelix.
SEVEN: We must keep moving. Naomi Wildman. We will return for him.
NAOMI: I don't think that's Earth.
SEVEN: No.
NAOMI: So where are we?

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I've restored partial systems. I'm reading organic compounds, bioplasmic discharges, a vast network of neural pathways.
NAOMI: Is it a lifeform?
SEVEN: If it is, it's the largest I've seen. Over two thousand kilometers in diameter.
NAOMI: What are you doing?
SEVEN: My earlier scans revealed a vessel. I'm trying to find it again.
NAOMI: Somebody else is stuck here?
SEVEN: Possibly. There. It's heavily damaged but still functioning. Alien vessel, respond.

[Qatai's ship]
SEVEN (voiceover): This is the starship Voyager. Please respond.
QATAI: I told you to stay away. Why didn't you listen?
SEVEN (screen): Our crew believed they were returning to their homes.

[Astrometrics lab]
QATAI (screen): Everything they've always wanted, correct?
SEVEN: Yes.
QATAI (screen): He deceived them.
NAOMI: He?
SEVEN: I believe we should work together to escape this anomaly. Lower your shields and I'll beam you aboard.
QATAI (screen): Shields are the only things holding my ship together. I'd be destroyed.
SEVEN: I will enhance your shield emitters.
QATAI (screen): You won't fool me that easily.
SEVEN: I assure you we are not a deception.
QATAI (screen): Oh, how convenient, an enormous starship comes to my rescue. You might try a more subtle approach.
SEVEN: My scans indicate that your shields will fail in approximately fifteen minutes. Join us, or you can remain on your vessel secure in the knowledge that you were not deceived. But that knowledge will do you little good when you are dead. Decide now.
QATAI (screen): All right. All right, I'm taking my shields down.
NAOMI: Ow!
QATAI: You look real enough. But over the years, he's made me believe many things are real. A fortune at my fingertips, good friends risen from the dead.
SEVEN: You're referring to the anomaly we've entered.
QATAI: Anomaly? It's a beast! Cunning, deadly.
SEVEN: What does it want?
QATAI: You. Your ship. Antimatter, biomatter. He consumes it.
SEVEN: Everyone believed it was a wormhole.
QATAI: Telepathy. Psychogenic manipulation. He senses your thoughts, your desires, and then he preys on them.
NAOMI: Like a pitcher plant.
QATAI: Pitcher plant?
NAOMI: The Doctor taught me about it in botany class. It catches insects by mimicking pheromones.
QATAI: Yes, you're right, but this one doesn't eat insects. He eats starships.
SEVEN: You are familiar with this lifeform.
QATAI: Familiar? I've been hunting it for nearly forty years.
SEVEN: And have you become impervious to its telepathy?
QATAI: Almost, but there are days when he can still trick me. Like yesterday. I thought I had found a way to kill him once and for all. I'd allow him to begin consuming my ship and then I'd fly directly to his most vulnerable system, his primary neural plexus. Boom! I'd destroy him from the inside out. But he knew. He showed me what I wanted to see. I was nowhere near his neural plexus. I was flying directly into his digestion chamber. And speaking of digestion.
NAOMI: How do we get out of the monster?
SEVEN: It's not a monster, it's a bioplasmic organism, and we will find a way out.
QATAI: No, the girl's right. He's a monster, and the only way out is to destroy him.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
QATAI: Your ship is being devoured. I'd say that's an emergency.
NAOMI: The monster ate his ship, too.
EMH: Monster?
QATAI: I want to see your weapons manifest.
EMH: Weapons? This is a Sickbay, not an arsenal. What's going on?
SEVEN: Voyager has been lured into the digestive chamber of a bioplasmic organism. We require your assistance in charting an escape route.
EMH: Slow down. The last thing I remember I was speaking to Mister Paris. He said the wormhole posed a threat to my program.
QATAI: The beast has been manipulating your crew. The moment he realized you were beginning to suspect something, he made sure you were deactivated.
EMH: And who might you be, the local monster expert?
QATAI: As a matter of fact I am. He's been fooling you for days, creating false sensor readings, and he's been altering your crew's thought patterns. A little neurogenic telepathy to make them lower their guard.
EMH: That might explain the heightened dopamine levels I found during my routine examinations of the crew. Have you informed the Captain?
NAOMI: She's asleep.
EMH: Asleep?
SEVEN: It's our proximity to the creature. The neurogenic field is stronger here. It's already rendered most of the crew unconscious. Does your vessel's database contain information on the creature's anatomy?
QATAI: Of course.
SEVEN: Retrieve it.
EMH: In the meantime, let's work on a wake-up call for the crew.
EMH: Computer, increase neurotransmitter levels by twenty nine percent.
QATAI: A cortical inhibitor?
EMH: I thought it might disrupt the organism's hold on her.
QATAI: It won't. I already tried a similar procedure.
EMH: I don't remember asking for a second opinion. It's working. She's regaining consciousness.
TORRES: Doctor?
EMH: You're being exposed to a powerful neurogenic field. You've been unconscious for several hours.
TORRES: They're here.
EMH: Who?
TORRES: The Maquis, they're alive!
EMH: B'Elanna, you're still on Voyager. You're hallucinating.
TORRES: Starfleet thinks you've all been killed.
EMH: Computer, increase neurotransmitter levels by another ten percent. B'Elanna, focus on my voice.
QATAI: She doesn't want to.
QATAI: They never want to.

[Medical lab]
QATAI: It's the silence I hate. The way he takes you without a fight. It was the same way with the Nokaro. A crew of nearly three thousand. Families mostly, mine included, looking for a New World to settle. But they came across our friend here and he showed them what they wanted to see. A glistening green paradise. By the time I responded to their distress call, all that was left of them was some fading engine emissions. That was thirty nine years ago. Thirty nine years, two weeks, four days.
EMH: Do you mind? The situation is dismal enough.
QATAI: I'm just trying to explain who we're up against.
EMH: Well, I'm getting a pretty good idea on my own. Judging by these bioscans, the organism's been devouring life forms for a bit longer than thirty nine years. I'd estimate it's at least two hundred thousand years old.
QATAI: The intelligent always survive.
EMH: I wouldn't go that far. It appears to operate on highly evolved instinct. I haven't detected any signs of sentience.
QATAI: Oh he's intelligent, all right. Smart enough to fool your crew into taking you offline.
EMH: No need to get personal.

[Sickbay]
NAOMI: Seven?
SEVEN: I'm here.
NAOMI: Are we still inside the monster?
SEVEN: Yes, but we are going to find a way out.
QATAI (voiceover): There. This is it. Exactly what we need.

[Medical lab]
QATATI: These class nine torpedoes in your weapons manifest. If we can bring your vessel deeper into the creature's digestive tract and detonate one of these charges, we might be able to destroy it.
EMH: Starfleet's not in the habit of killing lifeforms.
QATAI: Even if that lifeform is about to kill you?
EMH: If I could take a few hours to examine the creature more thoroughly
SEVEN: There is no time.
QATAI: We kill him!
EMH: Maybe there's another way.
SEVEN: Explain.
EMH: Any living organism, no matter how large, will attempt to expel a foreign body. If we could just make Voyager a little less tasty?
SEVEN: My scans indicate that your weapons are tetryon based. If you were to fire one at a pocket of antimatter released from our warp core, it would produce an electrolytic reaction.
NAOMI: Would that make Voyager taste bad?
QATAI: It might at that.

[Transporter room]
EMH: Once I've beamed you back to your ship, try adjusting your shields to this frequency. You'll find them more resistant to the bioplasmic discharges.
QATAI: You seem to know a little about everything. Medicine, exobiology, shield harmonics.
EMH: I'm something of a renaissance EMH.
QATAI: I could use a crewmate like you. The beast would have a difficult time manipulating a hologram's desires.
EMH: An Ishmael to your Ahab? No, thank you.
QATAI: You're turning down the hunt of a lifetime?
EMH: As appealing as that sounds, I'm a Doctor, not a dragon slayer. My program requires that I do no harm.
QATAI: Shame.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: Qatai's vessel is ready.
EMH: I've rerouted bridge controls to Engineering. Ops, tactical, helm, all integrated into one station.
SEVEN: Efficient.
EMH: I thought you'd like it.
SEVEN: I'm plotting a course for the organism's oesophageal aperture. Prepare to release the antimatter. Hull integrity's dropped another thirteen percent. Doctor?
EMH: Ready on my end.
SEVEN: Voyager to Qatai. Prepare to fire.

[Qatai's ship]
QATAI: Wait, wait. No, no, no, no, no.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: What's wrong?
QATAI (voiceover): That last jolt

[Qatai's ship]
QATAI: Must have destabilized my targeting sensor.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: I could establish an interface to Voyager's targeting array.
QATAI (voiceover): Don't bother. I know my ship. It's just being stubborn.

[Qatai's ship]
QATAI: Ready.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: Initiate the burst on my mark. Now.

[Qatai's ship]
QATAI: Like the taste of that?

[Engineering]
EMH: I'm reading violent contractions throughout the digestive chamber. It's working. We're moving back through the oesophageal aperture!
SEVEN: Voyager has been expelled. We're three point nine kilometers from the organism.
EMH: After just one burst? For a big fellow he certainly has a low tolerance for tummy ache.
SEVEN: Qatai's vessel was also released.
EMH: Hail him.
QATAI (screen): Why haven't you ejected a second burst?
SEVEN: We've cleared the organism.
QATAI (screen): You've been deceived. We're both still inside it.
EMH: He's right. I'm reading bioplasmic energy.
SEVEN: I am impervious to the creature's influence.
EMH: You were impervious, when it was creating the illusion of Voyager getting home, because you didn't share that desire. But now we're trying to escape, which is what you want.
QATAI (screen): Think about it. He's showing you exactly what you want to see.
EMH: Seven!
SEVEN: Initiate another antimatter burst. Now. Fire.
QATAI (screen): We're out.
SEVEN: Are we certain?
EMH: No sign of bioplasmic energy. We've escaped.
SEVEN: I'm taking us out of range. Maximum warp.
EMH: I'd better see to the crew.
QATAI (screen): Well, I'll be on my way. Thanks for your help.
SEVEN: Your engines have taken heavy damage. You require our assistance.
QATAI (screen): No time. The beast is already altering course. I'll handle repairs myself.
SEVEN: The procedure would take several days.
QATAI (screen): Don't worry about me. Just get your ship home. And watch out for pitcher plants.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Location?
PARIS: We're still in the Delta Quadrant.
JANEWAY: Scan the wormhole. Find out what went wrong.
PARIS: It's gone. I can't find it on sensors.
KIM: Captain, bridge controls have been routed to Engineering. Ops, tactical, helm, all of it.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering.
SEVEN (voiceover): Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Seven? What's going on?

[Engineering]
SEVEN: The Doctor will explain. I will file a complete report in the morning, after I have regenerated. Captain's log, 52542.3. we've deployed a series of beacons to warn other vessels about the bioplasmic creature and resumed a course for home. Our real home.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: Don't worry. My presence here is authorized.
SEVEN: By whom?
NAOMI: Mom. She thinks I need to learn more about Earth.
SEVEN: I see. And does studying this image increase your desire to go there?
NAOMI: Not really.
SEVEN: I concur. It is unremarkable.
NAOMI: But my mom likes it, and even Neelix can't wait to get there, so I guess it can't be that bad.
SEVEN: Given this crew's determination to return home, I have no doubt we will see it for ourselves someday.

[Borg Probe Vessel]
BORG (voiceover): A vessel has been detected. Unimatrix four two four grid one one six. Activate. Alter course to intercept.
BORG (voiceover): Vessel identified. Federation Starfleet, Intrepid Class, one hundred forty three lifeforms. Prepare for assimilation. We are the Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
JANEWAY (screen): Break off your pursuit or we'll open fire.
BORG (voiceover): Irrelevant.
JANEWAY (screen): Is it? You've scanned our vessel. You know we can match your firepower.
BORG (voiceover): You will be assimilated.
BORG (voiceover): Regenerate primary shield matrix. Remodulate weapons.
BORG (voiceover): Security breach. Starfleet photon torpedo. Disarm weapon.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: I thought we were trying to disable it.
SEVEN: The torpedo detonated near the power matrix. It caused a chain reaction.
JANEWAY: Survivors?.
TUVOK: None.
JANEWAY: Debris status.
KIM: There's a few components intact, but they're badly damaged.
JANEWAY: Begin a salvage operation.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: There might be something we can use. Weapons, a transwarp coil. I don't know about the rest of you, but I feel lucky today.

[Cargo Bay two]
JANEWAY: Now, this is how I prefer the Borg. In pieces.
CHAKOTAY: Eight kilotons of debris, most of it hull fragments. So far we've recovered two power nodes and a dozen plasma conduits, all in working order.
JANEWAY: Their propulsion system, anything left?
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna found a transwarp coil.
JANEWAY: It's lighter than I expected. It must be some kind of polytrinic alloy. Let's hope our little skirmish got back to the hive mind. Maybe they'll think twice before they attack us again.
CHAKOTAY: It was only a probe. Next time, we might not be so lucky.
KIM: Captain, don't touch that.
JANEWAY: What is it?
KIM: I don't know, but a few minutes ago it was crawling around the floor. I think it's some kind of auto-regeneration unit.
JANEWAY: Thanks for the warning. By my count, we've added at least two years to our journey by avoiding the Borg. I'm tired of turning tail every time we detect a Cube.
CHAKOTAY: Better safe than assimilated,
JANEWAY: Mmm.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe I should go to red alert and get it over with.
JANEWAY: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: You're about to drop one of your bombshells.
JANEWAY: Now what makes you say that?
CHAKOTAY: The way you fiddle with your com. badge. You do it every time.
JANEWAY: Well, I'll have to keep an eye on that.
EMH: Eureka! I was hoping to find one of these. It's a servo-armature from a medical repair drone. Laser scalpel, biomolecular scanner, micro-suture, all rolled into one instrument.
PARIS: No Federation Sickbay should be without one.
EMH: This could revolutionize the way that I perform surgery.
JANEWAY: Excellent. Why don't you deactivate it for now?
TORRES: Remodulate the coil frequency.
SEVEN: No effect.
TORRES: Try again.
SEVEN: The field regulator is fused.
CHAKOTAY: What seems to be the problem?
TORRES: We can't activate the transwarp coil.
SEVEN: When a Borg vessel is critically damaged, all of its vital technology self-destructs. The coil is beyond repair.
CHAKOTAY: At least the Doctor found a new toy.
SEVEN: Captain. Datanodes. One of them is a drone manifest, the other contains tactical information.
CHAKOTAY: Specifically?
SEVEN: Long range sensor telemetry, assimilation logistics and vessel movements for a radius of thirty light years.
JANEWAY: Well, let's take a look.
SEVEN: I'll need to convert the information to Starfleet parameters.
JANEWAY: Time?
SEVEN: Two hours.
JANEWAY: Do it.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: After nine hours staring at that debris, I was beginning to feel like a drone.
KIM: I could use a shower.
PARIS: Do Borg shower? Neelix, we need a couple of beers.
NEELIX: Name your malt.
PARIS: Ktarian. Replicate a pint for yourself, because we're going to toast the man of the hour.
NEELIX: Oh?
PARIS: It was Harry's idea to beam over a photon torpedo while they were remodulating their shields.
KIM: I didn't think they'd fall for it.
PARIS: Ah, but they did. Hook, line and sinker. Oh, I would have loved to have seen the look on their faces. Boom!
KIM: To be honest, I wish the boom had been a bit smaller. We were only trying to disable them.
PARIS: They were drones, Harry. Mindless automatons. We did them a favor.
KIM: Seven.
PARIS: Look, I didn't mean anything by that.
SEVEN: Your apology is irrelevant. It is impossible to offend a mindless drone.
PARIS: Cheers.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I was able to recover sixty two percent of the data. This is an isogrid of Borg tactical movements across twenty five sectors.
JANEWAY: Are there any dangers along our present course?
SEVEN: There are three Cubes approximately nine light years away, traveling on a trajectory parallel to our own. They do not pose a threat.
JANEWAY: What about that vessel?
SEVEN: It's a scout ship, eight light years away, traveling at warp two. The ship is heavily damaged.
TUVOK: Was it attacked?
SEVEN: No. An ion storm. The Sphere is presently regenerating. That explains why it is traveling at low warp.
JANEWAY: Limping home.
SEVEN: In a manner of speaking.
JANEWAY: I want a detailed schematic of this vessel, down to the power distribution nodes. I think we've just struck gold.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: So what we have here in two simple words is, Fort Knox.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: Tom, translate?
PARIS: Fort Knox. The largest repository of gold bullion in Earth's history. Over fifty metric tons worth over nine trillion U.S. dollars.
JANEWAY: Keep going.
PARIS: Well, er, when the new world economy took shape in the late twenty second century and money went the way of the dinosaur, Fort Knox was turned into a museum.
JANEWAY: And no one ever managed to break into that facility, right?
PARIS: Well, a couple of Ferengi tried about ten years ago, but other than that, it's considered impenetrable.
CHAKOTAY: Are you planning a heist?
JANEWAY: As a matter of fact. Except we're not chasing gold. We're going to steal a transwarp coil. Think it might come in handy?
TORRES: If I could equip our engines with even one coil, we could shave about twenty years off this trip.
TUVOK: Do you believe the Borg sphere is damaged enough for us to penetrate its defenses?
JANEWAY: Long enough to take what we want and get out in one piece. but we'd have to plan this operation down to the millisecond. There would be no margin for error. As I see it, we plan an intercept course that won't attract their attention, then create a diversion to keep them occupied so we can send in an away team to obtain the technology.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like to see the data on that Sphere. We might be able to recreate parts of it on the holodeck, run a few tactical simulations.
JANEWAY: It's all yours.
TORRES: We need to mask our warp signature. I've got a few Maquis tricks up my sleeve. They're not exactly Starfleet approved, but.
JANEWAY: This is no time for protocol. Get started. The sphere is three days away by maximum warp. Set a course. Chakotay, I want an outline for our heist by tomorrow morning. We've proven ourselves against the Borg once before, twice before, but we're always the ones under attack. I think it's time to do a little assimilating of our own, hmm? Dismissed.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: I was hoping you'd be a little more vocal. Any thoughts?
SEVEN: Your plan is ambitious. There are many variables. But it can succeed.
JANEWAY: I'd like to narrow that list of variables. I was hoping your parents might provide us with a few insights. I've been looking over the records we found on the U.S.S. Raven. Your parents kept extensive field notes, detailed journals. There are over nine thousand log entries alone.
SEVEN: The information is irrelevant.
JANEWAY: On the contrary, Seven. They spent their careers studying the Borg. They tracked a cube at close range for what, two years?
SEVEN: Three.
JANEWAY: Well, I'd say that made them experts. I want you to study their research. Look for any data that might give us a tactical edge.
SEVEN: My parents were assimilated. Obviously their tactics were flawed.
JANEWAY: Look, these records have been collecting dust in our database for over a year. You say they're irrelevant, and I say you've been avoiding them. You're the best person for the job, but I'll assign it to Chakotay if I
SEVEN: No. The information belongs to me. I will read it.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: You're late.
NEELIX: Sorry. It took longer than I expected to download these records. This is only the first batch. Your parents sure had a lot to say. I organized the information by category. Field notes, personal logs, biokinetic analyzes. I don't mean to pry, but is it true your parents were studying the Borg?
SEVEN: Yes. The Hansens were exobiologists.
NEELIX: Fascinating. They must have been very courageous.
SEVEN: They were misguided.
NEELIX: A faded holo-image. That's all I've got left of my family. A picture of my sister. Except, of course, what I keep in here. What I wouldn't give for a treasure trove like this. Well, I'd better get started on the rest of those files.
MAGNUS (voiceover): Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, Stardate 32611.4. It's about time. The Federation Council on Exobiology has given us final approval. Starfleet's still concerned about security issues but they've agreed not to stand in our way. We've said our goodbyes, and we're ready to start chasing our theories about the Borg.

[Annika's room]
ANNIKA: Zoom, zoom.
MAGNUS: Ah, ah, ah, put down the cube, Muffin. It's not a toy.
ANNIKA: I won't crash it.
MAGNUS: Come here, Daddy wants to talk to you. Now, remember when I said that you, me and Mommy were going on a very long voyage?
ANNIKA: Ah ha.
MAGNUS: Well, we're leaving tomorrow and we won't see Earth for quite a while.
ANNIKA: Are we going to see the Borg?
MAGNUS: If we're lucky.
ANNIKA: Do the Borg have kids, too?
MAGNUS: Nobody knows. We'll be the first humans to study them up close.
ANNIKA: What do they look like?
MAGNUS: We're not sure exactly, but we think they might look a lot like us, but with technology inside their bodies.
ANNIKA: Cy-ber-netic?
MAGNUS: Mmm hmm.
ANNIKA: Are they friendly?
MAGNUS: Well, they're different. They don't talk like us, or even think like us, but we're hoping to make friends one day.
ANNIKA: I hope so, too, Daddy.
MAGNUS (voiceover): Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, Stardate 32623.5 we've been tracking stray readings for nearly eight months now, but there's still no sign of a vessel. I'm beginning to wonder if the Borg are nothing more than rumor and sensor echoes.

[USS Raven - Bridge]
ERIN: Magnus.
MAGNUS: We have to keep moving. If we take the replicators offline and run environmental systems at half power, we can go another twenty light years before refueling.
ERIN: We should refuel now. The nearest dilithium is in an asteroid field just ten days from here.
MAGNUS: That's ten days we can't afford to lose. We're getting close. If we stop now, we might as well just turn around and go home.
ERIN: Home, to what? We have deviated from our flight plan, crossed the Neutral Zone, disobeyed a direct order to return. Our colleagues obviously think we are insane. We have burned our bridges, Magnus.
ANNIKA: I can't sleep.
MAGNUS: Come here. Why can't Annika sleep? The greatest scientific mystery of our time.
ERIN: I have a hypothesis. Her noisy parents are keeping her up.
MAGNUS: Hmm. Sounds plausible.
ERIN: Tri-quantum waves, six hundred thousand kilometers off the port bow.
MAGNUS: Subspace disruptions, field magnitude two point nine teracochranes and rising. Annika, bed.
ERIN: Power utilization curve is highly symmetric.
MAGNUS: Artificial source probability point nine eight. Now. It's got to be a transwarp conduit. Nothing else could generate these readings. I'm taking us closer.
ERIN: It's a Borg Cube, two thousand kilometers starboard.
MAGNUS: I've got a visual.
ERIN: It's massive. Twenty eight cubic kilometers, hundred and twenty nine thousand lifeforms on board. We're being scanned. They haven't altered course.
MAGNUS: This could prove our theory. They ignore any lifeform until they consider it a threat, or a target. They're moving off.
ERIN: Let's match their course and speed. Keep a distance of five million kilometers.

[Cargo Bay two]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Seven of Nine to the bridge.
SEVEN: On my way.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Have we been detected?
KIM: No, ma'am.
TUVOK: I have a visual.
JANEWAY: On screen. Magnify.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like they took a real beating.
JANEWAY: They could still pose a threat. Let's not get too close. Match their course and speed. Keep a distance of ten million kilometers.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Seven, scan the vessel. I want to know their current status.
SEVEN: Their weapons array is regenerating, but shields and transwarp drive are still offline.
JANEWAY: How long until they have transwarp?
SEVEN: Approximately seventy two hours.
JANEWAY: We may not get this opportunity again, and I don't intend to miss it. Whatever it takes, double shifts, round the clock simulations, I want to be ready.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to away teams. You're six seconds behind schedule.

[Borg Sphere]
TUVOK: We are at the shield matrix. Stand by.
KIM: The primary shield generator. I've got it.
TUVOK: Spatial charges. Here, there and there.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: You've got fifty five seconds.

[Borg Sphere]
TUVOK: Tuvok to Janeway. Charges set. We're returning to the transport coordinates.
SEVEN: The transwarp coil is offline.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, now.
TUVOK: Activate the charges.
JANEWAY: Bridge, their shields are down. Energize.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Tom?
PARIS: I've got a lock.

[Borg Sphere]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Target obtained.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: You're out of time.

[Borg Sphere]
JANEWAY: They've adapted. This way. Seven!
TUVOK: Bridge, stand by for transport.
KIM: Hurry!
TUVOK: Energize.

[Bridge]
PARIS: I've got them. Transporter room one.
CHAKOTAY: Beam them out of here.
PARIS: I can't get a lock. They've adapted to our transport frequencies.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, freeze program, both holodecks. What happened?
PARIS: They tapped into our transporter beam.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to holodeck two. We got the transwarp coil

[Holodeck - Transporter room]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): But we also picked up some uninvited guests.
JANEWAY: What was our time?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Two minutes twelve seconds.
JANEWAY: Twelve seconds too late. Once we disable their sensor grid we only have two minutes until it regenerates.

[Holodeck - Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Did you run into any problems?

[Holodeck - Transporter room]
TUVOK: None.
SEVEN: We were efficient.
KIM: What if we beam directly into the transwarp chamber?
JANEWAY: There's too much shielding.
TUVOK: Perhaps we could modify our transporters?
JANEWAY: I've already explored that option. It won't work.
KIM: Twelve seconds. Might as well be an eternity.
SEVEN: The Hansens. They were able to remain inside a Borg cube for several hours without being detected.
KIM: How?
SEVEN: I'm not certain.
JANEWAY: Well, keep investigating.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: We've run enough simulations for one day. Let's work on refining our tactics, anything we can do to shave a few more seconds off our little heist. Computer, end program.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: I don't know about you but I'm glad to be back on Voyager. Borg vessels make my skin crawl.
SEVEN: It was a holodeck recreation.
JANEWAY: Close enough. We just spent the last three hours dodging drones. It didn't bother you?
SEVEN: Your point.
JANEWAY: You seemed a little nervous in there.
SEVEN: The last time I was on a Borg vessel, I was a drone. The recreation was unsettling.
JANEWAY: You were reluctant to look at your parents' research and now I sense you're a little reluctant to go on this mission. Maybe I'm pushing you too fast.
SEVEN: I'll adapt.
JANEWAY: It's easier said than done. It's been over two years since you came face to face with the Collective. Are you sure you're up to it? I need everybody working at peak efficiency.
SEVEN: You doubt my ability to function.
JANEWAY: No, I'm simply voicing my concerns.
SEVEN: They are unjustified.
JANEWAY: I hope so, because the next time we won't be on the holodeck.
SEVEN: Understood.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: I had a bad dream. Can I stay with you for a while?
SEVEN: Where is your mother?
NAOMI: She's working in Engineering, and Neelix is on a duty shift. Please? I won't bother you.
SEVEN: Very well.
NAOMI: It looked just like this.
SEVEN: What did?
NAOMI: In my dream. There was Borg stuff everywhere.
SEVEN: Elaborate.
NAOMI: I went on the mission. The one my Mom told me about, the Borg Sphere? But it didn't work. Everybody got assimilated.
SEVEN: Nightmares are caused by irrational fear. They're not real. They can't damage you. Try to ignore it.
NAOMI: Mom said we're going to steal something.
SEVEN: A transwarp coil.
NAOMI: Will you be on the Sphere?
SEVEN: Yes.
NAOMI: Are you scared?
SEVEN: We will succeed.
NAOMI: But what if you don't? What if they make you a drone again?
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman, you agreed not to bother me.
NAOMI: What's it like to be a drone? Does it hurt?
SEVEN: You will terminate this line of questioning.
NAOMI: Do the Borg have kids? What do they look like? Are they friendly?
SEVEN: Return to your quarters immediately.
NAOMI: Resistance is futile.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Security. Intruder alert.
QUEEN (voiceover): They can't hear you.
SEVEN: Who are you?
QUEEN (voiceover): I am the Borg. Seven of Nine, tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix zero one, you've become weak.
SEVEN: This is a dream. I'm regenerating.
QUEEN (voiceover): It's not a dream. We've accessed your neural transceiver. Our thoughts are one. We know about Voyager's plan to invade the Sphere. It will fail.
SEVEN: If that's true, then why haven't you assimilated them?
QUEEN (voiceover): We've come to make you an offer. Rejoin the Collective and we'll spare Voyager.
SEVEN: Why me?
QUEEN (voiceover): Because you are unique.
MAGNUS (voiceover): Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, Stardate 32629.4 after three months of tracking our Borg cube, the vessel entered a transwarp conduit. We followed in its wake. Our sensors tell us we've traveled all the way to the Delta quadrant, the Borg's native territory.

[USS Raven - Bridge]
ERIN: Magnus, you're breaking up.
MAGNUS (screen): Just some bio-electric interference. Stand by. Is that better?
ERIN: Much. How's Junior?

[Borg Cube]
MAGNUS: He took a real beating when that plasma conduit blew out. He's regenerating. Wait a minute, something's happening. Bill and Needle Fingers just arrived. This is odd. They're making repairs to Junior.

[USS Raven - Bridge]
ERIN: I thought drones from different subunits didn't interact.
MAGNUS (voiceover): Looks like we were wrong.

[Borg Cube]
MAGNUS: They deactivated him.
ERIN (voiceover): Why?
MAGNUS: Maybe he was too badly damaged. They're dismantling him. They must be salvaging the components.

[USS Raven - Bridge]
ERIN: Your bio-dampener is losing power. It's time to come home.
MAGNUS (voiceover): I've got another minute or so. Stand by.

[Borg Cube]
MAGNUS: We may not get another chance to observe this behavior.

[Medical lab]
SEVEN: It prevented the Borg from detecting them. They referred to it as a bio-dampener. The device creates a field around the body, which simulates the physiometric conditions within a Borg vessel.
TUVOK: Camouflage.
SEVEN: Precisely.
TUVOK: We need four of these devices. How soon can you replicate them?
EMH: I'll have to tailor each unit to its user's physiology. A few hours at least.
TUVOK: Begin immediately. I'll inform the Captain.
EMH: Ingenious design.
SEVEN: The Hansens were resourceful.
EMH: Sounds like you're warming up to your folks.
SEVEN: It was merely an observation.
EMH: This is an important stage of your social development, Seven. Try not to think of it as simply a research project, but as an exploration of how you were raised.
SEVEN: My parents underestimated the Collective. They were destroyed. Because of their arrogance, I was raised by Borg.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Operation Fort Knox is ready to proceed. All departments are standing by and I've given the order to begin at oh six hundred hours.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Coffee? You look like you could use some.
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: It's a human vice you might want to try one day. Keeps you sharp.
SEVEN: One day.
JANEWAY: I've been fine-tuning our game plan for tomorrow morning, and I've decided to reassign you to the bridge.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm concerned about Voyager's safety, and if the Sphere decides to attack I'll need your expertise at Tactical.
SEVEN: I should be on the away team.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna will do just fine in your place.
SEVEN: You may encounter unexpected obstacles. Forcefields, encryption codes. I'm the only member of this crew who can anticipate them.
JANEWAY: You underestimate the rest of us.
SEVEN: And you underestimate the Borg.
JANEWAY: This is more than just a question of tactics. I'm concerned about your well-being, and your ability to perform on this mission.
SEVEN: Your concern is unwarranted.
JANEWAY: Is it? I'm not the only one who's worried about you. Chakotay, Neelix, the Doctor, we've all noticed changes in your behavior. You are preoccupied, agitated, and you're making mistakes. Don't get me wrong. I appreciate your efforts, and we couldn't have come this far without your help, but it's obviously taken its toll. If I'd realized how those journals were going to affect you, I never would have pushed you to read them. And I'm not about to ask you to face the Collective in your present frame of mind.
SEVEN: The past several days have been difficult. But I must join the away team, and I assure you I will not make another mistake.
JANEWAY: I've made my decision, Seven.
SEVEN: If I don't go, this mission will fail.
JANEWAY: You sound awfully certain about that.
SEVEN: I know the Borg.
JANEWAY: And I know you. There's more to what you're saying. What's wrong?
SEVEN: Over the past two years, I have become familiar with the individuals on this vessel. Voyager is my Collective now. Your survival is important to me. I am willing to risk my own well-being if it increases our chances of success. Assign me to the away team. Please. Thank you.
JANEWAY: Seven. You've made remarkable progress as an individual and as a member of this crew. For what it's worth, Voyager wouldn't be the same without you.
BORG (voiceover): A vessel has been detected. Unimatrix four two four grid zero three. Activate.

[Borg Sphere]
BORG (voiceover): Vessel identified. Federation Starfleet, class two shuttlecraft. Three lifeforms.

[Bridge]
TORRES: The Sphere is maintaining course.
CHAKOTAY: Move the shuttle in closer.
PARIS: The Borg are still ignoring it.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Transporter room two.

[Transporter Room]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): They're not taking the bait.
JANEWAY: Shuttle status?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): All systems go. False bioreadings are holding steady.
KIM: How about a phaser shot across their bow. Might grab their attention.
SEVEN: No. The shuttle would be perceived as a threat and they'd destroy it.
JANEWAY: Commander, increase the energy output of the shuttle's warp profile.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): That should present a more inviting target.

[Borg Sphere]
BORG (voiceover): Warp signature detected. Prepare for assimilation. Relevant technology. Engage tractor pulse.

[Bridge]
PARIS: They've got it. They're pulling it in toward a docking port along the central radius. Five hundred meters, two hundred. They're dropping shields.
CHAKOTAY: Energize.
TORRES: They're in.
EMH: Bio-dampeners are stable. They're as good as invisible.
CHAKOTAY: The Sphere?
TORRES: The shields are back up. They're assimilating the shuttle.
CHAKOTAY: Keep a sensor lock on the away team. Maintain course.

[Borg Sphere]
QUEEN (voiceover): Never forget who you are.
JANEWAY: Seven, are you all right?
SEVEN: Proceed.
KIM: Primary shield generator. Got it.
TUVOK: Spatial charges here, there and there.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Janeway, charges set. Returning to transport coordinates.
SEVEN: The transwarp coil is offline.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, now.
TUVOK: Activate the charges.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Their shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: Lock onto the coil and energize.

[Borg Sphere]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Target obtained.
QUEEN (voiceover): Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: Seven, keep moving!
SEVEN: No. I wish to stay. I intend to rejoin the Collective.
JANEWAY: I can't let you do that.
SEVEN: You have no choice.
JANEWAY: Keep moving. That's an order.
SEVEN: Go!
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to away team.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: The sphere has detected Voyager. They've altered course to intercept and they're charging weapons. We've got to get you out of there now.
PARIS: Four hundred thousand kilometers and closing.
CHAKOTAY: Full power to weapons.

[Borg Sphere]
JANEWAY: I'm not leaving without you.
SEVEN: Then you will be assimilated.
TUVOK: They can see us.
KIM: How?
TUVOK: I don't know.
JANEWAY: Bridge, we're in position. Three to beam up.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Three?
JANEWAY: Energize.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Where's Seven?
JANEWAY: She had a change of heart. Report.
CHAKOTAY: The Sphere's changing course. They're retreating.
TORRES: They're bringing the remaining transwarp coils online.
JANEWAY: Pursuit course. Target their propulsion system.
PARIS: They're gone, Captain.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
QUEEN: Welcome home. You've changed. Your exo-plating, your ocular implant. They've taken you apart and they've re-created you in their own image. Hair, garments, but at the core you are still mine.
SEVEN: The Borg have changed as well. I expected re-assimilation, not conversation.
QUEEN: I see they've also given you a sense of humor.
SEVEN: My humor is my own.
QUEEN: Spoken like a true individual. The last two years must have been a remarkable experience. You are unique.
SEVEN: My experience will add to your perfection.
QUEEN: Yes.
SEVEN: That is why you removed me from Voyager.
QUEEN: That is why we put you there in the first place. You believe that Voyager liberated you from the Collective. Did you really think we would surrender you so easily?
SEVEN: Explain.
QUEEN: You must be tired. It's time to regenerate. We've adapted an alcove just for you. Go. It will help order your thoughts. When your cycle is complete we will continue our conversation. Comply.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Progress?
TORRES: We were having trouble modulating the coil to our warp field. But I had an inspiration this morning. Instead of trying to adapt the coil to our technology, we should be adapting our systems to theirs. With any luck, we should have transwarp capability by oh six hundred.
JANEWAY: Impressive.
TORRES: Actually, I can't take all the credit. I did some digging in Seven of Nine's personal database and I found some designs she'd been working on to enhance the warp drive. With a few adjustments
JANEWAY: Work with Mister Paris on a flight plan. I want to make our first trial run tomorrow afternoon.
TORRES: Right.
JANEWAY: And B'Elanna? Don't access personal databases without my authorisation.
TORRES: Captain?
JANEWAY: There are protocols for observing privacy on this ship.
TORRES: No offense, but Seven of Nine is not on this ship anymore.
JANEWAY: I realize the two of you weren't exactly close. Regardless, we've just lost one of our own.
TORRES: She was never one of our own, Captain. Didn't she just prove that?
JANEWAY: I don't know what happened on that sphere and neither do you, Lieutenant. Carry on.

[Cargo Bay two]
CHAKOTAY: No sign of Borg activity. We made a clean getaway.
JANEWAY: The Sphere?
CHAKOTAY: It hasn't shown up on long range sensors or subspace telemetry. It could be anywhere in the quadrant by now.
JANEWAY: Launch a class five probe. Scan for residual transwarp signatures.
CHAKOTAY: Understood.
JANEWAY: Why choose this moment to rejoin the Collective?
CHAKOTAY: Maybe she'd been planning it all along.
JANEWAY: She's had any number of opportunities to leave before now.
CHAKOTAY: But never direct access to a Borg vessel. I will betray you. That's what she said two years ago when you disconnected her from the hive.
JANEWAY: Two days ago, she told me Voyager had become her Collective.
NEELIX: Captain, we've cleared out most of the debris, but before we vaporize it I'd like to melt down the larger fragments and extract the polytrinic compounds.
JANEWAY: Makes sense.
NEELIX: That leaves just one item, Seven of Nine's alcove. It requires a lot of power, over thirty megawatts. Should I deactivate it?
JANEWAY: No, leave it alone.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Computer, isolate the sensor readings for time index one one four point six. Identify source.
COMPUTER: Random subspace energy fluctuations.
JANEWAY: Isolate the sensor readings for time index one six six point two. Source?
COMPUTER: Random subspace energy fluctuations.
JANEWAY: Computer, run a transpectral analysis on all subspace fluctuations. Yes?
TUVOK: A member of the crew has requested an appointment with the Captain. I informed her that you were occupied, but she was insistent.
JANEWAY: Whatever it is, I'm sure Commander Chakotay can handle
JANEWAY: Request granted. Send her in.
NAOMI: Permission to submit a proposal for your review.
JANEWAY: Proposal?
NAOMI: It's a rescue operation for Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: Oh. You created this plan all by yourself?
NAOMI: Yes, ma'am. You see, if we change our long range sensors to Seven's cortical implant frequency maybe we can find her.
JANEWAY: The Delta Quadrant is a very big place, and Seven could be thousands of light years from here.
NAOMI: What if we boosted our sensor range with power from the main deflector?
JANEWAY: You've been spending too much time in Engineering. I'm afraid it's not quite that simple. But thank you, Crewman. Your initiative is duly noted.
NAOMI: Captain? You're not going to give up, are you?
JANEWAY: There are three things to remember about being a Starship Captain. Keep your shirt tucked in, go down with the ship, and never abandon a member of your crew.
COMPUTER: Transpectral analysis complete.
JANEWAY: Take a look at this, Naomi. What do you see?
NAOMI: Sensor logs.
JANEWAY: These aren't random energy fluctuations. They're Borg comm. signals, and they were all directed at Cargo Bay two.
NAOMI: You mean the Borg were talking to Seven of Nine?
JANEWAY: It sure looks that way. Come on.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
QUEEN: Good morning.
SEVEN: My visual cortex. It's been altered.
QUEEN: We've enhanced it with Borg technology. You've seen through human eyes long enough. It's a neural processing adjunct designed to increase your synaptic efficiency.
SEVEN: Remove it.
QUEEN: You prefer to remain small?
SEVEN: I prefer to remain unique.
QUEEN: Don't be afraid. We won't turn you into a drone. You're much too valuable to us with your individuality intact. But you've left humanity behind. Try to abandon their petty emotions as well. Fear, anger, vanity. They've corrupted you, but the damage can be repaired.
SEVEN: You've expended significant resources to capture me. Why?
QUEEN: Isn't it obvious? You're going to help us assimilate humanity. We failed in our first attempt to assimilate Earth, and we won't succeed the next time unless we understand the nature of their resistance. We want you to be our eyes. Let us see humanity.
SEVEN: While I was regenerating, you assimilated my memories.
QUEEN: Our thoughts are one.
SEVEN: Then you already possess all of my knowledge. What more do you want?
QUEEN: You are the only Borg that has ever returned to a state of individuality. We want to keep you exactly the way you are. Otherwise you would lose your human perspective. We don't want another drone. We want you.
SEVEN: I will resist.
QUEEN: I know.
SEVEN: What's happening?
QUEEN: Our vessel is disengaging from the Unicomplex. We're setting a course for grid five three two.
SEVEN: State our purpose.
QUEEN: Assimilation. Our presence is not required, but I thought the experience would be a rewarding one for you. Species one zero zero two six.
SEVEN: How many lifeforms?
QUEEN: Three hundred ninety two thousand. You're experiencing compassion. A human impulse. You've forgotten what it means to be Borg. Those lives will be added to our own.
MAGNUS (voiceover): Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, supplemental. It's been a busy week. The cube linked with another Borg vessel and received over fifty thousand new drones. We now begin the dangerous task of identifying the newcomers.

[USS Raven - lab]
ERIN: Species six nine six one, Ktarian. Tritanium infrastructure. He's a tactical drone.
MAGNUS: Take a look at his proximity transceiver. Let's check his previous designation.
ERIN: Three of five, Tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix one.
MAGNUS: I want to keep an eye on this one. Let's tag him. Bring me the subdermal probe, will you?
ANNIKA: Is he special?
MAGNUS: Very special. We think he used to work near the Borg Queen. If he ever goes back there, we'll be able to track him now.
ANNIKA: Does the Queen have a throne?
MAGNUS: Nobody knows.
ERIN: We think she's more like the Queen of an insect colony. She helps coordinate all the other drones.
MAGNUS: His regeneration cycle's almost complete. We'd better get him back.
ANNIKA: Bye.
ERIN: He's in his alcove. Nobody missed him. Enough drones for one day. Anybody hungry?
ANNIKA: Me.
MAGNUS: You two go ahead. I want to read through his cranial transceiver logs, see if he was ever in direct contact with the Queen.
ERIN: Don't be long.

[Janeway's quarters]
CHAKOTAY: It turns out his hunch was right. The drone had been receiving direct commands from this Borg Queen. I analyzed the comm. signals. Look at the transpectral frequencies.
JANEWAY: They match the ones that were sent to Seven. What did the Hansens learn about this Queen?
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid they never got a chance to find out.
JANEWAY: One thing is certain. She contacted Seven of Nine, and the next day Seven rejoined the Borg. Obviously, she exerts some influence.
CHAKOTAY: You think Seven was instructed to leave Voyager?
JANEWAY: Instructed, coerced. She insisted she join the away team. She was adamant that if she didn't board that Sphere, our mission would fail. Sounds to me like she was being threatened. My instincts told me she was holding something back, but I, I didn't pursue it. I let her go.
CHAKOTAY: If you hadn't, we might all be drones by now.
JANEWAY: What's running through that Collective mind of yours? You've got thousands of species to choose from, billions of individuals. Why Seven of Nine? You should've assimilated us while you had the chance.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: I want you to keep analyzing the Hansens' database. Compile a list of every technology they created to track the Borg. Assemble a team of engineers to assist you.
CHAKOTAY: If you're planning a rescue mission, that research will only take us so far.
JANEWAY: Oh?
CHAKOTAY: I've studied their log entries long enough to realize that as brilliant as the Hansens were, they made a fatal mistake. They became overconfident.
JANEWAY: We won't make the same mistake.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: This will be a long range tactical rescue. It could take days, even weeks, before we find our missing crewman. Lieutenant Torres is equipping the Delta Flyer with the transwarp coil. It'll allow us to cover more territory. An away team will take it into transwarp space, where Tuvok believes we can track the sphere that abducted Seven of Nine. Thanks to the Hansens, we'll be well prepared for an encounter with the Borg. Their multi-adaptive shielding will make the Flyer virtually invisible to Borg sensors, and narrow beam transporters will allow us to penetrate the Sphere. Mister Paris, you'll man the helm. Commander Tuvok, tactical. Doctor, there's no telling what condition Seven will be in when we find her. You'll come along.
EMH: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'll be leading the away team. The rest of you will remain on Voyager and maintain position at the threshold of our transwarp conduit. We may need tactical support when we return. You'll be taking your orders from Commander Chakotay. We'll be searching for one individual among thousands of drones. But she's one of us and I'm not about to let her go. Let's get started.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: All systems go. We're ready for the jump.
JANEWAY: Bring the coil online. Prepare for transwarp.
TUVOK: Power output fluctuating.
JANEWAY: Compensating.
PARIS: We're at critical velocity.
JANEWAY: Engage, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Transwarp in four, three, two. We've crossed the threshold.
JANEWAY: Steady as she goes. Doctor, are you all right?
EMH: Just a little motion sickness. I'll need to adjust my matrix to accommodate for extreme velocity.
TUVOK: I'm detecting residual transwarp signatures. They match the Borg Sphere.
JANEWAY: Adjust our course and follow it, Mister Paris.
EMH: I believe the Captain's order was steady as she goes.
JANEWAY: Full speed ahead.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
QUEEN: We've arrived. Are you ready?
SEVEN: I have familiarized myself with the species.
QUEEN: Tactical weakness.
SEVEN: Their vessels lack manoeuverability.
QUEEN: Tactical strength.
SEVEN: They've developed a modulating phaser pulse that can penetrate our shields.
QUEEN: How do you propose we adapt?
SEVEN: You are the Borg. You tell me.
QUEEN: Thirty nine of their vessels are converging on our position. They're firing weapons. Our shields are failing. We will be destroyed. How do you propose we adapt?
SEVEN: Triaxillate our shield geometry to absorb their phaser pulses.
QUEEN: I was thinking the same thing. Adaptation complete. They're no longer a threat. Go to the Primary Assimilation Chamber. You'll monitor the bio-extraction process. You look reluctant. Maybe I've been pushing you too quickly. You can assist with the repairs to our shield matrix instead. Seven of Nine. Be efficient.

[Assimilation chamber]
SEVEN: Assist me. I am not Borg, I will help you escape. Assist me!
SEVEN: I'm detecting one of your vessels. It's heavily damaged, the crew is dead. The Borg are ignoring it. It's propulsion system is still functioning. I will transport you aboard. Remain there until the Borg leave orbit. Then set a course on a heading of one two one mark nine. Do you understand?

[Borg Queen's chamber]
QUEEN: Congratulations.
SEVEN: Regarding?
QUEEN: Assimilation is complete.
SEVEN: Three hundred thousand individuals have been transformed into drones. Should they be congratulated as well?
QUEEN: They should be. They've left behind their trivial, selfish lives and they've been reborn with a greater purpose. We've delivered them from chaos into order.
SEVEN: Comforting words. Use them next time instead of resistance is futile. You may elicit a few volunteers.
QUEEN: You cling to sarcasm because you are afraid to see the truth. Species one zero zero two six is already adding to our perfection. You can feel their distinctiveness coursing through us, enhancing us. Stop resisting. Take pleasure in this.
SEVEN: I will not take pleasure in the destruction of a race.
QUEEN: Human sentiment. Compassion, guilt, empathy. They're irrelevant.
SEVEN: Not to me.
QUEEN: Me? There is no me. There is only us. One mind.
SEVEN: My thoughts are my own.
QUEEN: We've overlooked something. A ship. Four lifeforms. They're trying to escape. How do you suggest we proceed? Destroy the vessel, or assimilate it?
SEVEN: Neither. There are only four lifeforms and the vessel is heavily damaged. It would be an inefficient use of our resources. We should ignore it.
QUEEN: In this case, our thoughts are not one. If those individuals are allowed to survive, species one zero zero two six will survive and continue to resist us. But that's what you were hoping for, wasn't it? You tried to mask their lifesigns, but I detected them.
SEVEN: Release the vessel.
QUEEN: I'm sorry this lesson has to be so painful for you, but you are a difficult pupil. Abandon your human frailties. They are the cause of your pain.
SEVEN: Let them go. Please.
SEVEN: I thought compassion was irrelevant.
MAGNUS (voiceover): Field notes, U.S.S. Raven, stardate 32634.9. The Raven was hit by a subspace particle storm. We took heavy damage and our multi-adaptive shielding went offline for thirteen point two seconds. Unfortunately, it was long enough for the Borg to perceive us as a threat.

[USS Raven - Bridge]
ERIN: I've found something. A nebula.
MAGNUS: Class?
ERIN: Mutara. Distance, three light years. I'm setting a course.
MAGNUS: The particle density's too high. Our hull would breach.
ERIN: We can reinforce structural integrity.
MAGNUS: We'll find somewhere else to hide.
ERIN: There's no time.

[Annika's room]
MAGNUS (voiceover): It's been three hours and the Cube hasn't found us yet. As long as we can keep masking our warp trail
ERIN (voiceover): The entire Collective knows about us by now. They'll send more ships.
MAGNUS (voiceover): The nebula's too dangerous.

[USS Raven - Bridge]
MAGNUS: We've had close calls before. This is no different. Remember when the transporters failed?
ERIN: And you had to spend the night in a maturation chamber, with fifty two neonatal drones. A transwarp conduit, two point three light years starboard. It's a Cube heading right for us.
MAGNUS: Time to intercept?
ERIN: One hour, maybe less.
ANNIKA (voiceover): Papa?
MAGNUS: Be right there, Annika. Start looking for an M-class planet. We'll abandon ship if we have to.

[Annika's room]
MAGNUS: Hey.
ANNIKA: Are we going to be assimulated?
MAGNUS: Not if I can help it. Go back to sleep, your mother and I have work to do.
ANNIKA: Are the Borg mad at us?
MAGNUS: No.
ANNIKA: Then why are they chasing our ship?
MAGNUS: They're curious about us, like we are about them. But don't worry, we won't let them get too close.
ANNIKA: Can't we go home?
MAGNUS: Soon.
ANNIKA: Papa, will it hurt to be a drone?
MAGNUS: Sleep.

[Delta Flyer]
EMH: Captain?
JANEWAY: Hmm.
EMH: I'd like to suggest a few modifications to the comm. array.
JANEWAY: Yes?
EMH: I've studied Seven's cranial schematics and I've isolated the frequency of her interplexing beacon. When we catch up with the Sphere, we might be able to send her a brief message.
JANEWAY: What if she's already been linked to the hive mind?
EMH: Every drone has its own translink signature. Only Seven will be able to hear our message.
JANEWAY: I'll give you a hand.
EMH: The Hansen Diaries. Not exactly light reading.
JANEWAY: I've been poring over their last log entries for any details we might have missed. I want to make sure history doesn't repeat itself.
EMH: They should have quit while they were ahead. Ten million terraquads of data, three years in the wild.
JANEWAY: They could have studied the Borg for another three decades and still have barely scratched the surface. I agree their methods were unorthodox, but that's been true of most great explorers.
EMH: Most explorers don't take their four year old daughter along for the ride.
JANEWAY: We'll get her back, Doctor, with her parents' help.
PARIS: Captain, I've got a fix on the Sphere's location. It's in a region about two hundred light years from here.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Bring the multi-adaptive shielding online. Set a course for those coordinates and prepare to disengage transwarp drive.
JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: I'm detecting thousands of integrated substructures, trillions of lifeforms, all Borg.
PARIS: There's a Cube coming up fast off our port bow.
JANEWAY: Did they detect us?
TUVOK: I don't believe so.
JANEWAY: Any sign of our Sphere?
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. Its ion signature leads directly to that whatever it is.
JANEWAY: Take us in, Mister Paris, minimum thrusters. Begin scanning for Seven, Tuvok.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
QUEEN: I have a task for you. We're planning to deploy a new mode of assimilation designed for highly resistant species. I want you to program the nanoprobes.
SEVEN: Your technology has changed since I left the Collective. My knowledge is insufficient.
QUEEN: Your knowledge for the target species is invaluable. Species five six one eight. Human. Warp capable. Origin, grid three two five. Physiology inefficient, below average cranial capacity, minimal redundant systems, limited regenerative abilities. Our previous attempts to assimilate them were all direct assaults. They failed, so we've created a more surreptitious strategy.
SEVEN: You intend to detonate a biogenic charge in Earth's atmosphere.
QUEEN: It would infect all lifeforms with nanoprobe viruses. Assimilation would be gradual. By the time they realized what was happening, half their population would be drones.
SEVEN: Inefficient. The virus would take years to proliferate.
QUEEN: We've waited this long. Interface with the central alcove. Begin programming the nanoprobes. Be sure to enhance the viral sequencers. You've been involved in hundreds of assimilations. This is no different.
SEVEN: To you, perhaps. Part of me is still human. I will not assist in their destruction.
QUEEN: We all originated from lesser species. I myself came from species one two five. But that's irrelevant now. We are Borg.
SEVEN: I am an individual.
QUEEN: You're only repeating their words. You sound like a mindless automaton. Comply, or we will turn you into a drone.
SEVEN: Proceed, if you wish.
QUEEN: You're torn between your desire to be one with us and your loyalty to them. It's time for you to complete your task. All of your emotions, grief, guilt, remorse, compassion, will be irrelevant once humanity is assimilated. Forget Voyager. They were never your Collective.
SEVEN: I am Annika Hansen. Human.
QUEEN: I remember Annika. Does she remember us? She wasn't afraid. Why are you?
SEVEN: You attacked us. You murdered my family.
QUEEN: We did no such thing. We gave them perfection.
SEVEN: Papa.
QUEEN: Your family's here. You're here. Be one with us again.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Seven of Nine, we're searching for you. Try to hang on.
SEVEN: Captain.
QUEEN: What did you say?
SEVEN: Nothing.
QUEEN: Janeway.

[Delta Flyer]
JANEWAY: Our transmission's being deflected.
EMH: By whom?
JANEWAY: I'm not certain.
TUVOK: I have isolated Seven's position. She's inside a large infrastructure approximately six hundred kilometers away.
JANEWAY: Set a course, Mister Paris.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
QUEEN: She's close. Her comm. signal originated within this spatial grid, but we can't detect her vessel. He knows why. Your father designed the technology Captain Janeway's using. Multi-adaptive shielding. Your perfect defense against the Borg. But we assimilated that knowledge, didn't we? We will adapt easily.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: The Cube has altered course. It's heading straight for us.
JANEWAY: They've detected us. Remodulate the shields. Evasive maneuvers.
PARIS: It flew right past us.
JANEWAY: We won't fool their sensors much longer. Tuvok?
TUVOK: Seven is inside a large chamber.
JANEWAY: Can you get a lock on her?
TUVOK: Not at this distance.
JANEWAY: Take us to within transporter range.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
QUEEN: We have their ship. A Federation shuttlecraft. Three lifeforms, one hologram.
SEVEN: If you've captured their vessel, you've assimilated them by now. I would sense their presence in the Collective. Captain Janeway is eluding you.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: The chamber is too heavily shielded. I can't get a lock on her.
JANEWAY: Can we beam into one of these adjoining corridors?
TUVOK: I believe so.
JANEWAY: Time for the bio-dampeners. Tom, hold our position. Target that chamber with full weapons. Stand by to fire on my command.
PARIS: Ma'am, won't you be down there?
JANEWAY: Do it.

[Borg Sphere]
JANEWAY: This way.
TUVOK: Try to locate the shield matrix.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
TUVOK: I can disable the forcefield, but it will take several minutes.
JANEWAY: Do it.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, give me the subdermal probe.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]
QUEEN: It's not too late to save them. As you wish.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: They've isolated our shields again. Three vessels are converging. I'm remodulating.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
SEVEN: You underestimate them.
QUEEN: It's time for a more aggressive approach.

[Delta Flyer]
EMH: I thought they couldn't see us.
PARIS: They can't! They're firing blind!

[Borg Sphere]
JANEWAY: Wake him. It's transmitting.
JANEWAY: I've got it. Field modulation is three two four point nine five.
TUVOK: Proceed.
JANEWAY: It's offline.
TUVOK: You'll be detected.
JANEWAY: Then I'd better hurry. You've got to disable the shield matrix around that chamber.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: It's no use, they've locked on to our shield modulators. They're adapting the second we change frequencies.
BORG (voiceover): We are the Borg. You will be assimilated.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
BORG (voiceover): Resistance is futile.
QUEEN: You have failed them.
SEVEN: No!
QUEEN: We believed you would be an asset to us. We were wrong. You are weak.
JANEWAY: Don't listen to her, Seven. She's irrelevant. Call them off or I'll destroy you.
QUEEN: Your weapons are useless.
JANEWAY: Don't be so sure. My tactical officer is disabling the shields around this room. Tom, status.
PARIS (voiceover): We've targeted the chamber, Captain.
JANEWAY: Let her go, or I'll give the order to fire.
QUEEN: You would be destroyed as well, along with your crewman.
JANEWAY: Better than being one of you. Tom, high-yield torpedoes, full spread. Fire on my command.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Captain, they've disengaged

[Borg Queen's Chamber]
PARIS (voiceover): the tractor.
JANEWAY: Hold your fire. Beam us out of here.
PARIS (voiceover): A dispersal field just activated around the chamber you're in. I can't get a lock.
JANEWAY: Seven, shut down that field.
QUEEN: Don't listen to her. She's poisoned your thoughts long enough.
JANEWAY: I'm giving you an order.
QUEEN: One order, one voice. Insignificant.
JANEWAY: Tom, energize.
SEVEN: She's adapting.
PARIS (voiceover): The field went up again, Captain. I can't beam you out.
QUEEN: You will assist the Collective as drones. Assimilate them.
SEVEN: Captain, target the power node directly above this alcove. It will disrupt her command interface. Our thoughts are one.

[Delta Flyer]
EMH: Welcome back.
PARIS: Three vessels, closing fast.
TUVOK: Direct hit to our tactical array. Weapons are down.
JANEWAY: Bring the coil online. Prepare for transwarp.
JANEWAY: Tom?
PARIS: Transwarp in four, three, two. A vessel entered the conduit with us, just before it closed.
TUVOK: They're targeting our engines.
JANEWAY: Maintain course.
PARIS: Direct hit on the port nacelle. We're venting plasma.
TUVOK: Rerouting emergency power.
PARIS: It's not enough. I'll need thirty teradynes at least, or we'll lose transwarp.
JANEWAY: How long to the rendezvous coordinates?
PARIS: Two point four minutes, but we'll drop out of transwarp in less than one.
JANEWAY: Reroute power from life support.
EMH: Captain!
JANEWAY: I'd rather suffocate than vaporize. Do it!

[Bridge]
TORRES: I'm picking up transwarp signatures. There's a conduit approaching, thirty thousand kilometers off our port bow.
CHAKOTAY: Battle stations.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: We're twenty seconds from normal space.
JANEWAY: The Borg vessel?
TUVOK: Still in pursuit, closing rapidly.
PARIS: Fifteen seconds.
SEVEN: They're trying to lock on with a tractor beam.
JANEWAY: Remodulate shields.
PARIS: Threshold in eight, seven, six.
TUVOK: They're locking on.
PARIS: Five.
SEVEN: I've re-polarized the shields. It's being deflected.
PARIS: Three, two.

[Bridge]
TORRES: They're through.
CHAKOTAY: Voyager to Delta Flyer. Report.
JANEWAY: We've got Seven, but there's a Borg vessel right behind us.
CHAKOTAY: Target the threshold perimeter. Photon torpedoes, full spread.
TORRES: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: It should destabilize the matter stream and implode the conduit for at least a light year.
TORRES: Torpedoes locked.
CHAKOTAY: Fire.

[Delta Flyer]
JANEWAY: Voyager, report.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We collapsed

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: the conduit. No sign of Borg activity.

[Delta Flyer]
JANEWAY: Clear us for docking. We're coming home.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Commander, I'm picking up Borg signatures. Lots of them.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
TORRES: The conduit.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you collapsed it.
TORRES: So did I.
CHAKOTAY: Stand by weapons. Captain

[Delta Flyer]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Raise shields. We've got company.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Here they come.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 52619.2. We got another twenty thousand light years out of the transwarp coil before it gave out. I figure we're a good fifteen years closer to home.

[Cargo Bay two]
JANEWAY: I see you've picked up some bad habits.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: The Doctor told you to regenerate for at least two days. You're violating a direct medical command.
SEVEN: I will comply when my work is completed.
JANEWAY: Borg tactical data?
SEVEN: During my time at Unimatrix One I acquired a vast amount of knowledge. It may prove useful in our future encounters with the Borg. I am downloading it into Voyager's database. The Borg believed I was unique, that I understood humanity. They were obviously mistaken.
JANEWAY: How so?
SEVEN: I betrayed the crew of Voyager, threatened you with assimilation. I did not expect you to return for me.
JANEWAY: Looks like you still have a few things to learn. Time to regenerate.
SEVEN: When I am finished.
JANEWAY: No, now. That's an order.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Sweet dreams.

[Varro ship - Tal's cabin]
KIM: We shouldn't be here.
TAL: Don't worry. Nobody saw us leave. (She removes his comm, badge.(
KIM: Hey, I need that. What if somebody tries to call?
TAL: Shush.
KIM: What was that?
TAL: Don't worry. Come here.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. After two weeks we're close to repairing the Varro's warp drive. Then there's the Varro crew. I'm starting to think they'd rather give up warp travel than accept help from strangers.

[Varro ship - Central control]
JIPPEQ: I thought we agreed Central Control would be off limits.
JANEWAY: We did, but I need to access your warp assembly.
JIPPEQ: That technology's classified.
JANEWAY: We have to reconfigure the assembly if we're going to finish this job.
JIPPEQ: Then consider it finished.
JANEWAY: We've come this far.
JIPPEQ: You've turned our ship upside down for two weeks, and I've yet to see any results.
JANEWAY: You might check the antimatter injectors.
JIPPEQ: Back online.
JANEWAY: All you need now is a jolt of antimatter from Voyager's engines and you'll be back in business, but I need access to your warp assembly. You know, I can understand why you're distrustful of other species. Frankly, we've had a rough time in the Delta Quadrant ourselves. But our two species have made remarkable progress working together to repair your engines. We've come a long way since you ignored our opening hails. Let's not throw all that away.
JIPPEQ: I'll admit we do share some things in common.
JANEWAY: We're both on long journeys, looking for allies. In many ways, we're like cousins.
JIPPEQ: Cousins?
JANEWAY: Well, distant cousins. Think about it. Four hundred years ago you started out the same way we did, a single starship, a small crew, facing the unknown. And now, centuries later, you've grown into a generational ship with a history and culture all your own. When I look at your vessel, I can't help but wonder if I'm seeing Voyager's future. Our journey could easily last several generations. So, what do you say, cousin?
JIPPEQ: You can access the warp assembly from here.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
JANEWAY: Status?
TORRES: The plasma couplings are online. We're ready for the antimatter transfer.
JANEWAY: Then let's get started. Janeway to

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Voyager. Status.
CHAKOTAY: Ready here, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Initiate the transfer.

[Varro ship - Central control]
JIPPEQ: Warp reactors one through fourteen are coming online. It's working.
JANEWAY: Keep your fingers crossed. For luck.

[Varro ship - Tal's cabin]
TAL: If you're planning on leaving through the viewport, you might want to get dressed. The interstellar vacuum might get a little chilly.
KIM: What? Oh, funny.
TAL: Come back to bed.
KIM: I can't sleep.
TAL: Cuddle.
KIM: I can't cuddle.
TAL: I told you we're not going to get caught. If someone had seen us, they would've reported it by now.
KIM: I'm violating about half a dozen regulations by just being in this room. And what we did earlier? I don't know if Starfleet even has a regulation for that.
TAL: What are you saying? Making love is a crime in your culture?
KIM: Yes! No. What I'm saying is, it's a breach of protocol.
TAL: How romantic.
KIM: The Captain instructed all away teams. No personal interaction with the Varro crew. I violated a direct order.
TAL: Come back to bed. That's an order.
TAL: Are all humans so jumpy?
KIM: No, only me.
KIM: The warp engines. They've started the plasma transfer. We've got to get down there. We're late. What are you waiting for?
TAL: To see what you look like in my uniform.
KIM: You don't understand. If I'm not at my post.
TAL: You'll be executed?
KIM: Funny. We'd better go in separately.

[Varro ship - Central Control]
TORRES: Impressive.
PARIS: Just trying to orchestrate the antimatter flow.
TORRES: You should try some Chopin when you're done. Look who showed up for the final movement.
KIM: Excuse me?
PARIS: Just a little late for the joke, as well as the job.
KIM: I was checking the manifolds in segment twenty two.
JIPPEQ: Warp reaction's destabilizing. Tal?
TAL: I can't find the problem.
JANEWAY: We're less than a minute away from multiple core breaches. Abort the transfer.
JIPPEQ: So much for finger crossing.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna?
TORRES: I'm reading microfractures all over the hull.
JIPPEQ: Why couldn't we detect that before?
JANEWAY: Good question. We'll have to check the hulls in each of your vessel's segments.
JIPPEQ: But that'll take days.
JANEWAY: The sooner we start, the sooner we finish.

[Corridor]
PARIS: Friendly people.
KIM: They've had a lot of bad experiences with other species.
PARIS: Well, I don't know. It seems like your first contact went pretty well.
KIM: What's that supposed to mean?
PARIS: I was just wondering where you disappeared to today.
KIM: I told you. I was checking the plasma conduits
PARIS: In segment twenty two, I know. They must have sonic showers over there. You're a lot cleaner than you were when you left. You are such a lousy liar. Haven't you learned anything from me after five years? She's cute.
KIM: Who.
PARIS: That assistant engineer, Tal.
KIM: Cute enough.
PARIS: Oh, here we go again.
KIM: What?
PARIS: You, going after impossible women. A hologram, an ex-Borg, the wrong twin, and now a girl from a xenophobic species?
KIM: You're right. You're absolutely right. I'm putting her out of my mind, I promise.
PARIS: Good. Glad to hear it. I'm due back on the bridge.
KIM: See you in the morning.

[Kim's quarters]
KIM: Computer, open a channel to Varro ship, segment sixteen, station two oh four. Encode transmission with security code alpha seven.
COMPUTER: Channel open.
TAL (screen): What took you so long? I've been waiting twenty two minutes for you to call.
KIM: I was testing myself. Seeing how long I could resist calling you.
TAL (screen): And?
KIM: I lasted twenty two minutes.
TAL (screen): Should I feel complimented or insulted?
KIM: Since this is the first chance I've had to open a comm. link, complimented.
TAL (screen): So you liked what happened?

[Varro ship - Tal's cabin]
KIM (screen): Yeah, a lot.
TAL: Enough to try it again?
KIM (screen): Absolutely. I've got to be honest, I wasn't expecting something so different.
TAL: Neither was I. Our species look so similar. Well, at least on the surface.
KIM (screen): I would've never guessed when it came down to the basics. Well, let's just say the birds and bees would be very confused.
TAL: The birds and bees?

[Bridge]
PARIS: I'm telling you, you should take a look at their database. They've got some pretty amazing stuff on that ship.
TUVOK: Stuff?
PARIS: Their environmental control system, for instance. It's completely regenerative. Zero waste.
TUVOK: Impressive.
PARIS: It can be programmed to create almost any habitat. If you wanted to, you could recreate Vulcan in your quarters with that system.
TUVOK: Why would I want to?
PARIS: A little taste of home in the Delta Quadrant? Think about it. Springtime on the shores of Lake Yaron.
TUVOK: I require a desk and a bed. Nothing more.
PARIS: You're missing the point.
TUVOK: No doubt.
PARIS: These people have been traveling for four hundred years. They've learned a thing or two about living comfortably.
TUVOK: Our systems are more than adequate.
PARIS: Oh, I give up.
CHAKOTAY: After only two minutes? Tuvok, how do you do it?
TUVOK: I wait until his own illogic overwhelms him. I'm detecting an unauthorized transmission.
CHAKOTAY: Origin?
TUVOK: Unknown. It's been encoded.
CHAKOTAY: Find out where it's going.

[Kim's quarters]
KIM: Where would you most like to be right now?
TAL (screen): Besides your quarters?
KIM: Besides my quarters.
TAL (screen): On a distant moon, where the air is warm and the gravity is light. No bulkheads around me. Where, if I walk too quickly, I can almost fly.
KIM: I like that.
TAL (screen): What about you? Where would you most want to be right now?
KIM: Besides your cabin?
TAL (screen): Besides my cabin.
KIM: Sorry, I can't come up with anything better than your cabin.
TAL (screen): And what would you do if you were here?
KIM: Now?
TAL (screen): This very moment.
KIM: I'd ask you to dim the lights.
TAL (screen): And what if I said no?
KIM: Okay, so we leave the lights on.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The message is being sent to the Varro ship, segment sixteen.
CHAKOTAY: Living quarters.
PARIS: Er, Commander? I think I can track that down for you. Hold on, something's wrong. I'm losing the signal.

[Kim's quarters]
KIM: Tal?

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The transmission has ended.
PARIS: If it was a transmission. It could have just been a glitch in the comm. system.
CHAKOTAY: Run a diagnostic.

[Cargo Bay two]
CHAKOTAY: Finding the source of these structural problems isn't going to be easy. They've already scanned most of their ship and come up empty. I'm hoping we'll do a better job.
TUVOK: We should form smaller teams to maximize efficiency.
CHAKOTAY: Agreed. We'll work in pairs. Now, what I'd like to do is start with their reactor bay, where we first detected the problem.
PARIS: You owe me.
KIM: What?
PARIS: Eyes front. Last night I had to sabotage the comm. system to cover your tracks. You called her, didn't you?
KIM: Guilty.
PARIS: How long has this been going on? The truth.
KIM: From the moment we first saw each other. It was like touching an open plasma relay.
PARIS: Sounds serious.
KIM: Maybe it is.
PARIS: Has it occurred to you that you're breaking a few dozen protocols?
KIM: We know what we're getting into.
CHAKOTAY: Dismissed.
PARIS: Do you?
SEVEN: Our duty assignment. We're to survey the generational ship from Astrometrics.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Team alpha and gamma have finished scanning sections one through sixty four.
KIM: Kind of puts a Borg cube to shame, doesn't it?
SEVEN: The vessel's technology is impressive, but its construction is haphazard.
KIM: I guess they sort of improvised as they went along. Seven, you've been around humans for a while now. What do you think about love?
SEVEN: We're scanning for microfractures. I don't see the relevance.
KIM: Just curious.
SEVEN: Parental love, romantic love, affection between friends. Specify.
KIM: Romantic love.
SEVEN: An attraction based on sexual desire when it facilitates procreation.
KIM: I guess I'm asking the wrong person.
SEVEN: Not at all. The Borg have referenced this condition in over six thousand assimilated species.
KIM: Condition? You make it sound like a disease.
SEVEN: Physiologically, it bears a striking similarity to disease. A series of biochemical responses that trigger an emotional cascade impairing normal functioning.
KIM: Forget it.
SEVEN: Are you in love, Ensign?
KIM: I guess that's what I've been asking myself.
SEVEN: You're glowing.
KIM: I beg your pardon?
SEVEN: Your epidermis luminesced.
KIM: Oh, it must be the lighting in here.
SEVEN: No, it was you.
SEVEN: You should report to Sickbay.
KIM: It's nothing.
SEVEN: You must comply.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Lie still.
KIM: I feel fine.
EMH: No doubt you're feeling wonderful. Your beta endorphins are abnormally elevated.
KIM: Really?
EMH: You've been spending a lot of time on the generational ship. Do you recall coming into contact with any toxins? Antimatter radiation?
KIM: No.
EMH: Maybe something in one of their medical bays. A biological agent?
KIM: No.
EMH: Did you consume any of their cuisine?
KIM: No.
SEVEN: Doctor, there is unusual synaptic activity in his cerebral cortex.
KIM: No kidding.
EMH: This could be the work of an alien virus. We'll have to initiate full quarantine protocols. Inform the Captain and request a bio-alert.
KIM: Wait! There's no need for that. I can explain.
EMH: I'm listening.
KIM: Could you give us some privacy?
SEVEN: If there is the possibility of an epidemic the Doctor may require my assistance.
KIM: There isn't and he won't. Please.
KIM: Last night I had an encounter with one of the Varro.
EMH: Encounter?
KIM: A personal encounter.
EMH: Specifically?
KIM: Sex. We had sex.
EMH: You had intimate contact with an alien species without medical clearance?
KIM: It was in the heat of the moment. I didn't think anything like this would happen.
EMH: Correction. If you'd been thinking, you would have considered the risks and exercised restraint. Sit down. You'll need a full biomedical workup and your friend will have to come in as well.
KIM: Do we have to drag her into this?
EMH: It is my medical responsibility. Which, I'm sorry to say, also requires me to report this to the Captain.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: I expected more from you.
KIM: I'm sorry. I don't know what I was thinking.
JANEWAY: Don't you? I've seen Tal. She's an impressive young woman, beautiful. But that's no excuse to ignore your obligations as a Starfleet officer.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: There's a reason you took a semester of interspecies protocol at the Academy. There's also a reason why the Handbook on Personal Relationships is three centimeters thick.
KIM: All Starfleet personnel must obtain authorisation from their C.O. as well as clearance from their Medical Officer before initiating an intimate relationship with an alien species.
JANEWAY: Bravo. Unfortunately, your recitation comes a little late. According to the Doctor, your condition isn't life-threatening. There's no reason to confine you to Sickbay. Nut I do agree with his recommendation to run full bioscans on both you and Tal. And her people need to be told so they can evaluate any bio-threat you might have introduced into their population. We're trying to help these people, Ensign, earn their trust. I was even hoping they might return the favor, share their technology, their insights into long-term space travel. But your little escapade put that in jeopardy.
KIM: Permission to speak freely? With all due respect, this wasn't a fling. I've really gotten to know Tal, and I've developed true feelings for her.
JANEWAY: Noted. But there are regulations, and you've broken them. I'm entering a formal reprimand into your record, and I'm ordering you to break off this relationship. Do you understand?
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Commander, I wanted to share a few security concerns. A few days ago I noticed some mess hall supplies had disappeared. Liquid nutriments, emergency rations. Nothing to warrant a red alert, but I took the liberty of investigating on my own. Take a look at this.
TUVOK: Unauthorized use of the mess hall replicator is hardly a felony.
NEELIX: It wasn't just unauthorized. Someone accessed the ship's environmental controls from that station.
TUVOK: Life support was routed to Jefferies tube G thirty three, deck fifteen.
NEELIX: Isn't that section normally uninhabited?
TUVOK: Whoever did this encoded the procedure so it wouldn't be detected.

[Jefferies tube]
TUVOK: It appears we have intruders.
NEELIX: It looks like a Varro scanning device.
TUVOK: Breathable oxygen is confined to this chamber and the area immediately behind this hatch. Stand back.

[Varro ship - Tal's cabin]
TAL: Come in.
KIM: Work?
TAL: No, I'm just tormenting myself with what ifs. What if I actually had the chance to see that pulsar field? Go there instead of just squinting at it through long range sensors.
KIM: Too far off your course, huh?
TAL: Too close to an inhabited planet. They might make contact with us. It's too dangerous. It's always the same thing. The mighty generational ship. All we do is run away from anything that's different. But that's going to change.
KIM: I'm afraid I've got some bad news. I er, I can't see you anymore. Captain's orders.
TAL: How did she find out?
KIM: Something happened to me this morning. I had a strange sensation and then my skin luminesced, just like last night.
TAL: That shouldn't have happened. Our species are too dissimilar.
KIM: What shouldn't have happened?
TAL: We call it Olan'vora, the shared heart, when two of us merge. You know the biological connection we had last night? It becomes stronger. It won't hurt you, Harry, but it will change you. It'll change both of us. Bring us closer.
KIM: So can this process be reversed?
TAL: In time, if we stay away from each other. But if we don't, the more we're together, the harder it will be to stop it. But then, you have your orders.
KIM: Orders. It's an old story. Boy meets girl from the wrong side of the galaxy. Boy loses girl.
TAL: And girl loses boy.
KIM: It's not like we didn't know this was going to end.
TAL: At least we had two weeks.
KIM: Two great weeks.
TAL: Goodbye, Harry.
KIM: Bye. Are you really going to let me leave?
TAL: If that's what you want.
KIM: It's not.

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: Welcome aboard. Normally we like to know something about our guests before we invite them to join us. Care to tell us how you got here?
STOWAWAY: Through a docking port.
TUVOK: Your entry would have triggered an intruder alert.
STOWAWAY: Your technology's easy to circumvent. It doesn't matter how I got here. I'm not going back.
CHAKOTAY: That remains to be seen. You haven't explained your reasons for leaving the generational ship.
STOWAWAY: I'm not a criminal, if that's what you think. If you leave me at the next inhabited system, I'll manage from there.
CHAKOTAY: Your next stop is the Brig, unless you answer my questions.
STOWAWAY: I came aboard four days ago with one of the work details.
CHAKOTAY: Why?
STOWAWAY: Our ship's not the paradise our leaders make it out to be. There are thousands of us who feel like prisoners, and others who
TUVOK: Continue.
STOWAWAY: There are rumors of a movement. People who want to leave the ship. Some of them are willing to take violent action.
TUVOK: Can you be more specific?
STOWAWAY: This is a trick.
TUVOK: A trick?
STOWAWAY: You're trying to get me to expose the movement. Our leaders put you up to this.
TUVOK: On the contrary. We haven't even told them we've found you.
STOWAWAY: You're lying.
CHAKOTAY: I don't have time for a debate. You asked for asylum. Fine, I'll consider it. But only if you answer my questions. What movement? Contact the Varro authorities. Let them know we've found one of their people, then take him to the Brig.
STOWAWAY: You can tell the authorities that I'm not the only one. There are hundreds more like me.

[Janeway's quarters]
CHAKOTAY: Do we know anything about this supposed uprising?
JANEWAY: Jippeq said the rumors are just that, rumors. But he's questioning our stowaway, just to be certain. New protocols for working with the Varro. After the incident with Ensign Kim, they insisted we keep our crews segregated.
CHAKOTAY: That's pretty severe.
JANEWAY: Harry violated protocol. Frankly, I understand their position.
CHAKOTAY: Is that why you came down so hard on him? A formal reprimand for being intimate with a young woman?
JANEWAY: I know it seems a little extreme, but I wanted to leave a lasting impression. Chalk it up to growing pains.
CHAKOTAY: Well, he looks pained, all right. Until now he's had a spotless record. Maybe you should reconsider.
JANEWAY: What are you implying?
CHAKOTAY: Are you angry because Harry disobeyed orders, or because he let you down.
JANEWAY: I set the same standards for all my officers.
CHAKOTAY: If I object to one of your decisions you'll hear me out, even insist I speak up.
JANEWAY: You're my First Officer, he's an Ensign. He hasn't earned the right to question my orders, whatever his personal views.
CHAKOTAY: I see.
TORRES (voiceover): Engineering to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Yes?
TORRES (voiceover): We've found something.
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Corridor]
JIPPEQ: Do your officers make a habit of seducing the species they encounter?
JANEWAY: Certainly not. But it's my understanding this relationship was consensual.
JIPPEQ: I find that difficult to believe. We don't share your cavalier attitude toward intimacy.
JANEWAY: Our attitude is anything but cavalier. Ensign Kim has already been reprimanded. What about Tal? What happens to her?
JIPPEQ: In our society, mating is taken very seriously. When two people chose each other the bonding is permanent. They become biochemically linked. Separation is rare. It induces illness, sometimes fatal. What's to become of Tal when your Ensign flies off in search of his next conquest?

[Engineering]
TORRES: Captain.
JANEWAY: You found something?
TORRES: We've detected microfractures in one of Voyager's docking ports.
JIPPEQ: Microfractures? That's the same problem we've been having.
JANEWAY: A coincidence?
TORRES: I had suspicions that it wasn't. Seven confirmed them.
SEVEN: Observe. Silicon-based parasites which feed on duranium alloys. Apparently they began replicating on the Varro ship's hull several months ago, and then migrated to Voyager.
TORRES: We analyzed them and found artificial gene sequences. The parasites are synthetic.
SEVEN: They may have been created by someone aboard your vessel.
JIPPEQ: Sabotage? I don't believe it.
SEVEN: Perhaps not everyone is content to be in your Collective.

[Varro ship - Tal's cabin]
KIM (voiceover): Tal, are you there?
TAL: Harry?
KIM (voiceover): I can't keep this comm. link open. Where are you?
TAL: By my computer.
KIM (voiceover): Okay. Get ready for a ride, I'm locking on.
TAL: A ride?

[Shuttlecraft]
TAL: Where are we?
KIM: A shuttlecraft.
TAL: A shuttlecraft?
KIM: A short range vessel. We use it for away mission.
TAL: We can go anywhere we want?
KIM: Anywhere. For a while, anyway. I'm not due back on Voyager until nineteen hundred hours. They think I'm still out repairing a hull fracture. I finished early.
TAL: You're a fugitive now. How many protocols did you break this time? Let's see. Unauthorized use of a shuttlecraft, kidnapping.
KIM: Direct violation of the Captain's orders. I must be crazy.
TAL: I like you crazy. Navigation?
KIM: Careful, that's the weapons array. You know you almost vaporized your living quarters.
TAL: Well, they could use a good cleaning. Let's go somewhere.
KIM: Where?
TAL: There's a nebula about three hundred thousand kilometers from here. I've been watching it on the sensors for the past few days. Oh, I would love to see it with my own eyes.
KIM: Have a seat.
TAL: Look at this. A subspace vacuole near the center of the cloud. It must act as a gravitational anchor. There's so much data here it'll take weeks to analyze. Do you have a storage device? We need to download these reading. What?
KIM: I've just never seen anyone so excited about a class three nebula before.
TAL: Maybe you've been taking them for granted.
KIM: Maybe I have. Don't stop. You're beautiful when you're scanning.
TAL: Is that what you say to every girl you take for a ride? I bet you've left a trail of broken hearts across the Delta Quadrant.
KIM: Actually
TAL: Problem?
KIM: Stray radiation from the nebula. I thought it was the proximity alarm.
TAL: You said we had a couple of hours. No one's going to come looking for us.
KIM: Oh, you don't know Commander Tuvok. If he sees one electron out of place he calls for red alert. Here we are alone and all I can think about is duty and orders.
TAL: Those things are important. I think about them, too. But sometimes you need to follow a different kind of protocol. If you believe in something strongly enough, you can't ignore it, even if it means breaking a few rules.
KIM: That's why I took this shuttle. But every time I break a rule, I feel like my skull is going to decompress. I'm like some kind of Borg drone. Programmed. Except I was designed to be the perfect Starfleet officer. Top of his class, Captain of the Velocity team. Interstellar honors. First field assignment, bridge officer on a starship. Every cadet's dream come true.
TAL: You're not a program. In fact, I envy your freedom. I mean, your crew's mission to seek out life. What could be more liberating? You explore the unknown. Don't be afraid to explore what's happening between us.
KIM: Oh no, the Delta Flyer.
TAL: Commander Tuvok?
KIM: We're being hailed.
TAL: Well, you'd better answer them before they open fire.
KIM: Kim here.
TUVOK (voiceover): Ensign, you are in direct violation of the Captain's orders. Return to Voyager immediately, and bring Derran Tal with you.
KIM: Yes sir, but why bring Tal?
TUVOK (voiceover): She's wanted by the Varro authorities regarding an act of sabotage.

[Briefing room]
JIPPEQ: There's no point in lying. We found a schematic for the parasite on your personal database. You realize this could destroy our ship, our home?
TAL: To some of us it's more like a prison.
JIPPEQ: So you've resorted to sabotage, no doubt involving him.
TUVOK: Mister Kim's complicity remains to be proven.
TAL: He had nothing to do with our movement.
JIPPEQ: Movement?
TAL: Tell them.
JIPPEQ: It's none of their concern.
JANEWAY: If you want our help, you'll need to explain.
JIPPEQ: She's referring to a small group of dissidents.
TAL: It's not a small group. There are hundreds of us.
JANEWAY: What are you trying to achieve?
TAL: Our freedom. The right to live where we choose, to go where we choose.
TUVOK: How will you accomplish that if your vessel is destroyed?
TAL: We're not trying to destroy it. We're trying to dismantle it. The parasites weren't placed randomly. They're targeting the linkages between segments. Each segment will become its own ship. People can decide whether to go or stay.
JIPPEQ: You're destroying the work of every generation that came before you. Our ship isn't just a collection of modules, it's an expression of unity, tradition. For the sake of our history we must respect the rights of
TAL: Of the majority.
JIPPEQ: Yes.
TAL: What about the rights of the minority?
JANEWAY: Tal, if those segments come apart there could be decompressive explosions, most likely casualties. Is that what you want? You know more about the parasites than we do. You could help us.
JIPPEQ: Captain, she's a criminal.
JANEWAY: And maybe your only chance of stopping a catastrophe. Set up a datalink with Voyager. We'll do what we can from our end.
KIM: Tal?
TAL: I'll help you slow down the parasites so you can evacuate the segments in danger. Nothing more.
JIPPEQ: Let's get started.
KIM: Captain.
JANEWAY: Stow it, Ensign. Right now the only thing standing between you and the Brig is this report. The Doctor's bioscans confirm that you and Tal have developed some sort of biochemical bond. Clearly it's affected your behavior, so I have to assume that's why you disobeyed my orders. Report to Sickbay. You'll be confined there until this is over.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain!
JANEWAY: I told you to report for treatment.
KIM: I don't want treatment!
JANEWAY: In my ready room.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: You've got thirty seconds before I have Tuvok drag you to Sickbay.
KIM: Captain, I am not sick. I didn't disobey your orders because I'm under some alien influence. I disobeyed your orders because Tal and I are in love, and it's not right for you to keep us apart!
JANEWAY: Listen to yourself. You don't sound anything like the Harry Kim I know.
KIM: Good. I have served on this ship for five years and said, yes, ma'am to every one of your orders. But not this time.
JANEWAY: You're willing to risk your rank, your career, over this?
KIM: Have you ever been in love, Captain?
JANEWAY: Your point?
KIM: Did your skin ever flush when you were near another person? Did your stomach ever feel like someone hollowed it out with a knife when you were apart? Did your throat ever swell when you realized it was over? Seven of Nine, Seven of Nine told me love's like a disease. Well, maybe it is. Pheromones, endorphins, chemicals in our blood, changing our responses, physical discomfort, but any way you look at it, it's still love.
JANEWAY: For the sake of argument, let's say you're right. Your feelings for Tal are no different than mine for what, the man I was engaged to marry? Well, I lost him and you're going to lose Tal. You know that. What the Doctor is offering you is a way to ease the pain.
KIM: That man you were going to marry. If you could have just taken a hypospray to make yourself stop loving him, so that it didn't hurt so much when you were away from him, would you have done that?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain to the bridge.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We're detecting structural breaches on the Varro ship.
JANEWAY: Take your station.
TUVOK: Their shields are weakening.
KIM: One of the junctions is about to decompress.
JANEWAY: On screen. Mister Paris, release the docking clamps. Back us away.
PARIS: Docking controls are offline. I can't break us free.
TUVOK: Their shields are continuing to weaken. The superstructure will collapse in less than three minutes.
CHAKOTAY: If that happens while we're still docked
JANEWAY: Keep trying to break free. Janeway to

[Varro ship - Central Control]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Varro control room. What's your status?
JIPPEQ: Tal was able to slow the parasites' growth with a polaron surge, but the junctions are still destabilizing.
JANEWAY (voiceover): How much longer until you've evacuated the affected areas?
TAL: We need another two minutes at least.

[Bridge]
PARIS: I've got the docking controls back online.
CHAKOTAY: Initiate decompression sequence.
KIM: Wait. If we stay where we are, and extend Voyager's structural integrity field around the Varro ship, we could buy them another minute or two. They could finish the evacuation.
TUVOK: However, if an explosion occurs while both ships are inside the field, neither vessel will survive.
KIM: We can do it, Captain.
JANEWAY: Keep us where we are. Janeway to Engineering.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres here.
JANEWAY: Divert all available power to the integrity field, and extend it around the Varro ship.
TORRES (voiceover): Understood.

[Varro ship - Central Control]
TAL: Voyager's reinforcing our shields. Surprising, isn't it? A ship of outsiders risking their lives to save ours.
JIPPEQ: They're unusual people.
TAL: Well, maybe the galaxy isn't as hostile as you think. All junctions are clear. What are you waiting for? Tell Voyager to move away.
JIPPEQ: I'm initiating another polaron surge. We can destroy these parasites.
TAL: It's too late. You'll only destroy Voyager along with our ship. Let them go. Let us go.
TAL: Tal to Voyager.

[Bridge]
TAL (voiceover): The evacuation's complete. Disengage your structural field and move to a safe distance.
PARIS: Releasing docking clamps.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Most of the Varro have opted to stay together, traveling in separate ships, but the dissident group has been granted permission to break away and find their own path. We wish them luck.

[Tal's quarters]
TAL: Come in.
TAL: I wasn't sure I'd see you again.
KIM: The Captain gave me permission to say goodbye.
TAL: How are you feeling?
KIM: Lovesick.
TAL: Me, too.
KIM: Will you manage?
TAL: We have medications. I'll recover eventually.
KIM: So, where are you going?
TAL: The Natori system. A pair of binary stars caught in each other's gravity. We passed within a parsec three months ago. Now we're going back for a real look.
KIM: Do me one favor.
TAL: Anything.
KIM: Next time you run across a class three nebula, think of me.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Chronic sleep loss, acute gastroenteritis. You must feel awful, yet you're still refusing treatment?
EMH: Captain, just the person I wanted to see. This nonsense has gone on long enough. Order Mister Kim to take his medicine.
JANEWAY: Is his condition fatal?
EMH: That's hardly the point.
JANEWAY: Will he recover without taking his medicine?
EMH: Yes, but it could take weeks, even months.
JANEWAY: Well then, if Mister Kim wants to suffer.
EMH: Sometimes I think everyone on this ship has been possessed by alien hormones.
JANEWAY: Would you excuse us, please?
KIM: Thank you.
JANEWAY: Oh, don't thank me. I have no intention of relieving you of your duties, no matter how lousy you feel.
KIM: I understand.
JANEWAY: And the reprimand still stands. I've been thinking about how I reacted to your relationship with Tal.
KIM: You reacted like any Captain would.
JANEWAY: Probably. But I can't help wondering if my response would have been the same if it had been, say, Tom Paris instead of you. Oh don't get me wrong, I still would have been angry and disappointed, but I wouldn't have been surprised.
KIM: Because Ensign Kim doesn't break the rules.
JANEWAY: The truth is, Harry, I think about you differently than the rest of the crew. Which isn't to suggest that I don't care deeply about each of them. You came to me fresh out of the Academy, wide-eyed with excitement about your first deep space assignment. From that first day, I've always felt more protective of you than the others.
KIM: I appreciate that. But that was five years ago. I've changed.
JANEWAY: Yes, you have.
KIM: Maybe I'm not the perfect officer anymore.
JANEWAY: Maybe not. But you're a better man.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Last call. There's a bowl of soup in storage and I left the replicator online.
KIM: Thanks.
NEELIX: Good night.
NEELIX: Oh, I was just closing up for the evening, but if you need anything?
SEVEN: I'm here to see Ensign Kim.
NEELIX: Oh, good luck.
SEVEN: Ensign.
KIM: Hmm?
SEVEN: Thank you.
KIM: For what?
SEVEN: You completed several of my astrometric scans this morning.
KIM: You're welcome. I had some time between duty shifts. Besides, it kept me occupied.
SEVEN: You are attempting to distract yourself from your emotional damage?
KIM: I wish I could say it was working.
SEVEN: The treatment to relieve your condition was available and yet you refused.
KIM: I've got a disease, but I'm willing to live with the symptoms. Doesn't make much sense, does it?
SEVEN: I assumed that romantic love was a human weakness, but clearly it can also be a source of strength. Perhaps my analogy was flawed. Love is not a disease. Get well soon.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Are you sure this rice isn't supposed to be cooked? Steamed, fried?
EMH: The idea is to shower the couple with a symbol of good fortune, not garnish them like a roast chicken. Smile.
NEELIX: Rice, anyone?
CREWWOMAN: I'll take one.
NEELIX: Red alert.
KIM: Ready?
JANEWAY: This is it, Tom. Your bachelor days are over.
PARIS: Not a moment too soon.
JANEWAY: Second thoughts?
PARIS: Second, third, fourth.
EMH: I never thought I'd see the day.
SEVEN: Given the volatile nature of their relationship, one might have predicted homicide rather than matrimony.
TUVOK: When it comes to affairs of the human heart, it is wise to look beyond logic.
JANEWAY: We're gathered here today, not as Starfleet officers, but as friends and family, to celebrate the marriage of two of Voyager's finest. B'Elanna has asked me to forego the rigors of Klingon painsticks in favor of a more traditional ceremony.
KIM: They're saving the painsticks for the honeymoon.
JANEWAY: As Captain, the honor of joining these two people has fallen to me. But before I declare them husband and wife, Tom and B'Elanna have prepared their own vows.
PARIS: I still don't know what I've done to deserve you, But whatever it is, I'll try to keep doing it. And I promise to stand by you, to honor you, till death do us part.
JANEWAY: Ensign?
KIM: Hmm?
JANEWAY: The ring.
KIM: Oh.
PARIS: May this ring be the symbol of our eternal love.
TORRES: You stood by me when most people would have run for the nearest airlock. You were willing to see past my shortcomings, and to take all the bumps and bruises that came along with it. You made me a better person, even though I put up one hell of a fight. I look forward to our journey together.
JANEWAY: Commander.
TORRES: May this ring be the symbol of our eternal love.
JANEWAY: Not so fast. Lieutenant Thomas Eugene Paris, Lieutenant B'Elanna Torres. With the power vested in my by Starfleet Command and the United Federation of Planets, I now pronounce you husband and wife. Now, Tom. Bravo.
EMH: Congratulations.
SEVEN: For what?
TUVOK: You may not want to know. Captain's log, stardate 52586.3. We've had a lot to celebrate lately. Tom and B'Elanna's wedding, Ensign Harper's new baby, and the continued health of our warp drive, which has taken us within striking distance of home.

[Ready room]
CHAKOTAY: In this case the shortest path is a straight line. We'll pass right through the center of the Milky Way.
JANEWAY: And be in sector zero zero one within two years?
CHAKOTAY: More or less.
JANEWAY: You had Seven double-check the calculations?
CHAKOTAY: Two years, eleven days, six hours, provided we continue to operate at peak efficiency.
JANEWAY: Naturally. Of course, if we operate at peak efficiency, we'll be missing some interesting phenomena along the way. An anomalous gradient to the curvature of space, unusual bioharmonic readings from a binary system we'll reach about six months from now.
CHAKOTAY: And the scientist in you can't resist stopping to take a look.
JANEWAY: It would only add another two or three months. Do you think the crew would mutiny?
CHAKOTAY: On the contrary. Everyone'll jump at the chance for some last-minute exploration.
JANEWAY: Everyone, except Seven.
CHAKOTAY: Let your First Officer deal with the personnel problems.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Here's a lovely program modeled after a mountain resort on the fifth moon of Cytax. Just you, B'Elanna, and the crickets.
PARIS: Crickets?
NEELIX: Cytaxian crickets. Their song is reputed to be an auditory aphrodisiac.
PARIS: Ah. Well, between you and me, B'Elanna and I don't need aphrodisiacs.
NEELIX: There's always the beaches of Ahmedeen. Windsurfing on a sea of liquid argon.
PARIS: I was hoping for some place a little more down to earth.
NEELIX: Well, it's your honeymoon. Just how down to earth did you mean?
PARIS: Earth. I was thinking Chicago in the Roaring Twenties. Speakeasies, flappers, the Charleston.
NEELIX: If that's what you want.
PARIS: Is there a problem?
NEELIX: No, of course not. It's just that we're so close to Earth anyway, I thought you might want to try something a little more exotic.
PARIS: Let me let you in on a little secret, Neelix. Earth has the best vacation spots in the galaxy. It's got the cultures, the climates, the history, the people. It has everything you ever want in a planet.
NEELIX: You sound like a travel brochure.
PARIS: No, no. Just a native.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Oh, and make sure the deuterium manifolds are never opened wider than six hundred microns.
SEVEN: I am familiar with the specifications.
TORRES: Are you familiar with how temperamental the isolitic converter can be?
SEVEN: Yes.
TORRES: Most important, the enhanced warp drive. With the dilithium matrix running hot all the time now, you have to watch it like a hawk.
SEVEN: There is no point in providing me with knowledge I already possess.
TORRES: I guess I am being a little overcautious. I've just, er, never been away from Engineering for more than a couple of days. Certainly never a week.
SEVEN: My engineering abilities are more than sufficient. Enjoy your honeymoon.
TORRES: You may understand the isodynamics of this engine, but I don't think you understand its personality.
SEVEN: Personality? It is a propulsion device.
TORRES: That's my point. It's not just a device. It it has its own quirks, its own, its own moods
SEVEN: That's just a minor fluctuation in a subsidiary injector port. I will take care of it.
TORRES: I'm going with you.
SEVEN: Lieutenant, you are on leave.
TORRES: Not for another twenty minutes.

[Jefferies tube]
TORRES: So, who's the lucky guy? You caught the bouquet. That means you're next in line for the altar.
SEVEN: Yes, the Doctor informed me of that archaic human superstition.
TORRES: How about Harry Kim?
SEVEN: I fail to see the benefit of monogamous relationships.
TORRES: So you want to stay single?
SEVEN: If you mean remain open to social situations with a wide variety of individuals, then yes.
TORRES: I'm married. I'm not going into stasis for the rest of my life. No, I plan to have
SEVEN: I do not wish to be dependent on anyone. By marrying, one limits one's romantic interactions to a single individual, a circumstance which implies extreme monotony.
TORRES: I'm glad we had this little talk.
TORRES: Try the manual release.
TORRES: I thought you said it was a minor fluctuation,
SEVEN: This entire Jefferies tube is losing molecular cohesion.
TORRES: I guess the honeymoon's off.

[Briefing room]
TORRES: It's our warp field. The enhanced drive is emitting some form of subspace radiation that's affecting Voyager's infrastructure.
TUVOK: It's beginning to break down the molecular bonds in all surrounding sections.
TORRES: We're seeing early stages of the effect in the warp core. Reaction chamber, injector ports, they're all showing signs of de-cohesion.
KIM: It doesn't make any sense. We knew about the subspace radiation and we ran dozens of simulations before we brought the new drive online.
JANEWAY: Have you tried taking the core offline?
TORRES: It's not stopping the problem.
JANEWAY: Try to isolate the cause of this, and stabilize the sections that have already been affected. Dismissed.

[Paris' quarters]
TORRES: Computer, begin Chief Engineer's Log, supplemental. I've spent the last four hours analyzing the warp field schematics, but I'm still no closer to finding out what's going wrong. Computer, did it just get colder in here?
COMPUTER: Negative.
TORRES: Raise the temperature by five degrees.

[Corridor]
KIM: Hungry?
PARIS: Ah, can't join you tonight. Dinner with B'Elanna.
KIM: Married one day and you're already domesticated.
PARIS: Jealous? Good night, Harry.

[Paris' quarters]
PARIS: B'Elanna? If we're going to live together we're going to have to compromise on the temperature. Computer, reset environmental controls to standard. B'Elanna!
PARIS: Shush.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Bring her in, quickly. It looks like we've got an epidemic on our hands.

[Doctor's office]
JANEWAY: Acute cellular degradation?
EMH: Their chromosomes are breaking down at the molecular level.
JANEWAY: Proximity to the warp field?
EMH: I believe so. B'Elanna and my other three patients all work in Engineering. They've been subjected to the heaviest exposure. But preliminary scans suggest the rest of the crew has been affected as well, including the Captain. It's only a matter of time before you begin showing the same symptoms.
JANEWAY: We've shut down the warp drive. The ship is still deteriorating and so are we. Why?

[Mess hall]
TUVOK: Every bulkhead and conduit from deck one to fifteen show signs of molecular de-cohesion.
NEELIX: Even food from the replicator shows signs of decay.
CHAKOTAY: As soon as anything comes into contact with Voyager's atmosphere, it's affected.
NEELIX: That's what we thought at first but take a look at this. These vegetables are completely free of decay.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you said the replicators
NEELIX: They weren't replicated. I harvested them on an away mission last week. The same goes for these particle accelerators, the trilithium ore samples, the keg of Hazari ale. All of them were brought aboard over the last few months, and none of them is disintegrating.
TUVOK: We haven't been able to narrow the time frame precisely, but it appears that anything brought on board over the past thirty to forty weeks is immune.
CHAKOTAY: Something happened to the ship months ago that's causing this decay.
TUVOK: A logical conclusion.

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: Eight months, seventeen days ago, first contact with the Kmada.
CHAKOTAY: They tried to sabotage our life-support systems with low-frequency theta radiation. Any chance that could have caused the phenomenon?
TUVOK: Unlikely.
CHAKOTAY: Let's keep looking.
TUVOK: The next event of note took place nine months, two days ago when the N'Kree tried to conscript Voyager into their battle fleet.
CHAKOTAY: And failed. Next?

[Sickbay]
PARIS: Hey.
TORRES: Hey.
PARIS: How's my old lady?
TORRES: Well enough to break your nose if you call me that again.
PARIS: Here it is.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: Our honeymoon.
TORRES: Tell me.
PARIS: Six days and seven nights in the historic Graystone Hotel in beautiful downtown Chicago, circa 1928. Wait till you see it. Crystal chandeliers, wall to wall Italian marble. We'll take a drive up Michigan Avenue in a vintage Duesenberg, hobnob with the stars of the silver screen, dance the Charleston at a genuine speakeasy called the Green Mill.
TORRES: What do I wear?
PARIS: That's already taken care of. Our bags are packed and waiting for us at the hotel.
TORRES: Champagne?
PARIS: It's on ice, in a silver bucket right next to our canopy bed. B'Elanna? Doctor!
EMH: Cortical stimulator. Initiate an iso-synaptic pulse. It's not working. Again! Increase the electrolytic levels to seventy five millijoules. We've lost her.
PARIS: Increasing electrolytic levels to ninety millijoules.
EMH: There's nothing more we can do.
PARIS: Maybe we can try a direct neural resequencing.
EMH: Lieutenant.
PARIS: We can't just let her die!
EMH: Return to your quarters.
PARIS: No! I don't want to leave her.
EMH: I understand. But I need to perform an analysis before her cells have completely degraded. Please.

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: Nine months, twenty eight days. We collected silicate from a comet in the Podaris sector.
CHAKOTAY: According to Neelix's manifest, those samples are stored in the geology lab. They're showing no signs of molecular degradation. Take us further back.
TUVOK: Ten months, eleven days ago. Voyager was forced to land on a class Y planetoid in the Vaskan sector.
CHAKOTAY: The Demon class planet. One of our more interesting missions. We set down looking for deuterium and ended up helping a new form of life to be born.
TUVOK: The planet possessed a biomimetic compound.
CHAKOTAY: The silver blood. It sampled our DNA and created duplicates of the entire crew.
TUVOK: I've often wondered what happened to them. Are they flourishing? Have they continued to evolve?
CHAKOTAY: Do they still resemble us?

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: Is she?
EMH: I'm afraid so.
CHAKOTAY: Scan for traces of deuterium, hydrogen sulfate and dichromates.
EMH: Dichromates?
CHAKOTAY: Just do it.
EMH: What's this about?
TUVOK: We have a disturbing theory.
EMH: I'm detecting all of those compounds.
CHAKOTAY: I want you to inject her with a dichromate catalyst.
EMH: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: We've got to be sure.
EMH: I don't understand.
CHAKOTAY: That wasn't B'Elanna. It was a duplicate. A biomimetic copy.
EMH: Copy?
TUVOK: We are all duplicates. None of us are real.
EMH: Behold the primordial soup.
JANEWAY: That's what created us?
CHAKOTAY: Not just us. The entire ship is composed of the same material.
EMH: It's a biomimetic compound that duplicated the crew's molecular structure so precisely that I would never have detected it, if I hadn't known what to look for.
JANEWAY: I was born on Earth in Indiana. I remember growing up there. I remember graduating from the Academy. I have no memory of being a copy.
EMH: Apparently, the original Kathryn Janeway's memories were duplicated as well. Somehow, after the real Voyager left, we began to forget we were duplicates.
CHAKOTAY: Eventually, we assumed their lives and set a course for Earth.
JANEWAY: And now the warp core is breaking down our cellular structure. We didn't think the radiation would hurt us because it isn't harmful to humanoids.
EMH: Each and every one of you will disintegrate just as B'Elanna did. I'm not immune, either. The holo-emitters, like everything else, are copies. It's only a matter of time before my program begins to degrade.
JANEWAY: What can we do to stop the process?
CHAKOTAY: There is one option. Go back.
JANEWAY: To the Demon class planet?
CHAKOTAY: We were created to survive there.
TUVOK: He's correct. It's reasonable to assume that if we return to our native environment, the degradation will cease.
JANEWAY: Even if we survived the trip, we'd be traveling thousands of light years in the wrong direction.
CHAKOTAY: It may be the only way.
JANEWAY: Duplicate or not, I'm still the same person I was yesterday and so are all of you, and that means we're going to do everything possible to complete our mission, which is to reach Earth. Is that clear?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: I want you to adjust the environmental controls to simulate a class Y planet. That should slow the rate of degradation.
TUVOK: It's only a matter of time before the environmental controls themselves are affected.
JANEWAY: I realize that. That's why we're going to try and find a safe harbor till we can figure out a way to stop the degradation. Scan for the nearest class Y planet and set a course. In the meantime, I'll explain our situation to the crew.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: There's still a great deal we don't know about this phenomenon, and I have every confidence we'll find a way to reverse it.
KIM: So you're saying all our experiences before we were duplicated, none of it's real?
JANEWAY: I don't pretend to understand it myself, Harry, but the way I choose to look at it is this. If everything about us was duplicated, that includes our memory engrams, the emotional centers of our brain. So if you feel something, remember something, believe something, I'm not about to tell you it's not real.
NEELIX: But there is another crew out there, right? The real Voyager.
JANEWAY: I suppose there is, but I don't want that thought to distract any of you from our mission.
PARIS: What mission is that?
JANEWAY: The same as it's always been, Tom. To reach the Alpha Quadrant safe and sound. But to do that we're going to have to beat this problem, and for now that means conserving energy, running the ship in gray mode, cutting crew shifts in half. The less you exert yourselves, the slower the cellular decay. Duplicates or not, you're still my crew. Dismissed.
KIM: Tom.
PARIS: There's no one here by that name.
KIM: I just wanted to say, I'm sorry about B'Elanna.
PARIS: Sorry? What for?
KIM: She was your wife.
PARIS: She was a duplicate, just like you are, Harry.
KIM: You heard the Captain. If we're going to survive this, we've got to believe in ourselves.
PARIS: You can drop the good soldier routine. You don't have to do everything the Captain says anymore. Hell, she's not even the Captain.
KIM: She is to me.
PARIS: Okay. Well, let's suppose she does get us back to Earth. What then? You really think your family is going to welcome you with open arms?
KIM: I don't know.
PARIS: For all you know the real Harry Kim is having Sunday dinner with them right now. And you come strolling through the door, they're going to see you for exactly what you are. An impostor.
KIM: So what are we going to do, huh? Wait around till we all disintegrate?

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Come in. Chicken paprikash. My grandmother's recipe. Well, maybe not my grandmother, but it's still delicious. It's our weekly dinner together. Don't tell me you forgot.
CHAKOTAY: We've lost three more people. We've got to head back.
JANEWAY: I've spent the past five years trying to get this crew home. I'm not about to quit now.
CHAKOTAY: Listen to yourself. You haven't even been alive for five years. Home is a class Y planet in the Delta Quadrant. We don't belong on Earth.
JANEWAY: How do you know where we belong? For all we know, the real Voyager's been destroyed and we're all that's left. For all we know, we're supposed to be living their lives.
CHAKOTAY: That's a pretty big assumption, and it's putting this crew in danger.
JANEWAY: There's only one thing I know how to be, Chakotay, and that's Kathryn Janeway.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like to think I know Kathryn Janeway pretty well myself. And as much as she'd like to get her crew home, I don't think she'd be willing to kill them in the process.
JANEWAY: Maybe this dinner wasn't such a good idea after all.

[Mess hall]
EMH: I've tried everything I could think of. Biomolecular enhancers, gene splicing with replicated DNA, and I'm no closer to finding a cure. But I do have an idea.
JANEWAY: I'm listening.
EMH: Find the original Voyager. If the real Captain Janeway were here, we could sample her DNA and imprint it onto your mimetic pattern.
JANEWAY: But Doctor, we have no way of knowing where they are. They could be behind us, ahead of us, back on Earth, destroyed. Besides, even if we could find the real Janeway, how do we know she'd help?
EMH: She's you. My emitter is starting to degrade.
JANEWAY: You'd better get back to Sickbay.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to the Captain. Sensors have detected a class Y planet.
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Bridge]
KIM: It may not be home, but it checks out. Thermionic radiation, surface temperatures in excess of five hundred Kelvins.
JANEWAY: Just what the Doctor ordered. Safe harbor?
CHAKOTAY: There's no guarantee this is going to work.
JANEWAY: Harry, vent all plasma from the nacelles, transfer available power to atmospheric thrusters and stand by to commence landing sequence.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Red alert.
PARIS: Landing struts online. Inertial dampers at maximum.
JANEWAY: Take us down, Mister Paris.
TUVOK: Captain, a vessel is approaching from the planet surface.
JANEWAY: On screen.
KIM: They're hailing.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
ALIEN (voiceover): You're in direct violation of the Ord'Mirit mining treaty. Leave orbit or you'll be destroyed.
TUVOK: They are firing weapons.
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. We are not your enemy.
CHAKOTAY: They seem to disagree.
JANEWAY: We're not interested in your mining operation. Our ship is badly damaged. We need to set down on the surface to make repairs.
ALIEN (voiceover): We repeat. Leave or be destroyed.
TUVOK: Shields down to fifty two percent.
CHAKOTAY: With our systems degrading, we won't be able to take this much longer.
JANEWAY: Target their weapons systems. Fire.
TUVOK: No effect. Hull breaches on decks eleven, fourteen and fifteen.
KIM: The damaged sections are turning into biomimetic matter. Containment fields are failing.
JANEWAY: Evacuate those decks.
TUVOK: If we emit a polaron burst, we can disable their shields long enough to target their warp core.
JANEWAY: No, we're not going to destroy them over a misunderstanding.
TUVOK: Either that or retreat.
JANEWAY: We're Starfleet officers, we can't forget that. Break orbit.
PARIS: That planet may be our last chance for survival.
JANEWAY: We'll have to find another option.
PARIS: I'm not sure why we're still taking orders from you.
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant, follow orders or leave the bridge.
TUVOK: The alien vessel's not pursuing.
JANEWAY: Begin scanning for other class Y planets. Harry, transmit a distress call on all subspace bands. If the real Voyager is out there, I want to find them.
PARIS: In the meantime, which direction do you want me to go?
JANEWAY: Resume course for the Alpha Quadrant, Mister Paris.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: I know what you're going to say and I don't want to hear it.
CHAKOTAY: Too bad.
JANEWAY: I'm willing to take a little insolence from Tom, but I shouldn't have to remind you that I'm still the Captain.
CHAKOTAY: You're not. You're a biomimetic lifeform created in her image.
JANEWAY: Are you saying you're not taking orders from me anymore?
CHAKOTAY: I'm saying you need to step back and look at our situation objectively.
JANEWAY: You think I should have given the order to fire on that vessel.
CHAKOTAY: No, I agreed with your decision to stand down. But how long can we adhere to Starfleet principles before we start making compromises?
JANEWAY: As long as it takes. Our ship may be deteriorating, but our humanity is intact.
CHAKOTAY: Belief alone won't hold this ship together.
JANEWAY: It's gotten us this far.
CHAKOTAY: Not far enough. Tom and I aren't the only ones who question your decisions. Now that the truth is known, a lot of people think we should turn around and head for the class Y planet. They're starting to remember their existence before Voyager.
JANEWAY: What, what existence? Pools of biomimetic fluid? We didn't even experience sentience until Voyager came along.
CHAKOTAY: What good is sentience if we're not alive to experience it? Kathryn, we've got to go back.
JANEWAY: I promised the crew I'd get them home.
CHAKOTAY: Home isn't Earth.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Sickbay, medical emergency.

[Sickbay]
EMH: He's not responding. His neural pathways are destabilizing.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We've lost Commander Chakotay. Duplicate or not, he was real to me and he was a fine Starfleet officer. And he was a friend who wasn't afraid to let me know when I am wrong. Mister Kim, bring the enhanced warp drive online. Turn Voyager around. We're going home.
PARIS: Captain?
JANEWAY: Set a course for the Demon planet.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We've lost sixty three crewmen, and our systems are continuing to fail. Though we're still five weeks away from the Demon Planet, we haven't given up hope.

[Briefing room]
KIM: The holographic projectors in Sickbay went offline at oh three hundred. We've lost the Doctor.
JANEWAY: What's Tom's condition?
KIM: No change.
JANEWAY: Well, looks like we're in the market for a new medical officer. Feel up to it, Neelix?
NEELIX: I've only been trained as a field medic.
JANEWAY: It'll have to do.
NEELIX: What about my other duties?
JANEWAY: Make Sickbay your priority. At this point morale is a luxury. How's the core holding up?
SEVEN: The modified nanoprobes are still reinforcing the warp field. It should remain functioning until we reach the Demon Planet. However, there is less than a twenty percent probability that Voyager will remain intact that long.
JANEWAY: Well, it won't be the first time this crew has been up against
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY: It's all right, I'm just a little tired.
NEELIX: Let Ensign Kim take command for a little while.
JANEWAY: I'm still the Captain.
NEELIX: And I am the Chief Medical Officer. Don't force me to relieve you of your duties.
JANEWAY: Your concerns have been noted, sir. Now, there is another matter. I want to download the ship's database and our personal logs into a signal beacon. In the event we don't survive, there should be some record of our accomplishments.
KIM: A time capsule.
JANEWAY: This crew's existence may have been brief, but it's been distinguished. None of you deserves to be forgotten.
SEVEN: I will use unaffected components to construct a beacon.

[Bridge]
KIM: The deflector's offline. Interstellar dust is contaminating the warp field.
JANEWAY: Purge it.
SEVEN: I can't. The exhaust manifolds have disintegrated.
JANEWAY: We've come too far to be stopped by dust. Reroute auxiliary power to the deflector.
SEVEN: Warp field failure in eight, seven, six, five, four, three
KIM: Got it.
SEVEN: Reinitializing the deflector. The warp field has stabilized.
NEELIX: I may not be morale officer anymore, but I think this is a cause for celebration. What do you say, Captain? Captain?
NEELIX: She's gone.
KIM (voiceover): Acting
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 52597.4. Our situation's getting worse every day. More than eighty percent of the ship is uninhabitable. Most of the crew are gone. It seems less and less likely that the few of us left will reach our destination.

[Bridge]
KIM: Computer, hull status.
COMPUTER: Hull integrity at forty five percent.
KIM: What was that?
COMPUTER: Cargo bay two has decompressed.
KIM: Seal off that deck.
KIM: Computer, erect a level ten force field around the bridge.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
KIM: Seven, I need more power up here. The bulkheads are coming apart.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: I'm transferring the last of our power reserves.
COMPUTER: Deck one force field is in place.

[Bridge]
KIM: That's better. How's life support?
SEVEN (voiceover): Degrading.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: We have approximately ten hours of air remaining.

[Bridge]
KIM: What about the time capsule?
SEVEN (voiceover): It's ready for launch.
KIM: Do it.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: The launch sequencer has misfired.
KIM (voiceover): Reset the

[Bridge]
KIM: Initiator. Try it again.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: It won't work. The launch mechanism is demolecularised.

[Bridge]
KIM: Salvage the probe.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: It's too late. It's been destroyed.

[Bridge]
KIM: Personal logs, mission logs, all our history, gone. Now what?

[Engineering]
SEVEN: I'm detecting a vessel twenty two light years away.

[Bridge]
KIM: I see it. I'm trying to hail them. The subspace transceiver's malfunctioning. If they move out of range, they won't see us. We still have one active comm. circuit but we'll have to go to impulse to use it. Seven, drop out of warp.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: The engine controls are fused.

[Bridge]
KIM: Then unfuse them.
SEVEN (voiceover): Without an isolitic

[Engineering]
SEVEN: Converter, I cannot comply.

[Bridge]
KIM: Dump the core.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: Ensign, dropping out of warp at this velocity could

[Bridge]
SEVEN (voiceover): Tear the ship apart.
KIM: We're already falling apart. We're not going to make it

[Engineering]
KIM (voiceover): To the class Y planet in one piece

[Bridge]
KIM: Which means that ship is our only hope. Think about it. What would Captain Janeway have done?

[Engineering]
SEVEN: Computer, prepare to eject the warp core. Authorisation Seven of Nine, omega phi nine three.
COMPUTER: Warp ejection systems enabled.
SEVEN: Eject the core.
SEVEN: We've lost attitude control and shields. Hull integrity at nineteen percent.

[Bridge]
KIM: Reroute life support! Hell, reroute everything we've got left to the containment fields.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: Hull breaches on

[Bridge]
SEVEN: Decks nine, ten and eleven.
KIM: Seven. Seven! Computer, how long until we're within hailing range of that ship?
COMPUTER: Five minutes and thirty four seconds.

[The real Voyager Bridge]
JANEWAY: Range?
PARIS: Five million kilometers.
JANEWAY: Try hailing again.
TUVOK: No response.
KIM: Captain, I've found the source of the distress call. It's coming from a vessel.
CHAKOTAY: Can you identify it?
KIM: No, the readings are erratic. Looks like they've taken heavy damage.
PARIS: Four hundred thousand kilometers.
JANEWAY: Drop to impulse. Are the rescue teams ready? Bridge to Sickbay, stand by for casualties.
TUVOK: In visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
JANEWAY: Where's the ship?
KIM: No sign of it.
CHAKOTAY: That debris, that couldn't be all that's left.
TUVOK: I'm detecting residual deuterium, anti-neutrons, traces of dichromates. If it was a vessel, it isn't anymore.
JANEWAY: Scan for lifesigns, escape pods.
TUVOK: None.
JANEWAY: Make a note in the ship's record. We received a distress call at oh nine hundred hours. Arrived at the vessel's last known coordinates at twenty one twenty. The ship was destroyed. Cause unknown. No survivors. Mister Paris, resume course.
PARIS: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: No! Make them stop!
EMH: Anything?
SEVEN: Nothing of relevance. His neural pathways are still fluctuating.
PARIS: Doc! Can't you do something? Look how much he's suffering.
EMH: If I sedate him we could lose any chance of making contact with the aliens.
CHAKOTAY: Get them out!
EMH: Commander, can you hear me? Focus on the sound of my voice.
CHAKOTAY: I can't understand them. They won't stop talking!
EMH: What are they saying?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know! Make them stop, please!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Janeway to Sickbay. Any progress, Doctor?
EMH (voiceover): It's not going well.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Our ambassador is still delusional.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We're running out of time.

[Bridge]
TORRES: The graviton shear is buckling the hull. If we don't find a way out of Chaotic space soon, we're going to die here,

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Chief Medical Officer's Log, supplemental. Despite my efforts, Chakotay's condition continues to deteriorate.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: Doctor!
EMH: Yes, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I'm tired. I want to sleep.
EMH: If you lose consciousness, it could sever your link with the aliens.
CHAKOTAY: Aliens?
EMH: The ones who live in this place. We're trapped here. They may know a way out. It's urgent that you speak with them.
CHAKOTAY: But I don't understand what they're saying.
EMH: I can try to help you understand.
CHAKOTAY: I'm going to end up like my grandfather. A crazy old man.
EMH: No, you're not crazy. I believe the aliens are reconfiguring your neural pathways so they can communicate with you. Do you remember the day you were injured on the holodeck?
CHAKOTAY: In the boxing simulation?
EMH: Yes. You were knocked down, remember?
CHAKOTAY: I was injured. I came to see you. We had an argument.
EMH: That's right. Try to remember more about the holodeck.
CHAKOTAY: I was sparring with a Terrellian, and Boothby was there. He used to train me when I was a cadet.
EMH: Keep going. What round was it?
CHAKOTAY: Three. Round three. The fight was going badly. I was avoiding my opponent.

[Holodeck - Boxing program]
BOOTHBY: Stay away from the ropes, son. That's it, that's it.
COMPUTER: End of round three.
CHAKOTAY: That wasn't so bad.
BOOTHBY: It was terrible.
CHAKOTAY: Am I missing something? He barely landed a glove on me.
BOOTHBY: Give him time. You're not reading him. You think he's slow and stupid. I know better. In fact, I know his kind in my bones. Literally. I can count the fractures, if you'd like.
CHAKOTAY: He's not landing any punches.
BOOTHBY: That's the problem. You're not letting him.
CHAKOTAY: Have I got this sport all wrong?
BOOTHBY: Boxing is more about taking the shots than dishing them out. You shouldn't be dancing away from this fellow. Let him punch himself out a little. It all comes down to the heart. Do you have the heart for this? That's the contest. It's not against him. It's against your own natural human desire not to get hurt. That's the real fight.
COMPUTER: Begin round four.
BOOTHBY: Go. Go, go, go.
BOOTHBY: Stay with him. Too close. Come on, come on, break it up. Atta boy. Keep him busy.
BOOTHBY: Gloves up!

[Sickbay]
EMH: How many?
CHAKOTAY: Three.
EMH: Good guess. I've got a good mind to use a needle and thread. Add a little authenticity to your fun.
CHAKOTAY: Be my guest
EMH: You'd like that. A manly scar above your eye. Chakotay, the Maquis Mauler. Pointless violence. That program shouldn't even be in our database.
CHAKOTAY: There's nothing like a good fight, Doctor. I was there when Pryce-Jones went twenty three rounds with Gul Tulet. The Knockout in the Neutral Zone. Best match I ever saw.
EMH: Really? Most blood spilled, or did Pryce-Jones drive Gul Tulet's nasal bone up into his brain?
CHAKOTAY: You've got the wrong idea.
EMH: The idea is simple enough. Do enough damage to your opponent to render him unconscious. How's the headache?
CHAKOTAY: It hurts.
EMH: Oedema beneath the anterior fossa of the cranium. Hairline fracture of the septum.
CHAKOTAY: I saw something strange.
EMH: I'll bet you did.
CHAKOTAY: No, before I got hit.
EMH: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: I looked over at Boothby. He yelled at me. I turned back, then the ring got distorted.
EMH: An hallucination. You probably had some pressure building up along the optic nerves from a previous blow.
CHAKOTAY: No, I was keeping away from him the whole fight. He never touched me.
EMH: Hmm. A number of the ganglia in your visual cortex are hyperactive. Your opponent wasn't firing on you with an energy weapon, was he?
CHAKOTAY: Just his gloves.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Chakotay to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: On my way.
EMH: I want you back in here for some tests, unless you want to be seeing things on a regular basis.

[Bridge]
KIM: It's changed course again. Twenty thousand kilometers off starboard.
CHAKOTAY: Ion storm?
JANEWAY: Not exactly. It's two light years across, emits enough energy for a dozen stars, it doesn't match any phenomenon in our database, and it won't sit still.
KIM: Okay, eleven thousand kilometers off the port bow.
TUVOK: We are too close.
PARIS: I'm backing us off.
TUVOK: The phenomenon has been shifting positions every few minutes.
CHAKOTAY: Nothing so massive could move that fast.
JANEWAY: Full reverse. Maximum shields.
JANEWAY: Full stop. Anybody want to tell me where we are?
TUVOK: We appear to be inside the disturbance.
KIM: I'm picking up a lot of raw data. Subspace flux, graviton waves. Sensors must be confused. The readings are shifting around so much I can't make heads or tails of what's out there.
SEVEN (voiceover): Captain, this is Seven of Nine. Please report to Astrometrics at once.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: The Borg have been aware of this phenomenon for many years. It is a zone where the law of physics are in a state of flux. Chaotic space.
JANEWAY: Why didn't sensors warn us in time?
SEVEN: Chaotic space appears randomly and unexpectedly. The Borg have observed it throughout the galaxy.
TUVOK: Then why hasn't a Federation starship encountered anything like this?
SEVEN: No doubt some have.
CHAKOTAY: Think of all the Starfleet vessels that disappeared under mysterious circumstances.
SEVEN: Borg vessels are more advanced, but only one Cube has survived an encounter with Chaotic space.
CHAKOTAY: Those aren't good odds.
TUVOK: If the physical constants are shifting, our sensors can't function.
SEVEN: The problem is here. Changes in the gravitational coefficient will cause sudden shear forces against our hull. Shields will protect us, but only for a time.
JANEWAY: How much time?
SEVEN: Unknown.
JANEWAY: We've got to recalibrate the sensors, redesign them if necessary, otherwise we're flying blind. Let's get to work.

[Chakotay's quarters]
COMPUTER: Begin round one.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, did you say something?
COMPUTER: Negative.
BOOTHBY (voiceover): Pick them up, son. It's the fight you've been waiting for.
COMPUTER: Begin round one.
TUVOK (voiceover): Bridge to Commander Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead, Tuvok.
TUVOK (voiceover): Please report to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: On my way.

[Bridge]
KIM: Graviton wave displacement says we're moving at warp six. Subspace sensors show we're standing still.
PARIS: We can't be that far from where we entered. Maybe we should just set a course, go to impulse and see what happens.
TUVOK: What would most likely happen is a collision with an asteroid field or a star.
PARIS: That'd be better than just sitting here waiting for.
CHAKOTAY: Report.
KIM: Torsional shear has increased by two hundred percent.
CHAKOTAY: Shields?
TUVOK: Holding.
PARIS: Like I was saying. Better than just sitting here waiting for our hull to breach.
TUVOK: Perhaps we could drop a series of beacons to help us navigate.
PARIS: Now that's an idea.
CHAKOTAY: Did you hear something?
TUVOK: I heard nothing unusual.
PARIS: I didn't hear anything.
COMPUTER: Begin round one.
PARIS: I'll plot a course. We'll take it slow. What do you think, Chakotay?
MC (voiceover): The Challenger, Chakotay!
CHAKOTAY: Don't you hear that?
PARIS: Hear what?
CHAKOTAY: Look.
TUVOK: Commander. Are you all right?
BOOTHBY (voiceover): Put on the gloves, son.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not ready.
TUVOK: Commander.
MC (voiceover): In this corner, wearing the red trunks.
COMPUTER: Begin round one.
PARIS: Bridge to Sickbay. We've got a medical emergency.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Laaaa. Laaaa. Lets go to eight hundred eighty hertz. Laaaa.
JANEWAY: Music lessons?
CHAKOTAY: Pretty soon we'll be singing duets.
EMH: I'm checking to see if there's been any damage to the auditory nerves. Nothing so far. His vision checks out as well. I'm afraid the source of the trouble may be a little deeper.
CHAKOTAY: The family curse.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
EMH: Chakotay has the genetic marker for a cognitive disorder. Sensory tremens. The primary symptoms are visual and auditory hallucinations.
CHAKOTAY: My family doctor suppressed the gene before I was even born, so I never had to go through what the others did, like my grandfather.
EMH: For some reason, the gene's been switched on. I'm not saying for certain that's why Chakotay thought he was getting ready for a prize-fight, but it's a good bet. The holodeck boxing simulation was fresh in his memory. A few misfiring neurons did the rest.
JANEWAY: This Chaotic space we've entered, could it be stimulating the gene?
EMH: Possibly. The only way to make certain would be to get the ship out of here. In the meantime, the Commander will have to stay in Sickbay.
JANEWAY: Tuvok tells me you've got a mean left jab.
CHAKOTAY: Never spar with a Vulcan.
JANEWAY: How are you doing?
CHAKOTAY: I'm all right. When I was a boy, my grandfather started seeing things nobody else could see, hearing what nobody else could hear. He refused treatment. A couple of hyposprays a day, that's all he would have needed, but he was stubborn. He said his spirit was in pain, but that the wound must be honored. Crazy old man.

[Bridge]
KIM: Ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Seven. Bring the grid back online.
SEVEN (voiceover): Stand by.
KIM: We've got sensors. Scanning to one hundred thousand kilometers, seven hundred thousand.
TUVOK: Sensors are stable to one million kilometers. We won't be able to scan any further.
JANEWAY: Are you picking up anything at that range?
KIM: No planets, no asteroid fields, no sink holes.
PARIS: Good enough for me.
JANEWAY: Set a course dead ahead, one quarter impulse. Sensor status?
TUVOK: Continuing to function.
KIM: Still nothing ahead.
JANEWAY: Good. Let's increase our speed. Mister Paris, go to half impulse.
KIM: Wait! It's a ship.
TUVOK: Warp capable. It's adrift and the outer hull is damaged.
KIM: No lifesigns.
JANEWAY: Let's take a closer look.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Computer, let's hear that again.
ALIEN (voiceover): Why won't you answer? Did you give up on me for being so late? It's not my fault. We got lost in here. Why do the stars make such a noise? Let me sleep! I don't understand them, I don't want to talk to them. I just want to go home.
TUVOK: That was the final distress call.
EMH: According to the vessel's medical records, the Captain and one of his engineers started hallucinating after they entered this space. The physician on board never found a way to treat them.
JANEWAY: How long were they stranded here?
KIM: Almost a year. Eventually their systems were compromised.
EMH: They died of exposure.
KIM: The sensors in that ship are more advanced than ours, and they couldn't find a way out.
JANEWAY: Let's hold our position until we get a better idea of what we're up against.
TORRES: It looks like that's what they did.
PARIS: Along the way, a couple of them started sounding just like Chakotay.
EMH: I can't believe that's a coincidence.
TUVOK: Then why hasn't anyone else been affected?
EMH: That's a question I can't answer. Not yet. Request permission to beam their captain's body on board. I'd like to perform an autopsy.
JANEWAY: Granted. Pull the sensor technology off that ship. Use it to enhance ours. We're going to need all the help we can get.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I made a deep scan of the alien's brain tissue and sensory organs. The optic and auditory neurons have been partially stripped of their normal protein insulation. The result, auditory and visual hallucinations.
JANEWAY: The same symptoms as Chakotay, but a different cause.
EMH: Exactly. In this case the gene responsible for producing protein insulation was shut down.
CHAKOTAY: By what?
EMH: There might be something in Chaotic space that reacts with DNA, alters it. But why it targeted him specifically and now you I can't say.
JANEWAY: Is there a treatment?
EMH: I can control the hallucinations using a neural suppressant, but unless I can find a way to deactivate that gene of yours
CHAKOTAY: I need to go on a vision quest. Captain?
EMH: That's not the best idea right now. A vision quest taps directly into your frontal cortex. It could agitate your mind.
CHAKOTAY: Or help me control it.
JANEWAY: Permission granted.
EMH: Very well. I will ask you to wear a cortical monitor. It'll help me keep track of your vital signs.

[Chakotay's quarters]
CHAKOTAY: A-koo-chee-moya. I am far from the sacred places of my grandfathers, I am far from the bones of my people. But perhaps there is a powerful being who will embrace me and give me the answers I seek.

[Vision quest - forest]
CHAKOTAY: Grandfather! what are you doing here?
GRANDFATHER: I, er seem to be lost. Just a little lost.
CHAKOTAY: You didn't take your medicine this morning.
GRANDFATHER: Which medicine are you talking about? There are many medicines.
CHAKOTAY: The one the hospital gave us.
GRANDFATHER: Oh, that one.
CHAKOTAY: Where are you going?
GRANDFATHER: My spirit doesn't want that medicine.
CHAKOTAY: I don't care what your spirit wants. You're going to take it.
GRANDFATHER: I don't think so.
CHAKOTAY: Come with me back to the house.
GRANDFATHER: Now why would I want to do that? It's better where I'm going. It's more interesting.
CHAKOTAY: Where are you going?
GRANDFATHER: To the place where my spirit lives.
CHAKOTAY: Grandfather! Where are you? Answer me!
COMPUTER: Begin round one.

[Vision quest - boxing ring]
COMPUTER: Begin round one.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: The aliens. They were there, watching me.
EMH: Inside your vision quest?
CHAKOTAY: They were trying to tell me something.
EMH: What was it?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know.
EMH: Are they with you now? Can you hear them?
CHAKOTAY: Yes.
EMH: Let them speak to you.
CHAKOTAY: No! They'll make me go crazy.
EMH: You're not going crazy. They're doing this for a reason. You've got to trust them. Stop fighting. Open your mind. Let go. Listen.
CHAKOTAY: Chaotic space intersects ours at the eighteenth dimensional gradient. Voyager entered through a trimetric fracture.
EMH: Trimetric fracture?
CHAKOTAY: We must escape, or we'll be destroyed.
EMH: How do we escape?
CHAKOTAY: We've got to alter our warp field.
EMH: In what way?
CHAKOTAY: Rentrillic projectory.
EMH: Rentrillic?
CHAKOTAY: It doesn't make any sense. I can't understand it. I'm scared I'm losing my mind.
EMH: Try to focus!
CHAKOTAY: It's too much! I can't! It's too much!
EMH: Chakotay!
CHAKOTAY: Get them out!
JANEWAY: First contact?
EMH: It was brief, but he definitely communicated with them.
JANEWAY: Rentrillic trajectory.
EMH: Unfortunately, they never got around to explaining what that meant.
JANEWAY: Could be some sort of alien geometry, but we'll need much more. Is it safe for him to try to make contact again?
EMH: Medically speaking, yes. The problem is convincing the Commander of that.
JANEWAY: I realize you're frightened, but you're our only hope out of this place. You think this could risk your sanity, but your sanity won't do you any good if we remain in Chaotic space. I need you to keep trying, Chakotay. Will you keep trying? Keep me posted.
EMH: Are you ready to continue? Try to focus on the alien voices, tell me what they're saying.
CHAKOTAY: I can't hear them.
EMH: Are you sure? Listen carefully. Maybe we can return you to a more receptive frame of mind. Think back to when you first heard them in the vision quest. What were you doing? Where were you?
CHAKOTAY: In their boxing ring. A strange ring.
EMH: Was anyone else there?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. My opponent, Kid Chaos.
EMH: Describe him.

[Chaotic boxing ring]
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, move into position.
TUVOK: Thompson and Sharr, target the midsection. Ensign MacAlister, you and I will aim for the head.
CHAKOTAY: Set your phasers to kill.
BOOTHBY: Not exactly the Marquis of Queensberry rules, now, is it? Set to kill? That's not even Starfleet! Put down the weapons, son.
TUVOK: Tactical advice from an Academy groundskeeper? We fire at your command, sir.
BOOTHBY: Give that order and you'll be out for the count, the whole lot of you.
CHAKOTAY: Lower your weapons.
TUVOK: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I said, stand down.
PARIS: We've just heard from Vegas, Mars and Orion Three. The odds are running thirty three to one that he'll outpoint you. Eleven to one that you'll be k-o'ed by the fifth. Subspace radio is calling it the Disaster in the Delta. We can still scratch the card. I'll call the Doctor. We'll get you out on a medical.
BOOTHBY: He's trying to hornswoggle us. Double check those calculations.
CHAKOTAY: Let me see that PADD.
PARIS: No. Fine, don't want to trust your friends? You're on your own.
NEELIX: I'm filing a grievance with the Delta Quadrant Boxing Commission. This bout came out of nowhere. There's some scheduling mix-up. You haven't had the time to train, you're not ready. If you fight now, you'll be destroyed!
CHAKOTAY: I can't fight now. I'm not ready for this! I can't stay here!

[Chaotic Bridge]
KIM: I follow your example, learn from you, look up to you. I don't want to lose that.
CHAKOTAY: You'll find another role model. You'll be okay.
JANEWAY: You're my First Officer. Your duty is to this crew. If something happens to me, you've got to get Voyager home.
TUVOK: Tuvok can take command.
TORRES: You're being selfish, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: I'm doing this for you, for all of you!
EMH (screen): A delusion. Dementia puglistica. You're punch-drunk, Commander.

[Chaotic ringside]
EMH: A hard shot to the head and neck collapses the carotid artery and cuts the flow of blood to the brain. The hook. The head and neck twist laterally, traumatizing the cerebral tissue. And who can forget the upper cut? The head snaps back, rupturing tissue in the cerebellum and upper spinal cord. Yes! And the result of all this poetry in motion? Neurologic dysfunction, chronic traumatic encephalopathy, loss of balance and coordination, loss of memory. Starting to sound familiar?
NEELIX: Chakotay's fine. He just needs a little conditioning, that's all.
EMH: He needs to listen to his doctor and not to his fantasies. Step into that arena and you'll become what you most fear.
NEELIX: What are you talking about?
EMH: He knows what I mean, don't you, Chakotay? Hmm?
NEELIX: What's wrong?
EMH: Victory. Defeat. Knockout. TKO. It's all beside the point. We know how it really ends. A crazy old man. It's your fate, your destiny. There's no escape.

[Chaotic Engineering]
NEELIX: You just got to do your best. You can't let yourself give into your fears.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not afraid.
NEELIX: Who said you were?

[Vision Quest - Forest]
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry! Please, come back!
GRANDFATHER: They got away.
CHAKOTAY: Grandfather, where did you go?
GRANDFATHER: Some people were shouting at me. They were going for a walk. They wanted me to come along. It's hard to follow them. Oh, God, they go to strange places.
CHAKOTAY: I'm supposed to be watching you. We're going to get in trouble if we don't go back home.
GRANDFATHER: Be a good boy and go. We understand.
CHAKOTAY: You have to come with me.
GRANDFATHER: They say you can come with us.
CHAKOTAY: There's nobody else here.
GRANDFATHER: They say you're just like we are.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not! I'm not like you!
GRANDFATHER: It's not so bad. When you get used to it, they're not so bad. They're just a lot of talk. Sometimes I wish they were more quiet, but they like to talk.
CHAKOTAY: Come home.
GRANDFATHER: Oh, I'm too tired. This is a nice place. A nice place to call home.
COMPUTER: Begin round one.
GRANDFATHER: Did you hear that?
CHAKOTAY: No.
GRANDFATHER: Yes, you did. There's a lot of them this time.
CHAKOTAY: Tell them to go away!
GRANDFATHER: Go away! They've got other ideas.
CHAKOTAY: I have to go home.
GRANDFATHER: They, they're coming for you.
MC (voiceover): The challenger, Chakotay!

[Chaotic boxing ring]
BOOTHBY: Better late than never. They almost scrubbed the bout.
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid.
BOOTHBY: I know you are. You'd be a liar if you said anything else.
CHAKOTAY: But I've always been afraid.
BOOTHBY: I know that too.
MC (voiceover): The Champion, Kid Chaos!
EMH: That's it! All over! The fight's been canceled on medical grounds. Put them down, let's go. I hear there's some bear-baiting at the arena next door. Have fun.

[Chakotay's quarters]
PARIS: He's coming out of it.
CHAKOTAY: You stopped the fight.
PARIS: You were stuck in the vision quest.
CHAKOTAY: I've got to go back.
EMH: You're going nowhere but Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Let me go.
PARIS: Calm down. It's over for you.
CHAKOTAY: No, let me get in the ring.
PARIS: Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Let me back in the ring. Let me

[Bridge]
KIM: Two hundred thousand kilometers.
JANEWAY: Launch another beacon.
TUVOK: Beacon launched.
KIM: I'm reading a shift of point zero zero three in the graviton shear.
JANEWAY: Status.
TUVOK: Shields holding.
PARIS: Speed is steady at one quarter impulse.
JANEWAY: Maintain course and heading, Mister Paris.
KIM: Sensors are functioning. Our course is still clear.
PARIS: Captain, I recommend we go to three quarters impulse.
TUVOK: Increasing power to the engines could affect Chaotic space. There are too many unknowns.
PARIS: At this speed we should see daylight in about two months. The longer we're in Chaotic space, the longer we're exposed to these unknowns.
TUVOK: His logic is undeniable, Captain. We should increase our speed.
PARIS: Finally.
JANEWAY: Who am I to dispute logic?
KIM: Take a look at this.
KIM: It's the first beacon we launched three hours ago.
PARIS: We've been going in circles?
TUVOK: To be precise, one large circle.
JANEWAY: Hold our position.
PARIS: All stop.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: Report.
SEVEN: I've applied ten thousand fifty three algorithms to the energy signatures produced by Chaotic space. There is a pattern.
JANEWAY: Order to chaos?
SEVEN: Observe. An isolinear frequency.
JANEWAY: Some kind of signal?
SEVEN: I haven't located the source. It may be natural. A star or quasar that's managed to survive in chaotic space.
JANEWAY: But it could be a transmission.
SEVEN: Possibly.
JANEWAY: Have you tried the standard language decryptions?
SEVEN: All of them, with no success.
JANEWAY: Success seems to be in short supply lately. Oh! Impossible.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: And to think that kept me from getting an A.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: It was the only question I missed in exogenetics my senior year.
EMH: The nucleotide resonance frequency.
JANEWAY: That signal was designed to activate DNA.
EMH: It realigned his molecular bonds.
CHAKOTAY: Now do you believe me? They're the ones who scheduled the fight. They're promoting it. They're putting up the purse.
EMH: His sensory cortex is hyperactive. He's still hallucinating.
CHAKOTAY: It's not an hallucination, not a vision quest. It's a prize-fight!
JANEWAY: Chakotay, do you know me? Do you know where you are?
CHAKOTAY: I know you, Captain. But you stopped the fight. You ruined my career. Nobody will put me on the card after this!
JANEWAY: It's better for you to rest, Chakotay, until we can figure out why this is happening to you.
CHAKOTAY: They want to contact me.
JANEWAY: Who does?
CHAKOTAY: The people who live here.
EMH: This will sedate him.
JANEWAY: Wait a minute. You believe somebody lives here, in Chaotic space, and they're trying to communicate with you?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. I saw him.
JANEWAY: Tell me about him. What does he look like?
CHAKOTAY: He's got a couple of kilos on me, a few centimeters in height, but I can take him, Captain. I just have to stay off the ropes.
EMH: The Holodeck boxing simulation is still strong in his memory. Obviously, it's the primary source of imagery for his hallucinations.
JANEWAY: What if those hallucinations are being induced for a purpose? Aliens who exist on some perceptual wavelength that our senses can't detect, and the only way for them to communicate with us is to alter our senses. Chakotay's bad gene gave them the opportunity.
EMH: What are you proposing?
JANEWAY: Remember the derelict ship? Two of their crewmembers claimed they were seeing things. Was somebody trying to communicate with them? Was somebody trying to warn them, help them?
EMH: Or trying to destroy them, just as they're trying to destroy us.
JANEWAY: Why go through all the trouble? We're trapped here anyway.
CHAKOTAY: Let me back in the ring.
EMH: Even if this is some kind of alien communication it could harm him. Permanently.
TUVOK (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Tuvok.
TUVOK (voiceover): Graviton shear has increased again. Hull pressure is rising.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way.
CHAKOTAY: Captain. When have we ever turned away from a first contact?
JANEWAY: Send him back in the ring.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: Some kind of spatial sinkhole just opened up beneath us.
JANEWAY: Full thrusters. Status?
PARIS: We managed to side-step that one but graviton shear has increased by another three hundred and ten percent.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Sickbay here.
JANEWAY (voiceover): It's now or never.
EMH: Understood, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: I've got to get in there. They're about to ring the bell.
EMH: I'm going to subject you to a field that will enhance the nucleotide bonds. The gene should become fully activated. Do you understand?
CHAKOTAY: I understand.
EMH: Find us a way out of here.
CHAKOTAY: I'll try.

[Chaotic boxing ring]
BOOTHBY: Good idea. Keep him waiting. Let him sweat it out.
MC (voiceover): In this corner, representing the Alpha Quadrant, Earth and Humanity. The challenger, Chakotay!
BOOTHBY: Everybody loves an underdog.
MC (voiceover): And on this corner, champion of the Delta Quadrant, Kid Chaos!
CHAKOTAY: Looks like he's got a lot of upper body strength. A real puncher.
BOOTHBY: Just keep your elbow low when you throw the right, and don't come in too straight. You'll be okay.
CHAKOTAY: Where's the scouting report? We don't know anything about this guy. I don't know who I'm up against!
BOOTHBY: You're up against yourself, that's all you've got to remember. And don't raise the elbow.
COMPUTER: Begin round one.
CHAKOTAY: Boothby, where are you?
BOOTHBY: Still here, son. I'm not going anywhere.
EMH: You
JANEWAY: Are
PARIS: Far from where
EMH: You
GRANDFATHER: Call home.
EMH: You
JANEWAY: Are
GRANDFATHER: Lost.
EMH: Do you understand?
CHAKOTAY: Yes. We are far from home. We are lost.
JANEWAY: Our
GRANDFATHER: Home
SEVEN: Is here.
JANEWAY: Our
GRANDFATHER: Home
SEVEN: Is here.
JANEWAY: In Chaotic space.
SEVEN: Chaotic space.
EMH: Chaotic space.
BOOTHBY: Hang in there, son. Protect your head.
CHAKOTAY: I understand!
TUVOK: We are too
EMH: Alien
PARIS: For you
TUVOK: We are too
SEVEN: Strange
PARIS: For you.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we're the ones who are too alien, too strange.
JANEWAY: If
EMH: You
BOOTHBY: Stay
JANEWAY: In Chaotic space
SEVEN: Chaotic space.
EMH: Chaotic space.
NEELIX: You'll be destroyed!
CHAKOTAY: We know that, but we can't navigate. Our sensors don't work in your space.
BOOTHBY: Twenty more seconds. Don't go down.
EMH: Your
KIM: Sensors must be.
EMH: Realigned.
CHAKOTAY: How can I?
EMH: Your mind
KIM: Must be
EMH: Realigned. Realigned. Realigned. Your mind
KIM: Must be.
EMH: Realigned.
CHAKOTAY: I understand.
COMPUTER: End round one.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: Get them out!
EMH: Let go, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I can't take any more punches!
EMH: They aren't hitting you!
CHAKOTAY: Duck, feint, clinch.
EMH: Stop fighting!
CHAKOTAY: I can't. They'll destroy me.
EMH: That's a risk you'll have to take.
CHAKOTAY: You take the damn risk.
EMH: They want you.
CHAKOTAY: Why?
EMH: Because you have the gene.
CHAKOTAY: The crazy gene.
EMH: Yes, the crazy gene. The aliens are trying to speak to you, and the only thing keeping you from understanding them is your own fear. Your fear of losing control, your fear of the unknown.
CHAKOTAY: The unknown. And I don't want to know.
EMH: But we have to know, or we're all going to die. Allow yourself to hear them for just a few moments. Do it for us.
CHAKOTAY: What will happen to me when they're done?
EMH: You'll be on Voyager, surrounded by friends.
CHAKOTAY: I can't understand them.
EMH: You will.
CHAKOTAY: They're talking too fast. Too many words.
EMH: Try to focus on one word at a time.
CHAKOTAY: Too many words.
EMH: Don't stop.
CHAKOTAY: I'm scared. I don't want to die.
EMH: They won't hurt you. No one will hurt you.
CHAKOTAY: Eighteenth gradient. Trimetric fracture.
EMH: Keep going.
CHAKOTAY: We have to modify our deflector. We have to induce a paralateral rentrillic trajectory.
EMH: How do we do that?
CHAKOTAY: I think I understand. It's making sense.
EMH: Where are you going?
CHAKOTAY: I can make the adjustments myself. I have to get to the bridge. I don't know how much longer I can keep it in my mind.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Commander.
JANEWAY: What happened?
CHAKOTAY: He's got a right uppercut almost knocked me out. Move over, Harry.
JANEWAY: Hang on, Ensign.
CHAKOTAY: They showed me how to get out.
EMH: He's hallucinating.
CHAKOTAY: Out of the way.
JANEWAY: Tell us what to do.
CHAKOTAY: I can't! It's too difficult to explain
KIM: I'm locking him out.
JANEWAY: No. Give up your post.
TUVOK: He's recalibrating the deflector dish and routing it through the sensor array.
CHAKOTAY: It must be altered.
PARIS: Captain, the graviton shear is increasing.
TUVOK: I'm reading microfractures on the hull.
CHAKOTAY: Stay and we'll be destroyed. Activate the deflector. Maximum amplitude. Bring sensors online.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: Do it.
KIM: I don't know how, but the sensors have found us a course.
CHAKOTAY: Maximum impulse, now!
PARIS: Captain, if that course is wrong, we could breach our hull.
JANEWAY: Engage.
TUVOK: We've re-entered normal space.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, resume a course to the Alpha Quadrant.
PARIS: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: When I said you should take the next day or two off, I thought you'd want to stay in your quarters with a good book.
CHAKOTAY: Boxing helps me unwind.
JANEWAY: Well in that case, report for duty first thing in the morning.
CHAKOTAY: See you then. Computer, run Chakotay training program fifteen beta.

[Holodeck - boxing program]
BOOTHBY: Ah, come for a little more punishment?
CHAKOTAY: I thought I'd spar for a few rounds.
BOOTHBY: After that last bout? Did you talk to the Doc?
CHAKOTAY: I've got a clean bill of health.
BOOTHBY: That's good enough for me. Okay. I've been watching him fight. He falls in too much when he clinches, and he moves more to his right than he does to his left.
CHAKOTAY: I'll double up on the left jabs and see what happens.
BOOTHBY: You sure you're ready for this?
CHAKOTAY: I'm ready.
BOOTHBY: Okay.
COMPUTER: Begin round one.

[Think Tank]
SAOWIN: Hello? Hello? I'm here! Hello?
SAOWIN: I'm here to see Mister Kurros. Could you?
SAOWIN: Could you tell me where to find Mister Kurros?
SAOWIN: Wait!
KURROS: Do not mind Bevvox. He can be grouchy in the morning. Welcome aboard.
SAOWIN: Thank you.
KURROS: You seem tense.
SAOWIN: No.
KURROS: This is a time for celebration. The geostability of your world has been restored, your people saved. And all because you had the wisdom to accept our help.
SAOWIN: You accomplished in days what our scientists failed to achieve in decades.
KURROS: That it not to say it was not a challenge. Finding the precise harmonic for a planetary containment field did put my colleague here to the test.
KURROS: But in the end, she prevailed.
SAOWIN: We owe you our lives.
KURROS: Solving problems is what we do. And seeing the look of gratitude in your eyes is almost reward enough. Almost.
SAOWIN: I have some bad news. Our bernicium mines were destroyed in the last series of quakes. The ore's buried under sixty gigatons of rock. We can't get to it. We hoped you'd accept this instead. A rubidium geode. Priceless. The only one ever found on our planet.
KURROS: It is rare, but hardly unique. And it is not what we agreed upon.
SAOWIN: I'm sorry, this is all we can offer you.
KURROS: You are lying. The mines collapsed, but before they did you transferred the ore to a shielded storage facility. Needless to say, we detected it.
SAOWIN: Please, we need the ore to repair our replicator systems. Without it, we'll be unable to feed our people.
KURROS: Get it to us now, or I will deactivate the containment field. Have you ever experienced a level twelve seismic event? Most violent. Quite unnerving.
SAOWIN: No! I'll have the ore transported at once. This, this was all a misunderstanding.
KURROS: Of course. It is already forgotten, my friend. Perhaps we will do business again someday.
SAOWIN: Yes.
KURROS: Show our friend back to his shuttle. I would hate for him to get lost in such an unfamiliar place.
SAOWIN: Oh! Pardon me.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Yes?
SEVEN: Captain, long range scans have detected.
JANEWAY: One second. I've wasted two hours on this thing and I'm no closer to solving it.
SEVEN: You can thank Ensign Paris for introducing the artifact to the ship.
JANEWAY: He was behind the last ship wide craze, too. Yo-yos. Now it's Sheer Lunacy. Another hour and I'll go insane.
SEVEN: The solution is quite simple. If you align
JANEWAY: No, I want to figure this out myself.
JANEWAY: You said something about long range scans?
SEVEN: They've revealed a planetoid with high concentrations of dilithium crystals.
JANEWAY: Let's take a look.

[Bridge]
KIM: Got it! False alarm.
PARIS: Keep at it, Harry.
SEVEN: We're within visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TUVOK: Initial scans reveal substantial dilithium deposits beneath the planetoid's crust.
CHAKOTAY: Full sensor sweep.
KIM: The deposits are in the upper mantle, about sixty kilometers down.
TUVOK: We'll have to use phasers to cut through the
KIM: Hold on.
JANEWAY: What is it?
KIM: Some kind of resonance wave emanating from the core. It's building fast, Captain.
JANEWAY: Right after we ran our scans? That can't be a coincidence. Back us off, Tom.
SEVEN: The planetoid is destabilizing.
CHAKOTAY: Shields.
JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: We're trapped in a cloud of meteron gas. It's collapsed our warp field and knocked the impulse engines offline.
TUVOK: A heavily armed vessel just dropped out of warp off the port bow.
SEVEN: Captain, I recognize it. It's Hazari. Species four two two eight. Technologically advanced, extremely violent. They make excellent tactical drones.
KIM: What do they want with us?
SEVEN: The Hazari are hired to capture and deliver alien vessels.
PARIS: Bounty hunters.
SEVEN: Yes.
KIM: So who hired them?
CHAKOTAY: The Malon, the Devore? We've made our share of enemies here.
KIM: They're hailing.
Y'SEK (screen): Surrender. No one need be hurt. My client would prefer your vessel intact.
JANEWAY: Who hired you?
Y'SEK (screen): That's not your concern.
JANEWAY: I'm only asking because I'm curious how much they're paying? Maybe we can do better.
Y'SEK (screen): Doubtful.
JANEWAY: We're far from defenseless. Why don't you save yourself some trouble.
Y'SEK (screen): It's no trouble.
JANEWAY: Charge phaser banks to full power.
Y'SEK (screen): Fire and you'll ignite the gas cloud. You'll be destroyed.
JANEWAY: You've left me no choice. I suggest you back off if you want to save your own ship. End transmission.
TUVOK: They are moving closer. They've locked on a tractor beam.
PARIS: Looks like they're calling your bluff, Captain. It was a bluff, wasn't it?
JANEWAY: Seven, do we still have warp power?
SEVEN: Yes, but it's useless while we remain in the gas cloud.
JANEWAY: Maybe not. Reroute every spare gigawatt to the shields. Prepare to fire phasers.
TUVOK: Our target?
JANEWAY: The gas cloud.
SEVEN: Do you believe the impact will throw us clear?
JANEWAY: If our shields hold.
PARIS: That's a big if.
JANEWAY: Go to warp one on my command. Fire.
TUVOK: Shields are holding. We're approaching the perimeter of the gas cloud.
PARIS: We're out.
JANEWAY: Warp speed.
TUVOK: No sign of pursuit.
JANEWAY: They weren't that heavily damaged. Why aren't they following us?

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: There's the reason they didn't come after us. They've got reinforcements throughout the sector.
KIM: Twenty three ships.
CHAKOTAY: And long range scans show more on the way.
KIM: Must be one hell of a reward.
TUVOK: The size of the bounty is immaterial. According to Seven of Nine, the Hazari pride themselves on honoring their agreements.
KIM: Great. Bounty hunters with a work ethic.
CHAKOTAY: There's got to be a way out, something they haven't anticipated. Download the data for the Captain. She wants to see what she can come up with on her own.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Should I have the Doctor prepare a hypospray?
JANEWAY: Excuse me?
NEELIX: So you can absorb the caffeine more directly. Save time.
JANEWAY: Point well taken. I'll make this my last cup.
NEELIX: How about trying a sounding board?
JANEWAY: Oh, you don't want that job.
NEELIX: Try me.
JANEWAY: It's these Hazari. They're like jackals, circling, feinting to draw us out while they cut off every route of escape.
NEELIX: You make them sound worse than the Borg.
JANEWAY: At least the Borg come straight at you. The Hazari wait, invite you to make mistakes. They've anticipated almost every move we can make, and the few things they seem to have missed, I'm convinced are traps. You still glad you volunteered?
NEELIX: We've faced tough odds before. You'll get us through. Goodnight.
JANEWAY: Goodnight.
KURROS: There is nothing like a good problem to spark the synapses, is there? To open the mind to new possibilities, new ways of seeing things. Of course, one must always confront self- doubt and fear, but that is a small price to pay for the exhilaration of finding the perfect solution.
JANEWAY: Who are you and what do you want?
KURROS: You have a problem, Captain. I am the solution.
JANEWAY: Security to the Mess hall. Intruder alert
KURROS: I've deactivated your communications device, Captain, but do not worry. I am not an intruder. In fact, I am not really here.
JANEWAY: A hologram.
KURROS: Nothing so crude. An isomorphic projection.
KURROS: You actually enjoy this?
JANEWAY: It's an acquired taste.
KURROS: It bears a resemblance to an Alkian confection we acquired several years ago.
JANEWAY: We?
KURROS: I am a member of a small group. Explorers, like you. But we seek out challenges, problems to be solved. Technological, biological, social, even artistic.
JANEWAY: A Think Tank.
KURROS: I like that. It's very apt. Our Think Tank is nearby. A modest vessel. I have come to offer our help with your Hazari paradox.
JANEWAY: Paradox?
KURROS: That is right. Is it an escape route or is it a trap? Do they know that you know that they know? It is the best kind of puzzle. Pure tactics, psychology.
JANEWAY: Something tells me your help comes with a price tag.
KURROS: Whatever your culture has to offer that is unique. Technology perhaps, or maybe something you would not even think to value. I would need a closer look at your database.
JANEWAY: And how do I know you aren't an Hazari trap? Maybe they're trying to lure us into an ambush, like before.
KURROS: You are wise to be suspicious, Captain. We have done some preliminary analysis on their maneuvers. It does suggest some more likely ambushes. I've downloaded the data onto your computer.
JANEWAY: All right. You've got my attention. But I want to meet you face to face. And the rest of your crew.
KURROS: Naturally. Our coordinates are in here, too. But we have our own security concerns, Captain. Please, bring only one crewman and no scanning equipment.
JANEWAY: Fair enough.
KURROS: Then I look forward to meeting you in person.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: We're approaching the coordinates.
JANEWAY: Full stop.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like there's nothing here.
KIM: Maybe they're cloaked.
SEVEN: I'm reading a subspace flux.
TUVOK: The vessel's hull is composed of a neutronium-based alloy.
JANEWAY: Starfleet's theorized about such materials, but we've never come close to producing them.
SEVEN: Neither have the Borg. The Think Tank's technology is advanced.
JANEWAY: Well, you and I will have the chance to evaluate it first hand. Mister Kim, you have the transport coordinates.

[Think Tank]
SEVEN: The universal translator must be inoperative.
JANEWAY: Or his speech patterns are too complex to process.
JANEWAY: They must be studying it.
KURROS: Actually, she is studying you. Our resident expert on temporal physics. Perhaps the most gifted member of our group. She finds you interesting.
SEVEN: How do you communicate?
JANEWAY: One of my most gifted crewmen, Seven of Nine.
KURROS: Bionetic implants, neural transceivers? A Borg? I've never seen one outside the Collective.
SEVEN: I am an individual now. You may address your comments to me.
KURROS: Forgive me. I am Kurros, and this is Fennim. In answer to your earlier question, this device allows the members of our group to communicate telepathically.
SEVEN: Impressive.
KURROS: It sounds as if another member of our crew is anxious to meet you.
SEVEN: A bioplasmic lifeform.
KURROS: His name is Bevvox. He prefers a variable gravity environment.
JANEWAY: What's his specialty?
KURROS: At the moment exo-sociology and quantum mechanics, but his interests vary from time to time. Bevvox founded our group more than one hundred years ago, after wandering the galaxy on his own for a few millennia.
SEVEN: How old is this creature?
KURROS: If you please, that is a sensitive topic with him. And there is one other individual who rounds out our group.
SEVEN: An artificial intelligence.
KURROS: The mind of mathematician and the soul of an artist. I'm afraid he'd much rather be modeling a fractal sculpture than analyzing the data of our latest astronomical scan. And now you have met us all. A small group of minds, but we have helped hundreds of clients. We turned the tide in the war between the Bara Plenum and the Motali Empire. Re-ignited the red giants of the Zai Cluster. Just recently, we found a cure for the Vidiian phage.
JANEWAY: The Vidiians?
KURROS: You would hardly recognize them now. Just last month we helped retrieve a Lyridian child's runaway pet. A subspace mesomorph, I might add. We had to invent a whole new scanning technology just to find it.
JANEWAY: And what did you ask for as compensation?
KURROS: One of their transgalactic star charts. The best map of the known galaxy ever created. When we helped the citizens of Rivos Five resist the Borg, all we asked for was the recipe for their famous zoth-nut soup. Care for a taste?
SEVEN: Another time, perhaps.
JANEWAY: Tell me, is there any job you won't do?
KURROS: What do you mean?
JANEWAY: Well, we have a non-interference protocol, our Prime Directive. I'm curious where you draw the line.
KURROS: As you know, there is no shortage of conflict in what you call the Delta Quadrant. Many of our clients are at war. To be frank, we will assist in the neutralization of fleets, starbases, even planets. But we will not participate in the decimation of an entire species, nor will we design weapons of mass destruction. My colleague here wishes to speak to Seven of Nine about her bionetic technology. May he interface with you?
SEVEN: I am in direct telepathic communication with this individual. It is requesting information about integrating organic components into its technology.
JANEWAY: Feel free to give him some pointers.
SEVEN: You're welcome.
KURROS: To business, Captain. I believe we can solve the Hazari paradox without firing a single weapon.
JANEWAY: That's just what I'm looking for.
KURROS: Then there is only the matter of payment.
JANEWAY: Voyager's schematics and an overview of its database. Specify what you want and I'll see what I can do. I recommend the replicators. They're very popular this year.
KURROS: I'll contact you with our requests.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: I take it First Contact was a success?
JANEWAY: I have some qualms about their morality, but I believe they can help us.
SEVEN: It was an interesting experience.
CHAKOTAY: Glad to hear it. We don't have much good news of our own. Every escape route we've considered is clearly a trap, and more Hazari ships keep joining the search.
JANEWAY: Then we have no choice. We'll put our own plans on hold and see what the Think Tank comes up with.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
TUVOK: You have a visitor. Mister Kurros has returned in isomorphic form.
JANEWAY: Send him in. Welcome back.
KURROS: Captain, we have compiled a short list of items we would like. It was not easy. Voyager has a great deal to offer.
JANEWAY: Quantum slipstream technology. I should warn you. We never got that to work reliably.
KURROS: It is still intriguing, theoretically.
JANEWAY: Neelix's recipe for Chadre'kab?
KURROS: Yes.
JANEWAY: An ancient Olmec figurine. I guess Commander Chakotay can be persuaded to part with it.
KURROS: I am pleased to hear that.
JANEWAY: You can't be serious.
KURROS: I realize the next item may seem unorthodox, but I believe it can be beneficial to both of us.
JANEWAY: You never mentioned anything about bartering my crew members.
KURROS: She will have an extraordinary opportunity to explore the galaxy as one of us.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid the answer is no.
KURROS: I understand your feelings, Captain, but have you thought to ask Seven of Nine herself?
SEVEN: A curious proposition.
JANEWAY: To say the least.
SEVEN: How do you wish to proceed?
JANEWAY: I want your opinion.
SEVEN: They are offering us the assistance we require, I am the payment they require. The solution is obvious.
JANEWAY: This isn't a puzzle, Seven. There is no solution. What's at issue here is your future.
SEVEN: The issue is Voyager's survival.
JANEWAY: Sit. Please. While I still question this Think Tank's way of doing things, there is a genuine opportunity for exploration. It could be the chance of a lifetime.
SEVEN: You're saying I should go?
JANEWAY: I don't want you to go, but it's not my right to tell you what to do. Until now, I've kept a close eye on your progress, helped you with decisions but, I think you've learned enough as an individual to make this decision yourself. Would you like to join them?
SEVEN: I am intrigued. They are an unusual Collective with a compelling mission. But I require more data.
JANEWAY: That's why I want you to talk to Kurros yourself. See if he can answer your questions.
SEVEN: Captain, I appreciate your giving me this choice.
JANEWAY: You've earned it. And remember, if you do choose to go, make sure it's what you want, not what you think is best for Voyager. We're getting out of this, with or without the Think Tank's help.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Why me?
KURROS: I admire your humility. The collective knowledge of the Borg contained within a single mind. When we factor in your innate intelligence and the enhancements afforded you by your bionetic implants, we concluded you are an ideal candidate. The first we have recruited in seventeen years.
SEVEN: When did you arrive at this assessment?
KURROS: During your interview.
SEVEN: My dialogue with the artificial intelligence.
KURROS: It was the most efficient way to evaluate your abilities. I am sure you can appreciate that.
SEVEN: How much do you know about me?
KURROS: Enough to know that you are tapping into only a fraction of your potential as a member of Voyager's crew. You were adjusting the deflector array to improve shield harmonics. Do you find such duties challenging?
SEVEN: No.
KURROS: Without problems that test the limits of your abilities, you cannot expand them. Perfection will always be beyond your reach. Seven, you could become one of the greatest intellects in the galaxy, but that will not happen here among these limited lifeforms.
SEVEN: The crew of Voyager has accepted me, integrated me into their Collective.
KURROS: They are your family. It was hard for me to leave my family, too. And I was only a child. Not much older than you when you were first assimilated.
SEVEN: Why did you leave?
KURROS: To help them and my world solve a cataclysmic problem.
SEVEN: The Think Tank requested you as payment.
KURROS: I did not realize it at first. I was too young. But they gave me a remarkable opportunity, and now I am offering the same to you.
SEVEN: Your group can assist many Collectives, and yet you often use that ability as a means of coercion to obtain what you want. How many have suffered because they were unwilling to agree to your conditions?
KURROS: We have a singular mission, to perfect our knowledge. Perfection sometimes necessitates selfishness. It is your life. Not Voyager's, not Captain Janeway's or anyone else's. It is up to you to achieve the goals you have set for yourself.
SEVEN: I agree, but I can do that here.
KURROS: Please, take more time to think about this. We will remain nearby in case you change your mind.
SEVEN: I doubt that will happen.
TUVOK (voiceover): Seven of Nine, report to the bridge.
SEVEN: Acknowledged.
KURROS: May I accompany you?
SEVEN: As you wish.

[Bridge]
KURROS: Do you have a problem, Captain?
JANEWAY: Two Hazari ships are approaching.
SEVEN: I have declined their offer.
KURROS: Our first offer.
JANEWAY: Glad you're sticking around. Take your station.
TUVOK: They are dropping out of warp, flanking our position.
JANEWAY: Which one fired?
TUVOK: The ship to starboard. Shields down to sixty percent.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive maneuvers. Target their weapons systems and return fire.
TUVOK: Their shields are holding.
PARIS: I can't get away. They're right on top of us.
KIM: Hull integrity's been compromised on decks seven and twelve.
KURROS: Captain, when the Hazari strike in pairs, one ship always remains behind to reinforce the shields of the attacking vessel.
JANEWAY: So we should target the support ship. How much is this tip going to cost me?
KURROS: This one is free.
JANEWAY: I'll take it. Tuvok.
TUVOK: Retargeting. Firing photon torpedoes. They are disengaging.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here, maximum warp. Thanks for the help.
KURROS: Consider it a friendly gesture of goodwill in the hopes that Seven will change her mind.
SEVEN: I have not.
KURROS: You are making a fatal mistake. We have already analyzed hundreds of scenarios. Voyager will not survive without our help.
JANEWAY: Your scenarios, not mine.
KURROS: Your confidence is unfounded, Captain. Reconsider. Order Seven of Nine to join us.
JANEWAY: We have an old expression, Kurros. Don't call us, we'll call you. Remodulate the shields to a phase variance frequency.
TUVOK: His ship is vanishing from sensors. It's being absorbed into subspace.
CHAKOTAY: I get the distinct feeling they won't take no for an answer.
JANEWAY: Same here. Looks like we're facing two threats now. The Hazari and our would-be saviors.

[Think Tank]
KURROS: Our offer was denied. How shall we proceed?
FENNIM: We are already proceeding.
ALIEN IN TANK: Our offer was refused. We must let the scenario continue.
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE: Our calculations indicate a ninety six percent chance the Borg will still be ours.
KURROS: Then it is decided. We will wait and let our problem solve itself.

[Hazari vessel]
Y'SEK: Duranium hull fragments, a thruster assembly, human organic residue. We were supposed to disable their ship, not destroy it.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: They've entered the debris field.
JANEWAY: Detonate the spatial charges.
TUVOK: Their vessel has taken heavy damage. Shields and weapons are offline.
JANEWAY: Move us into position. Lock on a tractor beam and pull them into the shuttlebay.
PARIS: We're in transporter range.
KIM: I've got a lock. Two lifeforms.
JANEWAY: Energize.

[Hazari vessel]
JANEWAY: Any luck?
CHAKOTAY: I'm still trying to access their primary database.
JANEWAY: Let me guess. They're the strong but silent types.
TUVOK: Very silent.
CHAKOTAY: Did you try a mind meld?
TUVOK: Without success. They are unusually resistant.
JANEWAY: Well, hold off on the torture till we see what we can dig up here.
CHAKOTAY: I've found something. A series of encoded transmissions.
JANEWAY: They've been discussing Voyager. Our coordinates, our defenses.
TUVOK: Whoever hired the Hazari know a lot about us.
JANEWAY: Check these sensor logs. See if they had any visitors recently.
CHAKOTAY: I've got some bioreadings, but they're pretty scrambled.
TUVOK: If they are bioreadings, perhaps the Doctor can unscramble them.
JANEWAY: Tell him to give it a try.

[Medical lab]
EMH: I've created a forensic reconstruction from the bioreadings, using the holoemitters. Brace yourselves.
JANEWAY: Malon. Huh, they must really hold a grudge. We haven't run into them for months. I'm sorry, Doctor, something doesn't feel right.
TUVOK: The Malon are economically motivated.
JANEWAY: And there's no profit in revenge. Take a look at this. Isomorphic signatures embedded in the bioreadings. This was no Malon, it was only a projection.
EMH: You mean that's a hologram of a hologram?
TUVOK: In a manner of speaking. I believe I can restore the original biosignal parameters. Brace yourself.
JANEWAY: Well, it appears our Hazari paradox is more complex than we thought.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: I believe we're both being manipulated by the same person. Recognize him?
Y'SEK: No.
JANEWAY: His name is Kurros, The Malon you met with was nothing more than a projection.
Y'SEK: My sensors would have detected a hologram.
JANEWAY: Not this one. Kurros is a member of a Think Tank. They solve problems for a price. Oh, you have heard of them.
Y'SEK: They're notorious in this sector. They've made quite a few enemies.
JANEWAY: Enemies who might be willing to pay a hell of a bounty.
Y'SEK: Their technology is very advanced. It makes them difficult to track.
JANEWAY: Not if we work together. You're the best hunters in the quadrant and we have the perfect lure. All we have to do now is out-think the Think Tank.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: We've got a puzzle and we're not leaving this room until we solve it. The Think Tank is out there somewhere, hiding in subspace. How do we find them? And even if we can, their ship's hull is neutronium-based alloy, impervious to our weapons. How do we capture them?
KIM: What if we send out a multispatial probe?
TORRES: It would take weeks of scanning to find them.
Y'SEK: Weeks? We're not willing to wait that long.
TUVOK: We could use subspatial charges to force them into the open.
CHAKOTAY: Where do we target the charges? We've still got to find them first.
JANEWAY: Maybe we're going about this the wrong way. A direct assault seems unlikely to succeed. Pure tactics, psychology. That's how they solve problems. That's what we have to do. They've created this paradox to manipulate us into giving them Seven of Nine. How do we manipulate them? Think.
NEELIX: I thought we were onto something with B'Elanna's plan
TORRES: Forget it. I was wrong.
PARIS: Let him talk.
EMH: We're talking in circles.
Y'SEK: Enough! Three hours, no progress. I should have contacted my ships by now.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can't out-think them.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: We have to assume they've planned for every contingency, including anything we could come up with to undermine their plan. This thing has been driving me crazy. You said you knew the solution. Prove it.
JANEWAY: Seven, how'd you do that?
SEVEN: I scanned the device. Its mechanism operates on a simple fractal regression.
PARIS: You scanned it? That's cheating.
SEVEN: Cheating is often more efficient.
JANEWAY: If you can't solve a puzzle, cheat. If you can't out-think a Think Tank, don't try.
NEELIX: Are you suggesting we give up?
JANEWAY: Not at all. When you were in contact with the artificial intelligence, you were linked through their internal communications array.
SEVEN: Yes, for several seconds.
JANEWAY: If you were to link with them again, we might be able to disrupt those systems. If they can't communicate, they can't function as a Think Tank. They'd be vulnerable.
EMH: Back to square one. How do we find them?
JANEWAY: Simple. We give them what they want. You're going to join their group willingly.
Y'SEK: They won't believe her.
JANEWAY: We'll have to make them believe. Pull up a chair. We've got some more work to do.

[Think Tank]
INTELLIGENCE: An Hazari vessel is sending hails into subspace. It's trying to contact us.
KURROS: Put them through.

[Hazari vessel]
HAZARI: They're responding.
KURROS (screen): Hazari vessel, we have received your hails. Can we be of assistance?
Y'SEK: You deceived us.
KURROS (screen): I do not believe we have met.
Y'SEK: Stop the pretense. You wanted us to deliver Voyager. Very well. But only if you triple our bounty.
KURROS (screen): My friend, regardless of the circumstances, we have a contract.
Y'SEK: Pay us, or we let Voyager go.
KURROS (screen): All right, we will triple the bounty. But you must deliver them to us now.
Y'SEK: Agreed. We'll contact the rest of our ships. We'll seize Voyager as planned.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Shields down to thirty percent.
JANEWAY: Return fire.
TUVOK: Our phasers aren't penetrating their shields.
KIM: That last volley took out our shield generators and phaser banks.
TUVOK: Life support's failing, all decks.
KURROS: Let us be honest, Captain. Things do not seem to be going your way.
JANEWAY: Don't count us out just yet.
KURROS: I admit you have been clever. You uncovered our subterfuge, but you failed to factor in all the variables. The greed of the Hazari, for example.
JANEWAY: Photon torpedoes?
TUVOK: Aft launchers are still online.
JANEWAY: Target a full spread at the lead Hazari ship.
KURROS: A few torpedoes will not alter the outcome. If you do not convince Seven of Nine to join us now, the destruction of your ship is ninety nine point eight percent certain.
JANEWAY: Fire.
TUVOK: Direct hit. It's been disabled.
KURROS: Clinging to that point two percentage? Hazari reinforcements should be here any minute.
PARIS: He's right. Sensors just picked up a half dozen ships on an intercept course.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I'm detecting an unauthorized shuttle launch. It's Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: What the hell is she doing?
KURROS: I believe she's saving your ship.
KIM: She's not answering hails. Her shuttle's being pulled into subspace. She's gone.
KURROS: Have a safe journey home, Captain.

[Think Tank]
KURROS: Seven of Nine, welcome.
SEVEN: Your hospitality is irrelevant. I am here because you left me no choice.
KURROS: You gave into your human instincts to save your crew, as we knew you would. Just another factor in our equation.
SEVEN: If Voyager is destroyed, I will not cooperate.
KURROS: Do not worry. The solution to the Hazari paradox is quite simple.

[Hazari vessel]
KURROS (screen): We have what we want. Call off your attack.
Y'SEK: Not until we've been compensated.
KURROS (screen): Fine, but first order your other vessels to stand down.
Y'SEK: Now, or we'll destroy Voyager.

[Think Tank]
KURROS: Why is he in such a hurry?
SEVEN: Comply.
KURROS: If we decloak, we would be vulnerable. The Hazari could make quite a bounty on us. Far more than we are paying them.
SEVEN: Their technology is inferior to yours. They would never attack you directly.
KURROS: I think this is a trap, a new paradox your Captain has created for us. If we call their bluff, the Hazari might destroy Voyager, and we would lose you. If we reveal ourselves, we could be destroyed.
SEVEN: You told me, without problems to test the limits of your ability, you can never expand them.
KURROS: There is one very simple way to narrow the odds. We simply link you to our communications system, allow our artificial intelligence to probe your mind as it did before, and Captain Janeway's plans will be revealed, like a jewel in a bed of fog.

[Medical lab]
EMH: Sickbay to bridge. Seven's neural transceiver has been activated.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. Do it.
TUVOK: I'm transmitting the carrier wave.

[Think Tank]
KURROS: Voyager is sending an interference signal into our systems using her cortical implants as a relay. Disconnect the link.
KURROS: Disconnect the link.
SEVEN: They can't understand you.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Voyager to Hazari vessels. Their systems are down. Fire the spatial charges.

[Think Tank]
SEVEN: We seem to be experiencing some turbulence.
KURROS: Primitive spatial charges. I will have the dome back online before they can do any damage.
KURROS: We're being pulled out of subspace.

[Bridge]
KIM: I've got a lock on Seven.
JANEWAY: Initiate transport.
TUVOK: The Hazari vessels are converging on the Think Tank.
JANEWAY: Tom.
PARIS: Setting a course.
KURROS: I urge you to reconsider, Captain.
JANEWAY: A good guest knows when he's outstayed his welcome.
KURROS: We can still negotiate a peaceful solution. Do not destroy my faith in diplomacy.
JANEWAY: Your diplomacy could use some polishing.
KURROS: You know you will never be satisfied here among these people. Is this what you really want?
SEVEN: Acquiring knowledge is a worthy objective, but its pursuit has obviously not elevated you.
JANEWAY: Looks like your ship's having difficulties.
KURROS: A minor problem.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm sure you'll find a solution. Just give it some thought.

[Malon Freighter control room]
PELK: Zeeesh. Alert, alert, decompression on platform six eight four. Brace for hull rupture. Thrusters are down. We're going to crash! Ahhh. Hey, what do you think? Look at the detail on the dorsal plating.
FESEK: Impressive. Are you sure you're willing to part with it?
PELK: I just hope your boy enjoys it as much as I do.
FESEK: I'm certain he will, if we make it home in time for his birthday.
PELK: We'll make it.
FESEK: If you and Savar had a child of your own, you'd have an excuse to play with toys more often.
PELK: I'm detecting a fluctuation in tank four. There's a full scale rupture in progress.
FESEK: Isolate the deck. Activate the emergency containment field.
PELK: The emergency systems are offline.
FESEK: Backup controls are down too. Eject the tank.
PELK: Here? There's an inhabited system.
FESEK: We have no choice!
PELK: The ejection ports aren't responding.
FESEK: Impossible.
DREMK: There's another rupture forming in tank six.
FESEK: We'll have to send somebody down there to seal off the tanks manually. Contact the theta core.
PELK: Communications are down.
FESEK: Get down to the injector pod and seal those tanks.
DREMK: I didn't sign up for core labor.
FESEK: I'm giving you an order.
DREMK: I'll be contaminated.
FESEK: Now!

[Tuvok's quarters]
TUVOK: The flame, like emotion, is a primitive force. Left unchecked, it's chaotic, destructive. But if controlled it can be a powerful tool. The lamp controls the flame, as you must learn to control your emotions.
TORRES: I lost my temper. No big deal.
TUVOK: You destroyed the Doctor's holographic camera.
TORRES: I told him three times to leave Engineering, but he kept buzzing around snapping pictures for some photo essay.
TUVOK: A day in the life of the warp core.
TORRES: I apologized, and I replicated him a new camera.
TUVOK: You have a long history of emotional volatility. The point of this exercise is not to atone for past transgressions, but to prevent future ones.
TORRES: You can't order someone to meditate.
TUVOK: Commander Chakotay thinks otherwise.
TORRES: Are my eyes supposed to be open or closed for this part.
TUVOK: Whichever allows you to focus your mind.
TUVOK: Envision the flame burning within you.
TORRES: Sorry.
TUVOK: The flame grows hotter. A point of white light. Follow it backward through the years to a time when you were younger, a child. Is there something amusing, Lieutenant?
TORRES: I'm sorry, an image just flashed through my mind. You as a child, those pointy little ears. You must have been cute.
TUVOK: Indeed. Please follow my instructions or we'll discontinue this exercise.
TORRES: Right. Me, childhood. How old?
TUVOK: Your earliest memories. Try to recall a time when you experienced uncontrollable anger.
TORRES: Daniel Byrd.
TUVOK: I beg your pardon?
TORRES: He was one of my classmates in grammar school. He was always terrorizing me. He used to point at my cranial ridges and tease me about being half Klingon. He called me Miss Turtlehead.
TUVOK: That angered you.
TORRES: Of course, it did. So I attacked him once, during recess, on the gyro-swing. I disengaged the centrifugal governor. He was spinning so fast, he almost flew apart. Then I yanked him off the swing and started pounding his little face! If Miss Malvin hadn't showed up, I probably would have
TUVOK: Describe the anger you felt at that moment.
TORRES: I, I wanted to hurt him. To take revenge for all the humiliation he caused me.
TUVOK: Your anger was a source of strength. It protected you, gave you courage.
TORRES: I suppose it did.
TUVOK: And when the Doctor tried to take a holo-photograph of you?
TORRES: I was annoyed. He kept getting in the way.
TUVOK: The rage within you runs deep. It's been with you for many years.
TORRES: I'm not a Vulcan. I'll survive.
TUVOK: Whatever you say, Miss Turtlehead.
TORRES: What did you say!
TUVOK: You're easily provoked. You must learn to master your emotions.
TORRES: I've had enough mastery for one day. School's out.

[Bridge]
PARIS: So, how'd it go with B'Elanna today?
TUVOK: Our meditation sessions are confidential.
PARIS: No, I'm not asking for sordid details. I just want to know if you think you can help her.
TUVOK: Her training will be a challenge for both of us.
PARIS: Take it from me, getting B'Elanna to control her temper is like convincing a Ferengi to leave his estate to charity.
KIM: Captain, we're receiving an automated distress call.
JANEWAY: Origin?
KIM: Coordinates one twenty one by two six eight. Range, two billion kilometers.
CHAKOTAY: Who's sending it?
KIM: I can't tell.
JANEWAY: Let them know help's on the way. Set a course, Mister Paris.
TUVOK: Thirty seven escape pods.
PARIS: They're contaminated with theta radiation.
CHAKOTAY: Malon?
JANEWAY: Possibly. Lifesigns?
KIM: Two, but they're erratic.
JANEWAY: Beam them to Sickbay. Initiate bio-hazard containment procedures.
TUVOK: Theta radiation has affected a radius of six hundred million kilometers.
JANEWAY: Source?
TUVOK: A Malon freighter traveling at high impulse. It appears to be abandoned.

[Sickbay]
TUVOK: I thought we'd seen the last of the Malon.
JANEWAY: I guess they're looking for new places to dump their toxic waste.
EMH: Do we know what happened to their ship? Were they attacked?
JANEWAY: I'm just as curious as you are. Can you revive either of them? I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway.
FESEK: Fesek. Controller Fesek. Where am I?
JANEWAY: You're on my vessel. We responded to your distress call.
FESEK: My ship?
JANEWAY: It's heavily damaged.
FESEK: Where?
TUVOK: Three million kilometers from here.
FESEK: That's too close. We've got to get further away.
JANEWAY: Calm down, calm down. Tell me what's wrong with your ship. Why did you abandon it?
FESEK: We were on a waste export mission.
TUVOK: Dumping theta radiation.
FESEK: Two of the theta tanks ruptured. Systems malfunctioned one by one, communications, navigation, propulsion. We had no choice. Radiation was venting from every port. Over sixty crewmen died within minutes. It was chaos. We stumbled through the gas to get to the escape pods. Only a few of us made it. Where are the others?
JANEWAY: The two of you were the only ones we found alive.
FESEK: Listen to me very carefully. The fact that we're still here means the ship hasn't exploded, yet. When it does, over four trillion isotons of antimatter waste is going to ignite. Everything within three light years will be destroyed.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
JANEWAY: Put at least five light years between us and the Malon freighter.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Quickly.
CHAKOTAY: You heard her, Tom.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Send out a sector wide alert.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Warn any other ships in the vicinity to

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Evacuate immediately.
PARIS: Our warp field just collapsed.
KIM: All this theta radiation. It's disrupting subspace.
CHAKOTAY: Can you reinitialize the field?
TORRES: Negative.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Tuvok. Without warp drive there's no chance we'll clear the blast radius.
TUVOK: Agreed.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, set a course for the freighter. Full impulse.
PARIS (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
FESEK: What?
JANEWAY: If we can't outrun your ship, maybe we can disable it.
FESEK: Every deck has been contaminated. Anyone who goes on board will liquefy within minutes.
JANEWAY: We'll find a way.
FESEK: We? I'm not going anywhere near that vessel.
JANEWAY: You can either stay and help us or I'll send you back to your escape pod. Your choice. Clean them up, Doctor. I need them on the bridge.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: How long until those storage tanks explode?
TORRES: Approximately six hours.
JANEWAY: Can we get an away team on board?
TUVOK: The freighter's hull is intact. Life support appears to be operational. However, thirty three of forty two decks are flooded with high levels of theta radiation.
FESEK: Including the control room, which is where we'd have to go to reestablish containment. As I told you.
TORRES: We could beam on to one of the lower levels where there's less radiation, and vent the contaminated sections one by one.
CHAKOTAY: Clear a path to the control room.
FESEK: I appreciate what you're trying to do, but if what you're considering were possible, we'd have tried it before we abandoned the ship. We have years of experience aboard freighters of this gradient.
TORRES: Your experience is what got us into this mess in the first place.
JANEWAY: That's enough, Lieutenant.
FESEK: Maybe there's another way.
JANEWAY: I'm listening.
FESEK: Four hours from here there's a nebula that could protect us from the blast. We could alter course, wait there until after the explosion.
JANEWAY: There are at least three other ships in the sector. What about them?
FESEK: I don't see what we can do.
TORRES: So hundreds of people become contaminated because you're not willing to clean up your garbage.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant. Assemble an away team. We're going over there.
PELK: Wait! Tell them about the Vihaar.
JANEWAY: What's he talking about?
FESEK: Nothing. It's a myth.
CHAKOTAY: What kind of myth?
FESEK: It's an old story shared among freighter crews. Some of them say they've seen creatures in the theta storage tanks.
TORRES: Creatures?
FESEK: Created by radiogenic waste. According to the legend, they are poisonous monsters that wreak havoc aboard Malon ships. It's a common belief among our more superstitious recruits.
PELK: I never believed it myself, but during the evacuation some of the crew people saw something. A form.
FESEK: Hallucinations are one of the first symptoms of theta poisoning. You know that.
PELK: Maybe. Then how do you explain what happened? We checked every system.
TORRES: You'd say anything to get out of going back to that freighter.
PELK: If you'd been there, you'd be afraid to go back, too.

[Engineering]
CHAKOTAY: This chamber seems to be the least affected by radiation. We'll beam in there.
PELK: That's fifteen decks below the control room.
CHAKOTAY: We'll have to work our way up.
FESEK: The pressurization systems, they're offline. How will we vent the gas?
NEELIX: There are two main airlocks on each deck. We'll open them as we go. Perform a series of controlled decompressions.
PELK: What's to stop us from being vented?
NEELIX: Forcefields. I spent six years aboard a Talaxian garbage scow. I know a few things about waste management.
PELK: Even low levels of theta radiation can be lethal.
CHAKOTAY: Our Doctor's developed an inoculation. It'll temporarily prevent our cells from absorbing the radiation.
FESEK: How long will it last?
CHAKOTAY: Two, three hours.
PELK: Half of the doors and bulkheads are fused. The ascenders are offline. It could take us twice as long as that to reach the control room.
CHAKOTAY: Then we'll have to work quickly. We'll take phasers to cut through any obstacles.
FESEK: I've ordered my men to do a lot of risky things, but nothing as foolish as this.
TORRES: More foolish than towing around a trillion isotons of toxic waste?
FESEK: We take every precaution to keep it contained.
TORRES: Until you dump it in someone's back yard.
FESEK: Is your crew always so diplomatic?
CHAKOTAY: Your concerns are noted. Get them inoculated. We'll meet you in Transporter room one.
CHAKOTAY: We're trying to avoid explosions, remember?
TORRES: Oh! Not another lecture about my emotions.
CHAKOTAY: No, a lecture about how to treat guests aboard this ship.
TORRES: Guests? Chakotay, these people are the scourge of the quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: Agreed, but right now they're our only hope of repairing that freighter, so I suggest you make friends.
TORRES: Diplomacy. Janeway's answer to everything.
CHAKOTAY: This isn't the Captain talking, it's me, and I'm giving you an order. Keep your temper in check. Understood? Understood?
TORRES: Yeah.
CHAKOTAY: I didn't hear you.
TORRES: Yes.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, I need your expertise on this mission, not your bad mood.
TORRES: I'll see what I can do.

[Mess hall]
CHAKOTAY: Ready, Neelix?
NEELIX: Ah, not quite. Do we still have a minute? It's just it's not quite strong enough yet. Would you mind passing me that little dish?
CHAKOTAY: Neelix, I admire your dedication, but the crew can figure out lunch on their own.
NEELIX: Lunch, and dinner, and a midnight snack have all been taken care of. This is for me. It's a Talaxian theta radiation remedy. Crushed rama leaf and katyllian clove. It helps fortify the cellular membranes.
CHAKOTAY: I think the Doctor's inoculation might be a better way to go.
NEELIX: Every little bit helps. Oh, by the way, thank you.
CHAKOTAY: For what?
NEELIX: For sending me on such an important mission. Not that my duties in the mess hall aren't challenging.
CHAKOTAY: It was an easy choice. You were the best man for the job.
NEELIX: Well, our scow once ran smack into a theta radiation field. Knocked the propulsion out. We had no choice but to sit there. We were barely alive when they found us. If it hadn't been for this, nobody would have survived.
NEELIX: Once you get past the choking reflex it's really not so bad. Want to try some?
CHAKOTAY: I'll take my chances.
KIM (voiceover): Transporter room one to Commander Chakotay. We're ready to proceed.
CHAKOTAY: On our way.

[Corridor]
PARIS: B'Elanna. Aren't you forgetting something?
TORRES: I don't think so.
PARIS: A goodbye would be nice. So long, see you soon, something along those lines.
TORRES: I didn't want to risk it.
PARIS: Risk what?
TORRES: Starting an argument.
PARIS: Argument? Us? So, I hear it's been a short fuse kind of day.
TORRES: About this long.
PARIS: Nothing you can't handle.
TORRES: If you think so.
PARIS: I know so.
TORRES: I suppose it's always going to be like this.
PARIS: Like what?
TORRES: Me against the galaxy.
PARIS: Well, the galaxy doesn't stand a chance. Now, promise me that you're going to be careful over there. No stopping to have fun.
TORRES: Fun? On a Malon freighter?
PARIS: See you soon.

[Malon Freighter corridor]
NEELIX: Well, it's nothing a fresh coat of paint wouldn't brighten up.
FESEK: This way.
TORRES: Theta radiation density, twenty million EV per cubic meter. Structural integrity's holding. Wish I could say the same for my lungs.
NEELIX: What was that?
CHAKOTAY: This corridor's filled with methogenic particles, highly charged.
TORRES: Something's causing an electrostatic cascade. Our scanning signals are igniting the particles. It's the tricorders!
CHAKOTAY: Take cover.
CHAKOTAY: No more tricorders.
PELK: Control mechanisms are down. We're going to have to open the airlocks manually.
FESEK: Wait here. We'll take care of it.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, go with him.
FESEK: We can do this ourselves.
CHAKOTAY: I'd prefer to keep an eye on your progress.
FESEK: You're on my freighter. I'm in charge here.
CHAKOTAY: You abandoned ship, remember? You take your orders from me.
FESEK: We'll have to crawl into an injector port. It's only big enough for two people.
CHAKOTAY: Pelk, you stay with us.
TORRES: Shall we?

[Injector port]
TORRES: How can you stand to work in these conditions?
FESEK: You think we're animals, don't you?
TORRES: You said it, not me.
FESEK: I'm a waste controller half the year. Do you know what I do the rest of the time? I'm a sculptor.
TORRES: What's your point?
FESEK: Every year I give up work I love to expose myself to radiation that will probably cut my life in half.
TORRES: Then why do it?
FESEK: Have you ever been to Malon Prime? It's a remarkable place. It's one of the most beautiful worlds you'll ever see. Our planet would choke with industrial wastes if it weren't for the sacrifices of people like me.
TORRES: How many worlds are you willing to contaminate to keep your own home so tidy?
FESEK: Do you have any idea of the trouble we go to, to locate isolated areas? Ah, manual actuators. I'll release them, you monitor the pressure variance.
TORRES: Right.
FESEK: Do you have any children?
TORRES: No.
FESEK: I have a son. He's seven years old. He wants to be a waste controller when he grows up.
TORRES: You must be very proud.
FESEK: Ready.
TORRES: Torres to Chakotay. Stand by for the decompression sequence.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Acknowledged.
TORRES: It didn't work.
FESEK: There's something jamming the airlock controls.

[Malon Freighter corridor]
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to Chakotay. We've got a problem. The actuators aren't working. Somebody's going to have to go up there and take a look.
NEELIX: Wait. That deck is still contaminated.
PELK: I'll go. I've been exposed to worse.
NEELIX: Wait.
NEELIX: One for the road.
PELK: It's probably just the decouplers. They're always getting encrusted with oxides.
PELK: Who's there?
PELK: Help! Help! Help!
PELK: I saw it. I saw it.
CHAKOTAY: What?
PELK: The creature.
NEELIX: Give me twenty cc's of anesthezine.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. Transporter status.
KIM (voiceover): Still too much interference. I'll try compensating. Stand by for further instructions.
TORRES: What happened?
NEELIX: We don't know. He went away for a minute, he screamed, and we found him here.
FESEK: These look like chemical burns.
NEELIX: Without tricorders, it's hard to make a diagnosis.
PELK: It's here.
FESEK: What?
PELK: The creature.
FESEK: You're hallucinating. It's the radiation, but you're going to be all right.
PELK: No. It attacked me. It, oh.
NEELIX: He's going into shock. Cortical stimulator.
FESEK: Pelk, get up!
NEELIX: He's not responding.
CHAKOTAY: He said the creature attacked him.
FESEK: He imagined it. He was probably scalded when that conduit ruptured.
TORRES: Or maybe there is someone else on this ship.
KIM (voiceover): Voyager to away team. Transporter interference has cleared. We're locked onto your coordinates. Stand by.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, Pelk is dead. Lock onto his signal and beam him to Sickbay. Ask the Doctor to determine the cause of death.
KIM (voiceover): Aye sir.
CHAKOTAY: Someone still needs to get up there and open the airlocks.
FESEK: Me.
CHAKOTAY: Hold on. I'll join you. From now on nobody works alone.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Progress?
KIM: They've vented five decks. Ten to go.
TUVOK: At this rate, they'll reach the control room in approximately three hours. However, the storage tanks will detonate in less than two.
JANEWAY: I've been working on a contingency plan.
TUVOK: An O type star.
JANEWAY: If the freighter exploded within the star's corona it might absorb the radiation.
TUVOK: The star is not on the freighter's trajectory.
JANEWAY: What if we gave it a little nudge?
TUVOK: A series of carefully timed tractor pulses could alter the freighter's course. But given the vessel's weakened state, one miscalculation could set off the explosion.
JANEWAY: I'm still counting on the away team to succeed, but I want to be ready with plan B if they don't.

[Malon Freighter corridor]
TORRES: I don't know about the rest of you but I could sure use a sonic shower.
NEELIX: I'd love to soak in a hot bath for a day or two.
TORRES: Oh no, not me. I want to feel those sonic pulses dissolving every last atom of this grime off my body.
FESEK: We have a decontamination bay on board that can purge over fifty workers at a time.
TORRES: Well, that sounds like fun.
NEELIX: B'Elanna?
TORRES: I'm okay, just a little light-headed.
NEELIX: Your hand.
TORRES: Oh, God.
FESEK: Freighter blight, from the prolonged exposure.
TORRES: Lovely.
FESEK: In my business, it's an occupational hazard.
TORRES: We'd better try inoculating you again.
FESEK: If she's blistering, she's already received a fatal dose of radiation. She needs treatment.
TORRES: I'll live. Let's keep moving.
FESEK: We have medicines in the infirmary. It's only two sections from here.
TORRES: We don't have time for a detour.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, go with him. We'll meet you outside the control room.
TORRES: Chakotay, I'm fine.
CHAKOTAY: I said go!

[Malon Freighter Infirmary]
TORRES: This is the infirmary? It looks more like a morgue. What happened to him?
FESEK: It looks like he was being treated for long term exposure. He was probably left behind during the evacuation.
TORRES: Tough luck, huh?
FESEK: There was nothing more we could do for him. He was a core laborer.
TORRES: Meaning?
FESEK: He worked close to the storage tanks. Only three of ten core laborers survive a standard mission.
TORRES: Occupational hazard?
FESEK: They know the risks when they accept the assignment.
TORRES: They know they're going to end up like this?
FESEK: Core laborers can make more in two months than most Malon make in a lifetime.
TORRES: What good is the money if they're not around to collect it.
FESEK: It will go to his family.
TORRES: What is that thing?
FESEK: It's a subdermal injector. It contains analeptic compounds to reverse the cell damage.
TORRES: I feel better already.
FESEK: I won't hurt you. I've done this a hundred times. You'll feel a slight burning sensation.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Commander. The Captain's plan B. I've calculated the inertial force required to divert the freighter. Plan C. Shield modulations that should reduce the structural damage of Voyager. It will also help protect the crew against theta radiation poisoning, if we fail.
TUVOK: A wise precaution. With any luck, we won't be needing it.
SEVEN: I didn't think Vulcans believed in luck.
TUVOK: As a rule we don't, but serving with Captain Janeway has taught me otherwise.
SEVEN: She does seem to succeed more often than random chance would allow. I'll factor it into my calculations.
TUVOK: Is there a Plan D?
SEVEN: No.

[Malon Freighter deck five]
FESEK: Initiating decompression sequence, deck four. Deck clear.
NEELIX: Twelve down, three to go.
TORRES: The airlocks are opening on this deck.
FESEK: What?
TORRES: I can't close them.
NEELIX: Forcefields, where are they?
TORRES: They're offline!
CHAKOTAY: We've got to get off this deck. Move!
FESEK: This way.

[Malon Freighter deck four]
TORRES: Chakotay!
NEELIX: He was right behind me.
TORRES: Torres to Chakotay.
FESEK: That deck is a vacuum by now.
TORRES: Torres to Voyager.
KIM (voiceover): Acknowledged.
TORRES: Lock onto Chakotay's comm. signal and beam him to Sickbay.
KIM (voiceover): We've got him. He's okay.
TORRES: I thought that deck was secure.
FESEK: It was.
TORRES: Then why did we almost get blown into space?
FESEK: I don't know.
TORRES: Airlocks don't open by themselves!
FESEK: What are you saying? You think it was me?
NEELIX: Calm down, both of you! We don't have time to argue about what happened. We've got to keep moving.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Chakotay?
TUVOK: Unconscious but stable. The Doctor is treating him now. We'll be able to talk to him in less than an hour.
JANEWAY: I'll want a full report.
TUVOK: Shall I beam to the freighter and take command of the away team?
JANEWAY: I just spoke with B'Elanna. She's got everything under control.
TUVOK: This is a dangerous situation. There is no margin for emotional error.
JANEWAY: We have plenty to do here. Help me remodulate the tractor beam.
TUVOK: B'Elanna is unpredictable, Captain. Under these circumstances, her volatile nature could compromise the mission.
JANEWAY: Your concerns are noted, but if I send you over there I'd be sending the wrong message. That I don't have faith in her. But I do.
TUVOK: Your faith is admirable, but logic suggests
JANEWAY: This isn't about logic, it's about trust. She'll come through for us. Now, give me a hand.

[Malon Freighter deck two]
NEELIX: Lieutenant? Lieuten. Are you all right?
TORRES: Fine. Report.
NEELIX: We just vented the last deck. We should have a clear path to the control room.
TORRES: Let's get this thing over with, then.
NEELIX: If you need to rest.
TORRES: I said I'm fine. I was meditating.
NEELIX: Meditating? You?
TORRES: Do me a favor. Don't tell Tuvok.
NEELIX: Your secret's safe.
TORRES: It's this place.
NEELIX: I know how you feel. The next time I volunteer to board a Malon freighter, check me into Sickbay and have my head examined.
TORRES: I feel like I'm ready to explode.
NEELIX: We'll get through this together. I've got a knack for diffusing explosive situations.
TORRES: Thanks.

[Astrometrics lab]
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to Astrometrics.
SEVEN: Go ahead.
TORRES (voiceover): We're outside the control room

[Malon Freighter corridor]
TORRES: But without tricorders we can't tell if it's safe to go in there.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: The room is too heavily shielded. Our sensors can't penetrate it.

[Malon Freighter corridor]
SEVEN (voiceover): You must stand by.
FESEK: The theta dampening field is still active. It should be safe.
TORRES: After you.

[Malon Freighter control room]
FESEK: It's worse than I expected. The theta gas has leaked into the warp manifold.
NEELIX: We've got less than ten minutes before this vessel explodes.
FESEK: Emergency systems are down.
TORRES: This should feed enough energy to your power matrix to reinitialize them. Try it now.
FESEK: They're coming back online, but only one containment grid is still operational. We have two unstable tanks. One grid can't handle them both.
TORRES: We'll seal them one at a time.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: Doctor?
EMH: Easy, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Ow, my head aches.
EMH: I'm not surprised. You took a severe blow.
CHAKOTAY: I've got to get back to the freighter.
EMH: Not in this condition. If you want to help, you can answer some questions about Mister Pelk's death. I've found unidentified tissue in his wounds.
CHAKOTAY: What sort of tissue?
EMH: The computer is running a microcellular scan.
CHAKOTAY: Pelk said he was attacked.
EMH: Ah yes, the Malon Bogeyman.
COMPUTER: Microcellular analysis is complete.
EMH: Odd. The tissue is saturated with theta radiation, but it's not showing signs of decay. It came from someone or something that's developed a resistance to the radiation. Sickbay to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN (voiceover): Yes, Doctor.
EMH: Scan for additional lifeforms aboard the Malon vessel.
SEVEN: I've been running continuous scans.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I assure you there is no one there aside from the away team.

[Sickbay]
EMH: This lifeform's heavily irradiated. It could be blending in with ambient toxins.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I'll recalibrate our sensors.

[Malon Freighter control room]
FESEK: Tank one stable.
TORRES: Reroute the containment grid to the tank two.
NEELIX: What happened?
FESEK: A power surge. We're losing the grid.
TORRES: It was triggered from a workstation on this deck.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to away team.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We've detected an alien lifeform aboard the freighter. We believe it killed Pelk.
TORRES (voiceover): Captain, we just lost power.
JANEWAY: We're diverting the freighter into a nearby star. Leave the control room so we can get a lock on you.
TORRES (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Malon Freighter control room]
NEELIX: What's going on?
TORRES: It's jammed.
SEVEN (voiceover): Seven of Nine

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: To away team. I've detected the alien lifeform. It's moving toward your position.

[Malon Freighter control room]
NEELIX: The gas is being routed through the environmental systems.
TORRES: I'll try to shut it down.
NEELIX: Is there another way out?
FESEK: No.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Do you have them?
KIM: Not yet.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: The lifeform has entered the control room.

[Malon Freighter control room]
TORRES: I'm trying to vent the gas, but the release valves are jammed.
FESEK: Use the environmental controls instead.
TORRES: In the meantime, see if you can get that hatch open.
TORRES: Neelix?
FESEK: No, you'll ignite the gas.
TORRES: Neelix?
TORRES: We've got to get him back to Voyager. Get that hatch open!
FESEK: I'm trying!
TORRES: Fesek, behind you!
TORRES: You're a core laborer.
VIHAAR: Not anymore.
TORRES: Stay back. Don't make me kill you.
VIHAAR: I'm already dead.
TORRES: You've been sabotaging this ship.
VIHAAR: There's no other way to make them understand.
TORRES: So that's your way of getting even? Killing your crew? Causing an explosion that will contaminate other ships?
VIHAAR: They poisoned me!

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The freighter is on course for the star.
JANEWAY: Away team, we've adjusted the vessel's course. It's heading for an O type star.

[Malon Freighter control room]
JANEWAY (voiceover): You have to get out of there now.
VIHAAR: No. No.

[Bridge]
PARIS: The freighter's maneuvering thrusters just activated. It's altering course.
JANEWAY: Compensate.
TUVOK: No effect. I'm detecting radiation surges in the theta tanks. They're going to detonate in three minutes.
JANEWAY: Harry?
KIM: As long as they're in the control room I can't get a lock
JANEWAY: Janeway to away team. Get those maneuvering thrusters

[Malon Freighter control room]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Offline then get out of the contaminated area. We can't get a transporter lock on you.
TORRES: Get the hell away from there, now!
VIHAAR: No! It's too late!
TORRES: Okay. Okay. Look, I know what they've done to you. They used you. You want to hurt them. Listen, listen to me. I know. I know that you're so angry you want to destroy everything in sight, but there's another way to make them understand. I'm on your side. I can help you. Innocent people are going to die if you do this.
VIHAAR: No. It's over.
TORRES: Please, please. Please, let me help you.
VIHAAR: No.
TORRES: Step away!

[Bridge]
PARIS: The Malon's thrusters are powering down.
TUVOK: I have restored the freighter's trajectory.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, get out of there.

[Malon Freighter control room]
TORRES: Come on, we've got to go. Fesek.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: The away team, Mister Kim?
KIM: I got them.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: Maybe the meditation's working.
TORRES: What makes you say that?
CHAKOTAY: From what Neelix told me. You kept your temper in check over there.
TORRES: Don't expect me to make a habit of it.
EMH: Well, I've repaired most of your cellular degradation. I wish I could say the same for you, but you've suffered long term systemic damage. Your condition will deteriorate over time.
FESEK: It's an occupational hazard.
JANEWAY: We've contacted a Malon transport ship in the next sector. We've altered course to rendezvous with them.
FESEK: Thank you, Captain. I don't know how I'm going to explain what happened.
TORRES: Tell them the truth. Tell them the Vihaar is no myth.

[Torres' quarters]
TORRES: Computer, activate sonic shower.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: So, Harry throws it in gear, floors the gas, and backs us right through a burrito stand.
TORRES: So when are you going to teach me how to drive?
PARIS: You sure you're ready?
TORRES: I've piloted starships. I think I can handle a car.
PARIS: You'd be surprised. The clutch on a '69 Mustang can be pretty tricky.
TORRES: Take a look. She's watching us again.
PARIS: She's working. Relax.
NEELIX: Dessert?
TORRES: What is it?
NEELIX: Some cheese I prepared for our Kadi guest. Tell me what you think.
TORRES: It's a little bland.
NEELIX: Just a little? Oh, that's bad. The Kadi don't approve of spices. Anything that might inflame the senses.
PARIS: You're talking this mission very seriously.
NEELIX: The Kadi are easily offended. The Captain's leaving their representative entirely in my hands while she's at the colony.
PARIS: I'm sure you're up to it, Ambassador.
NEELIX: I hope so.
TORRES: She's watching us again.
PARIS: You're imagining things.
TORRES: I don't think so.
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Enjoying the view?
SEVEN: Explain.
TORRES: You've been staring at us all night. In fact, you were following us yesterday when we were walking to Engineering, and the day before when I was waiting for Tom outside the shuttlebay.
SEVEN: You are correct, I have been observing you. It's part of my research on human mating behavior.
TORRES: Stardate 52647, fourteen hundred hours. Subjects quarrel in corridor outside female's quarters. Male returns with twelve flowering plant stems, species rosa rubifolia, effecting a cessation of hostilities. Stardate 52648, oh three hundred hours. Intimate relations resume. How the hell do you know when we're having intimate relations?
SEVEN: There is no one on deck nine section twelve who doesn't know when you're having intimate relations.
NEELIX: Is there a problem?
TORRES: I want all the data you've collected.
SEVEN: I haven't completed the study.
TORRES: Then study this. Borg provokes Klingon, Klingon breaks Borg nose.
NEELIX: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Call Sickbay. Tell them there's about to be a medical emergency.
PARIS: B'Elanna, let's go have a nightcap.
TORRES: This time you've crossed the line.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: I read B'Elanna's report. Needless to say, I was surprised.
SEVEN: I was careful not to violate protocols.
JANEWAY: That's not the point. This is a starship, not a nature preserve. Oh, I'm missing a pip.
SEVEN: You asked me to broaden my knowledge of human behavior.
JANEWAY: I'm not questioning your goals, Seven. It's your methods. You shouldn't be taking field notes on the crew. Help me with this, will you please?
JANEWAY: Have you ever considered trying it yourself? Romance, I mean.
SEVEN: I do not require a romantic relationship.
JANEWAY: So why'd you collect thirty thousand gigaquads of information on the subject? I'm late.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: I missed this on my first pass through their database. Kadi monks only wash with purified water, so sonic showers are out.
NEELIX: I've already equipped his quarters with an ablutionary fountain built to their specifications.
TUVOK: They observe eight daily services.
NEELIX: Noted.
JANEWAY: Show the ambassador our best side, Neelix. I don't want him going back to his superiors with tales of how immoral we are.

[Transporter room]
TUVOK: Energize.
NEELIX: The ritual greeting.
JANEWAY: Travelers who have left the sanctity of their home and family, we welcome you into our home, our family.
ABBOT: Accept these symbols of our purity and the goddess mother's blessing.
JANEWAY: Commander Tuvok, the senior officer who will accompany me, and Mister Neelix, who will familiarize your Ambassador with Voyager.
ABBOT: Tomin is an excellent judge of character. He'll help us determine whether your crew is worthy of receiving our minerals.
JANEWAY: He's in very good hands.
ABBOT: It is time to welcome you to our home.
NEELIX: This way, Ambassador.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Voyager's an Intrepid class starship with a crew of one hundred and forty six, designed for long-term exploration. I thought we'd start with a tour of our primary systems. First stop, Engineering.
TOMIN: I was hoping I might sample a food item I noted earlier in your data files. Hasperat.
NEELIX: It's a Bajoran dish. Very spicy. I believe that your dietary protocols prohibit flavorful foods.
TOMIN: I want to broaden my palate while I'm here, in the interest of better understanding.
NEELIX: In that case, first stop, mess hall.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Your cortical implants are operating at peak efficiency. Nanoprobe levels stable. Complaints?
SEVEN: None.
EMH: I heard about the mess hall incident.
SEVEN: This crew can be very efficient at disseminating information when they choose to be.
EMH: They say gossip travels faster than warp speed. So why were you studying Tom and B'Elanna?
SEVEN: Scientific curiosity.
EMH: Are you sure? Perhaps there's a reason that hasn't occurred to you. You're a woman, Seven.
SEVEN: Is that an observation or a diagnosis?
EMH: A simple biological fact, with repercussions that are hard to deny.
SEVEN: What is your proposed treatment?
EMH: Perhaps you should consider expanding your research to the realm of dating.
SEVEN: Dating. You mean procreation?
EMH: One step at a time. Dating is a human ritual wherein two people share a social activity, get to know each other. In time, it can lead to a romantic involvement and eventually, if all goes well, even marriage.
SEVEN: One step at a time.
EMH: This could be an important stage in your social development. It's worth exploring.
SEVEN: The Captain would seem to agree. How shall I proceed?
EMH: You mean, we. I'll prepare a lesson plan. Meet me on Holodeck two in one hour. Most women start dating a little younger than you but, better late than never.

[Holodeck two]
EMH: I've prepared an introduction. I call it Love Amid the Stars. The Milky Way, home to thousands of humanoid species and countless courtship rituals. Klingon males initiate courtship by biting the female. Here we see two Bolians getting to know one another. The courtship rituals of some species remain shrouded in mystery. For example Species 8472 appears to have as many as five sexes. Bystanders better keep their distance. Of course, the species you're most likely to interact with is human, so without further ado, Lesson One. First Contact. There are any number of ways humans can meet prospective mates. Here we see the chance encounter. Equally common is the formal introduction. When first contact is successful, romance quickly ensues and, in the happiest of circumstances, procreation. Here we see how fortress ovum is besieged by countless little warriors.
SEVEN: Doctor, I am familiar with the physiological processes of sexuality.
EMH: Oh. Then let's skip ahead to the first of the practical exercises. Lesson two. Encounter in a Public Place. Computer, initiate holo-program Paris three.

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]
SEVEN: Our location?
EMH: Chez Sandrine. It's on Earth, in a city called Marseilles. Ensign Paris whiled away a good portion of his Academy years here, no doubt to the detriment of his scholastic performance. Now, pull up a bar stool and pretend you've come here to meet the man of your dreams. Hi, there.
SEVEN: Hello.
EMH: Come here often?
SEVEN: This is my first time.
EMH: You must be new in town. How do you like the south of France?
SEVEN: It is very quaint. Exactly as I've always pictured it.
EMH: May I buy you a drink?
SEVEN: I don't require a liquid supplement at this time.
EMH: You're not giving this a fair chance
SEVEN: This exercise is pointless.
EMH: It may seem pointless, but small talk is a vital dating skill. It helps to establish a rapport with your companion.
SEVEN: Perhaps there's something to be said for assimilation after all.
EMH: All right, why don't you try your own approach on that gentleman over there? Go ahead.
SEVEN: Very well.
SEVEN: Hello.
PRICE: Hello.
SEVEN: May I buy you a drink?
PRICE: Er, sure. Steven Price.
PRICE: And you are?
SEVEN: Seven of Nine, tertiary adjunct of. You may call me Seven.
PRICE: Seven. That's an unusual name. Please, have a seat.
PARIS: Looks like Sandrine's is under new management. Who deleted my pool table?
EMH: Shush. School is in session.
PARIS: More social lessons?
EMH: Watch. You might learn something.
PRICE: Curious jewelery.
SEVEN: It's a Borg implant. I was a drone.
PRICE: Oh, so then it's a family heirloom.
SEVEN: Borg do not have families. They have unimatrices.
PRICE: Well, in that case, why don't you tell me about your unimatrix.
EMH: They're hitting it off, don't you think?
PARIS: He's a hologram.
EMH: Your point?
PARIS: Well, you programmed him to interact with Seven. Real people don't respond the same way.
EMH: Under my guidance, she'll be dating real people in no time.
PARIS: You're teaching Seven how to date? Ha! Talk about the blind leading the blind.
EMH: I've had my share of romantic encounters. Are you implying that Seven couldn't get a date?
PARIS: Are you kidding? Half the men on this ship would jump at the chance. But getting a date is one thing, keeping it from turning into a disaster is another.
EMH: I have every confidence in her social skills.
PARIS: Well, fine. Let's say you get her a date. This is the holodeck. The cards are stacked in her favor. If you want to really put her to the test you have to do it in the real world, where anything can happen.
EMH: Mister Neelix is hosting a reception for the Kadi ambassador on Thursday night. Not only will Seven arrive with a date, she will have him eating out of the palm of her hand.
PARIS: Put your latinum where your mouth is. If Seven brings a date to the reception, and leaves with the same date on good terms, without causing a diplomatic incident, I will work double shifts in Sickbay for the next month.
EMH: And if she fails?
PARIS: I get a month off.
EMH: It's a bet.
PRICE: Where are you going?
SEVEN: Our small talk is terminated. I have mastered this exercise. We can proceed to the next.
PARIS: If I were you I'd start looking for somebody to fill in for me.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: One Ktarian pudding.
TOMIN: Mmm. Ah. Mmm. Ah, the texture is so frothy. It seems to be evaporating in my mouth.
NEELIX: The recipe includes a catalytic agent designed to do just that. If we don't hurry, we'll miss Lieutenant Torres. She's been waiting half an hour.
TOMIN: You're right. Engineering, your warp core. I must see that.
TOMIN: In our society, males and females work separately, but I can see the wisdom of your approach. Promotes a more stimulating environment.
NEELIX: It's time for third prayer.
TOMIN: Yes, it is. But I think I can forego this service and perform the appropriate penance later. It's more important that I continue exploring your culture. Perhaps another dessert?

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: Good morning. It's time for lesson three. Getting to Know You.
SEVEN: Elaborate.
EMH: The key to finding a compatible partner is learning how to share your interests and goals. We'll start with hobbies. What do you do with your spare time?
SEVEN: Regenerate.
EMH: Ah. Tell me about your tastes, your likes and dislikes.
SEVEN: I dislike irrelevant conversations.
EMH: Okay. Which brings us to goals. What do you want out of life?
SEVEN: Perfection.
EMH: Perfection is a laudable goal for oneself, but you can't expect it from others. I learned that lesson myself when I was first activated. One of the ways I adapted was to pursue interests people could identify with. Holo-photography, for example. Opera.
SEVEN: Music does have intriguing mathematical properties.
EMH: Excellent. Perhaps we can mold this curiosity into an interest. Something you can share with others. Let's see how much you know. Here we see
SEVEN: A basic musical phrase in the major mode. I've done a preliminary study of the topic.
EMH: Sing it for me. Seven, has anyone ever told you, you have a beautiful voice? It's a true gift.
SEVEN: The gift is from the Collective. A vocal subprocessor designed to facilitate the sonic interface with Borg transponders.
EMH: Let's try something a little more challenging.
SEVEN: You Are My Sunshine?
EMH: It's a simple melody from Earth's twentieth century. A good piece for beginners. Sing.
SEVEN: The other night, dear, as I lay sleeping, I dreamed I held you in my arms.
EMH: That was flawless, but try putting a little more emotion into it. Like this. When I awoke, dear, I was mistaken and I hung my head and cried. See? Computer, add instrumental accompaniment. On to the chorus. Together now.
BOTH: You are my sunshine, my only sunshine. You make me happy when skies are gray. You'll never know, dear, how much I love you. Please don't take my sunshine away. You are my sunshine, my only sunshine. You make me happy when skies are gray.
SEVEN: You'll never know, dear
BOTH: How much I love you. Please don't take my sunshine away.

[Astrometrics]
KIM: Seven, I need the data from those last two Astrometric scans.
SEVEN: In a moment.
KIM: That looks like the crew manifest.
SEVEN: The Doctor asked me to pick a suitable candidate.
KIM: For what?
SEVEN: Lesson ten. The first date.
KIM: Your first date?
SEVEN: I've narrowed the list to two crewmen, based on work performance and compatible interests.
KIM: I didn't know you had any interests.
SEVEN: Neither did I, but apparently they include astronomy, quantum mechanics and music.
KIM: I play the clarinet, you know.
SEVEN: You are not one of the candidates, Ensign.
KIM: Oh. Well, maybe I could help you pick Mister Right.
SEVEN: Ensign Bronowski, assigned to the Airponics bay. His work record is flawless and he plays the accordion.
KIM: Badly, very badly. He's got no sense of humor.
SEVEN: Lieutenant Chapman, Structural Engineering.
KIM: Chapman's a nice guy.
SEVEN: We worked together on an away mission. He seemed efficient.

[Jefferies tube]
CHAPMAN: Robertson, if that's you, I need an isolinear spanner.
SEVEN: It is not.
SEVEN: I apologize, Lieutenant. I didn't mean to startle you.
CHAPMAN: No, my fault. You need something?
SEVEN: Your presence is required er, rather, it is requested, tonight. Nineteen hundred hours, holodeck two.
CHAPMAN: Another engineering simulation?
SEVEN: Dinner.
CHAPMAN: Dinner?
SEVEN: The consumption of nutritional biomatter.
CHAPMAN: No, I know what dinner is. I just. Are you asking me to join you?
SEVEN: Yes. State your response.
CHAPMAN: Okay. Yes.
SEVEN: Please be punctual.
CHAPMAN: I will, thanks.
SEVEN: A dropped tool can be a workplace hazard. Be more careful next time.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Seven. Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
SEVEN: I have a date.
PARIS: Sorry I'm late.
EMH: It's quite all right. In fact, why don't you take the day off, relax. Those double shifts are going to take a lot out of you.
PARIS: Oh?
EMH: Seven of Nine has a date tonight. If all goes well, as I'm sure it will, he'll accompany her to the reception tomorrow.
PARIS: Who'd she pick?
EMH: Lieutenant William Chapman.
PARIS: Ha! Chapman? Good luck.
EMH: What's that supposed to mean?
PARIS: He's renowned for being nervous around women.
EMH: So.
PARIS: Are you kidding? Seven's dominant personality will have him running for the airlock before dessert.
EMH: Seven may seem intimidating, but that's only a reaction to the way people treat her. In fact, she's an efficient and charming young woman.
PARIS: Efficient. I'll give you that, but charming?
EMH: Most people don't take the time to look beyond her exterior. Did you know she has a lovely singing voice?
PARIS: No, I didn't, but then again, I've never asked her to sing for me.
EMH: What are you implying?
PARIS: It sounds like you're getting a little infatuated with your star pupil.
EMH: Infatuated? That's absurd.
PARIS: Whatever you say, maestro.
EMH: It was part of the lesson plan!

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: You're meeting with him in ten minutes, Seven. Why aren't you ready?
SEVEN: I am.
EMH: Aren't we forgetting something? Lesson eight, Dress for Success.
SEVEN: My appearance is sufficient.
EMH: Sufficient, yes, but you could use a little more panache. Let's start by doing something different with your hair. I don't have much first-hand experience with this, but, try shaking your head a little bit.
SEVEN: Is this more appropriate?
EMH: Yes. When I first designed your dermaplastic garment I also tried my hand at some casual attire. You might want to replicate one of these.
SEVEN: How shall I choose?
EMH: I think you'd look very nice in this one.
SEVEN: I am uncertain how to wear such a garment. Assist me.
EMH: Oh, I, I, I'm sure you'll manage. I'll go prepare the Holodeck. Remember, the idea is to have fun tonight. I'll expect a full report in the morning.

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]
CHAPMAN: You, you look beautiful.
SEVEN: Thank you. You look beautiful as well.
CHAPMAN: Thank you. Er, would you like to sit down?
SEVEN: Where is our designated location?
CHAPMAN: Best table in the house. I wasn't sure you'd actually show up.
SEVEN: I requested your presence.
CHAPMAN: Well, to be honest, I thought one of my friends put you up to it. Champagne?
SEVEN: Synthehol impairs my cortical function. Water will suffice.
CHAPMAN: Mind if I?
SEVEN: Proceed.
CHAPMAN: I must admit I'm a little nervous.
SEVEN: Elaborate.
CHAPMAN: Oh, let's just say it's been a long time since I've been out on a date.
SEVEN: I've never been on a date. As a result, I am experiencing anxiety as well.
CHAPMAN: Well, I guess that means we've got something in common. Garçon?
SEVEN: Server, report to this station. We require your assistance.
CHAPMAN: Problem?
SEVEN: This creature has an exoskeleton.
CHAPMAN: It's a lobster. They're a delicacy on Earth. Try it.
SEVEN: I will replicate you a new garment.
CHAPMAN: I'm fine, fine. It's just a little bit of exoskeleton. Maybe we should order dessert.
SEVEN: You wish to accelerate our social encounter.
CHAPMAN: No, no, I didn't say that. I'm just, er, I'm having a very interesting evening. Would you like to dance?
SEVEN: That activity is covered in lesson thirty five. I haven't reached it yet.
CHAPMAN: I'm not much of a dancer myself, but it might be fun.
SEVEN: As you wish.
CHAPMAN: Relax. Try to relax. You seem a little tense.
SEVEN: Relaxation would disrupt my chronographic sequencer. It allows me to maintain synchronous movement with the music.
CHAPMAN: That's handy. But maybe you could ignore your chronographic sequencer and, er, let me lead. That's better.
SEVEN: You are damaged.
CHAPMAN: No, I'll be all right.
EMH: You've torn a ligament. I'm afraid you'll have to report to Sickbay. Mister Paris will treat you. No need to mention how this happened.
CHAPMAN: I had a great time, Seven. Let's do this again, someday.
SEVEN: I have failed.
EMH: Nonsense. Even Romeo and Juliet hit a few snags at first. Besides, Lieutenant Chapman's not the only lobster in the sea.
SEVEN: I wish to terminate our social lessons.
EMH: Just because you didn't achieve perfection your first time out, doesn't mean you should give up.
SEVEN: Dating is a poor means of interaction. There is far more efficiency in the way you and I communicate. We say what we mean, simply and directly.
EMH: You and I do have a rapport, but we're colleagues. We're not pursuing romance.
SEVEN: No.
EMH: I'm certain you'll be able to master these basic skills in short order.
SEVEN: My first date was certainly short.
EMH: Was that a joke?
SEVEN: Lesson Six, beguiling banter.
EMH: Now you're getting the hang of it. Perhaps this evening doesn't have to end so abruptly. This may be a good time to cover Lesson thirty five, Shall We Dance? Computer, play Someone To Watch Over Me, instrumental only. We'll begin with some simple steps. Place your left hand on my shoulder and your right hand in my left. Now, follow me, one step at a time. Don't worry. I don't have any ligaments to tear.
TOMIN: Another drink!
NEELIX: Ambassador!
TOMIN: Neelix! My friend, my host, my savior. Neelix, I want you to meet, Alandra and Tria.
NEELIX: What are you doing?
TOMIN: I'm sampling yet another entrée on the menu of pleasure that you have opened up for me.
NEELIX: I checked today's menu, and they're not on it. Coffee, black.
TOMIN: Neelix, I decided to go exploring and I found your holodecks, where I discovered this little gem still simmering in the memory buffer.
NEELIX: You can explore it later. Right now, we've got to get you to your reception.
TOMIN: Pungent taste. What is it?
NEELIX: Coffee. And there's plenty more where we're going.
TOMIN: No coffee on our colony. Nothing to tempt the appetite of even the most weak-willed novitiate. Neelix, a confession. I am thinking of leaving the colony, joining Voyager. I want to throw off my vows and immerse myself in your wonderful culture.
NEELIX: That's just the synthehol talking.
TOMIN: No, I've never been more clear-headed about anything, and I have you to thank.
NEELIX: That's right. Up. There we go.

[Astrometrics lab]
EMH: Hard at work?
SEVEN: Our lessons have disrupted my duties.
EMH: Then I suppose you're too busy to attend the Ambassador's reception?
SEVEN: My presence is not required.
EMH: True, but it might be an opportunity for you to apply your newfound social skills.
SEVEN: Lesson eleven, Life of the Party?
EMH: Exactly. Join me?
SEVEN: Are you asking me on a date?
EMH: I suppose I am.
SEVEN: Then I accept. Is my appearance sufficient?
EMH: You look perfect.

[Mess hall - reception]
PARIS: How do you bend a hologram's ear? Use a prism. What did the counselor say to the hologram? You're projecting.
TOMIN: This humor, it's a revelation.
NEELIX: Are you sure you wouldn't prefer some more coffee?
TOMIN: Coffee. Yes, I'll have that too. Go.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix, is it my imagination, or is our guest of honor drunk?
NEELIX: Commander, I tried. I had an itinerary, I even set up a prayer dais in his quarters, but I just couldn't control him. The Captain is due back in the morning with the Kadi minister. What do I do?
CHAKOTAY: Pray.
PARIS: Well, well, well. What do we have here?
EMH: Mister Paris, I believe you know Seven of Nine, my date for the evening.
PARIS: Oh, you don't say? Well, your last date ended up in Sickbay. I hope this one goes a little smoother.
EMH: There's no need to be insulting.
SEVEN: It's all right, Doctor. I believe he is merely engaging in small talk. May I get either of you gentlemen a drink?
PARIS: Yes, a gin and tonic with a twist.
EMH: You know I don't drink. I don't have the stomach for it.
SEVEN: A well-crafted joke, Doctor.
PARIS: Impressive. You've actually taught her to be polite. But don't think you've won our bet. She was supposed to bring a real date.
EMH: Photons and force fields, flesh and blood, why quibble over details. I'm just as real as any of you.
TOMIN: Where's the funny man?
NEELIX: Mister Tomin, please, why don't, why don't we sit down.
TOMIN: Oh, there he is, there he is. Ensign Paris, tell us another one of those hologram jokes.
EMH: You've been stealing my material?
PARIS: That guy's so lubricated he'll laugh at anything.
TOMIN: There he is, the Ambassador of humor.
NEELIX: I could use a little help here.
EMH: Seven, perhaps now would be a good time to review lesson twenty three, Toast of the Town.
SEVEN: Very well.
SEVEN: Ladies and gentlemen, I require your attention. May cultural differences encourage us to build bridges of understanding. To all that makes us unique.
TOMIN: Who is that extraordinary female?
NEELIX: Seven of Nine.
TOMIN: I want to meet her.
NEELIX: Take a number.
PARIS: That was lovely.
SEVEN: Thank you.
PARIS: I've got to admit it, you've done wonders. All right, you win.
SEVEN: Win?
PARIS: I know when I'm licked. You tell me when you want me to start those double shifts.
SEVEN: You made a wager regarding me? Clarify.
EMH: It's not what you think.
PARIS: Er, don't blame him, it was my idea.
SEVEN: I believed your interest in my social development was sincere, not motivated by personal gain.
EMH: It was sincere.
SEVEN: Clearly I am not the only one who requires social lessons. Thank you for a lovely evening.
TOMIN: Hey, why don't we go back to my quarters? I've studied human mating rituals.
SEVEN: Remove your hand or I will remove your arm.
TOMIN: Did you hear what she said to me? I am the guest of honor!
CHAKOTAY: Ambassador, it's been a long day. Maybe you should get some rest.
TOMIN: No! I'm not leaving! I want another drink.

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: I thought synthehol wasn't supposed to have this effect on people.
EMH: Most people. The enzymes that break down synthehol aren't present in his bloodstream.
NEELIX: Can you counteract the effects?
EMH: I can synthesize the enzymes, but that'll take days.
NEELIX: Days? The Captain will be back in the morning.
PARIS: Maybe he needs a cold shower.
NEELIX: If his superiors find him like this he'll be banished from the colony, and our trade agreement will go right out the airlock.
TOMIN: Oh, Seven of mine.
SEVEN: It may be possible to encode some of my nanoprobes to assimilate the synthehol molecules.
TOMIN: Assimilate me.
EMH: There may be some adverse effects.
TOMIN: Please.
EMH: But it's worth a try.
NEELIX: The Kadi have rules against medical procedures that haven't been sanctified.
PARIS: I'd say he's already violated a few rules. What's one more?
EMH: Either we treat him or he remains intoxicated. You're his caretaker, decide.
NEELIX: Nanoprobes.

[Medical lab]
EMH: I owe you an apology.
SEVEN: Nanoprobe extraction is an insignificant procedure. My systems will adapt.
EMH: No, I'm referring to the wager I made with Ensign Paris. I can see how you might have felt manipulated, but I assure you that was never my intention.
SEVEN: I accept your apology.
EMH: I want to make this perfectly clear so there's no room for misunderstanding. I asked you to go with me to the reception because I enjoy your company. In fact, over the last few days I feel as though we've grown closer.
SEVEN: Closer?
EMH: We've become more than colleagues. We're friends?
SEVEN: Friends. Agreed. I should begin.
EMH: Of course.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I'll take over from here. Mister Paris. Hypothetically, if one develops romantic feelings for another person, how does one usually go about expressing them? It's for one of Seven's social lessons.
PARIS: Ah. I recommend the direct approach. Tell the person how you feel.
EMH: What if the feelings aren't mutual?
PARIS: Well, that's the risk you always take.
EMH: Oh. Thank you.
PARIS: Why don't you tell her? Come on, Doc. It's obvious the Ambassador is not the only one in this room who's intoxicated.
EMH: Impossible. She's my student.
PARIS: A hologram and a Borg? Stranger things have happened. Just look at me and B'Elanna.

[Corridor]
TOMIN: Er, could we walk a little slower?
NEELIX: They're due back any minute.
TOMIN: But my throat feels like an ancient parchment. Can't we go back to Sandrine's for a refreshing glass of
NEELIX: No. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.

[Transporter room]
TOMIN: Those doors, they're so loud
NEELIX: You've got a hangover.
TOMIN: Neelix, I don't remember much of last night but, I imagine I might have said some things.
NEELIX: You spoke eloquently, charmed the entire crew. Your reception was a success. Understand?
TOMIN: Yes. Neelix, you've been most patient.
NEELIX: Well, that's my job, and it isn't over yet.
NEELIX: Welcome back.
JANEWAY: Good to be home. How's it going?
NEELIX: All systems functioning normally. Ensign Kim detected a minor fluctuation in sensor array, but he took care of it.
JANEWAY: I was referring to Ambassador Tomin. Did he enjoy his visit?
NEELIX: Oh, well, well, I would say that he, er, he enjoyed himself immensely.
ABBOT: There are many distractions aboard this vessel. You didn't indulge in any of their more colorful traditions?
TOMIN: Of course not.
NEELIX: We followed the itinerary that you approved, to the last detail.
ABBOT: Oh, shame.
TOMIN: Your Holiness?
ABBOT: It isn't a violation to explore new experiences, as long as you don't make a habit of it.
TOMIN: I see your point.
ABBOT: Shall we conclude our negotiations, Captain?
JANEWAY: By all means.
TUVOK: I'll show you to the briefing room.
JANEWAY: Good work, Ambassador.

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: Do you like them?
SEVEN: Species rosa rubifolia. State your intention.
EMH: I wanted to congratulate you on the latest phase of your social development. Why don't you read the card?
SEVEN: You are my sunshine.
EMH: These past few days have been unforgettable. You've brought light into my life, Seven.
SEVEN: You have developed romantic feelings for me.
EMH: It's as if you've become a part of my program. When we're apart, I, I feel like I'm missing a subroutine. I don't expect you to reciprocate, but I wanted you to know how I feel. Computer, end program.

[Holodeck]
EMH: Enter. Seven.
SEVEN: I wish to speak with you.
EMH: What a coincidence. I was hoping to speak with you as well.
SEVEN: Regarding?
EMH: You first. What's this?
SEVEN: It's a medical tricorder. I enhanced its scanning resolution by thirty three percent. You once stated you desired a more efficient instrument.
EMH: I suppose I did.
SEVEN: It is a gift. Lesson twenty two, Thanks for the Memories. Is it insufficient?
EMH: No, no, it's very thoughtful.
SEVEN: I chose to convey my gratitude at this time because I no longer require your assistance. It's obvious there are no potential mates for me aboard this vessel. However, if I encounter a compatible individual in the future, I will again seek your guidance.
EMH: Guidance. Of course.
SEVEN: You said you had something to tell me.
EMH: I just wanted to say, the past few days have been unforgettable. Thank you.
SEVEN: You're welcome.
EMH: Computer, activate holoprogram Paris three.

[Holodeck - Sandrine's]
EMH: Won't you tell her please to put on some speed, follow my lead. Oh how I need, someone to watch over me.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Good morning.
JANEWAY: Morning.
NEELIX: Requisition reports for the week.
JANEWAY: Thanks.
NEELIX: What can you tell me about the Great Wall of China?
JANEWAY: Pardon?
NEELIX: The Great Wall of China, on Earth. Who built it?
JANEWAY: The Chinese.
NEELIX: What for?
JANEWAY: Why does anybody build a wall? To keep people out.

[Turbolift]
JANEWAY: Deck one.
NEELIX: In fact it was the first Q'in emperor who connected the walls built by a previous dynasty. He did it to prevent an invasion by nomads to the north. How big is it?
JANEWAY: I have a feeling you're going to tell me.
NEELIX: Twenty four hundred kilometers long, median width three point eight meters. Before the twenty second century, it was one of the only manmade objects that could be seen from Earth's orbit with the naked eye.
JANEWAY: Very impressive, Neelix. I had no idea you knew so much about my homeworld.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Status?
CHAKOTAY: We're on a course for the class Y cluster. We should be there in about three days.
JANEWAY: Gives us some time to relax. Carry on. Why this sudden interest in the Great Wall?
NEELIX: I've been studying Earth landmarks.

[Ready room]
NEELIX: Mister Paris and I have been exchanging a little cross-cultural trivia. He's become quite an expert on Talaxian geography.
JANEWAY: All right, here's one for you. What can you tell me about the Millennium Gate?
NEELIX: The Millennium Gate. Constructed in the 21st century in the United States of America. It was another one of the objects that could be seen from orbit. Er, three point two kilometers at the base, one kilometer in height, surface covered with highly reflective solar panels. A self-contained ecozystem.
JANEWAY: It became a model for the first colony on Mars. Did you know that one of my ancestors built it?
NEELIX: Really?
JANEWAY: Not with a hammer and nails, but with words and a lot of courage. Shannon O'Donnel, one of the first woman astronauts. She was the driving force behind the project.
NEELIX: That's something to be proud of.
JANEWAY: We were always told stories about her at family gatherings. The first of a long line of Janeway explorers.
NEELIX: Tell me more. I want something to stump Mister Paris with.
JANEWAY: Where to begin?
NEELIX: The Millennium Gate. How did she get involved with that?
JANEWAY: Well, at that time, she was still in the space program, but she'd also become something of an entrepreneur. I believe she was asked to join the project by the governor of Indiana. He wanted her expertise on recyclic life support systems. The way my aunt Martha, tells it they flew her in on a private aircraft.

[Shannon's car - driving]
SHANNON: Five am, December 27th, 2000. I'm in the great state of Indiana, I think. I saw the world's largest ball of string this morning, and the world's largest beefsteak tomato this afternoon. It was the size of a Volkswagen. The string, not the tomato. At least Christmas is over. Oh, no.

[Street]
SHANNON: Excuse me. I think I made a wrong turn. Is there a Millennium Gate around here?
PASSERBY: You're looking at it.
SHANNON: The sign said gas, food, lodging. I need all three.
PASSERBY: You won't find any of that here. Get back on the Interstate and go to exit nine.
SHANNON: I don't think I'm gong to make it.
PASSERBY: Good luck.
SHANNON: Tell me, are people a little friendlier off exit nine?
SHANNON: Oh, no.
SHANNON: You stopped.
DRIVER: You didn't. Got a pen?
SHANNON: I, I just didn't see you. I'm sorry. Are you okay?
DRIVER: Insurance?
SHANNON: Not really.
DRIVER: Not really?
SHANNON: It ran out.
DRIVER: It's not too bad. Two hundred bucks ought to cover it.
SHANNON: Two hundred bucks?
DRIVER: Let me guess. The money ran out, too.

[Alexandria Books]
SHANNON: Hi.
JASON: Hi
SHANNON: The sign said open?
HENRY: Yes, that's right. Till six o'clock. Can we be of assistance?
SHANNON: It's cold outside, and I wondered if I could wait here.
HENRY: For what?
SHANNON: For the tow truck. My car broke down. I'm trying to get to Florida.
JASON: She doesn't look like a corporate hit man.
SHANNON: I assure you I'm not. At least not anymore.
HENRY: Well, in any case, she's unarmed and chilled to the bone. I think we can handle her. Zeus himself watched over travelers. We should follow his example. Make yourself at home.
SHANNON: Thank you.
HENRY: Where's your car?
SHANNON: Down the street, next to the coffee shop. What used to be the coffee shop. It looks like this whole town is closed down.
HENRY: It is.
SHANNON: Except for you, huh?
JASON: This ship will never sink. Right, Dad?
HENRY: Decaf. Not exactly the nectar of the gods.
SHANNON: It'll do. Thank you.
SHANNON: What's this about, if I may ask?
HENRY: Preserving the past.
JASON: I'm Jason, by the way.
SHANNON: Shannon O'Donnel.
HENRY: I'm Henry. Henry Janeway.
SHANNON: Hi. So, you're trying to get them to stop building this Millennium whatever-it-is?
JASON: The Millennium Gate. The world's first self-sustaining civic environment.
HENRY: That's what the propaganda calls it. It's nothing but hype. It's actually a glorified shopping mall. They've talked all of my neighbors into selling their businesses. Only one thing stands in their way.
SHANNON: You're the last holdout?
HENRY: This time, Rome withstands the barbarians.
SHANNON: I may be able to help you, if you'd be willing to hire me.
JASON: Believe me, you don't want to be licking stamps for the next two days.
SHANNON: We could do all this on a computer.
JASON: Yeah, but my dad doesn't believe in computers. We don't even have one.
SHANNON: Well, I do. We can e-mail every computer within a hundred miles. It'll just take a few hours. It's easy.
HENRY: I'm not hiring anybody right now. Besides, you're going to Florida.
SHANNON: Maybe the tow truck is waiting. Thanks for the coffee.
HENRY: You're welcome.
SHANNON: I wouldn't ask you for a lot. Just enough to fix the car. I really, I kind of need a job right now.
JASON: Dad?
HENRY: I suppose we could use some help.
SHANNON: You do believe in electricity, don't you?

[Bar]
SHANNON: So, who are these barbarians, anyway?
HENRY: A company down in Texas
SHANNON: Why come here?
HENRY: The City Fathers made it easy for them. Free building permits, deferred taxs, new roads, so the invaders, they return the favor. They have offered us twenty percent above the market price for our properties. You know what the catch is? We've all got to sell.
SHANNON: Everybody must love you.
HENRY: People I knew when I was growing up, family, friends, it seems like they've all just turned against me. If this were Roman times, they'd feed me to the lions.
SHANNON: To the good old days.
HENRY: You know, I was born in the wrong millennium.
SHANNON: I'll stick with the modern age.
HENRY: The classical age. Greatest literature mankind ever produced.
SHANNON: No antibiotics.
HENRY: Families who'd take care of one another.
SHANNON: No cars.
HENRY: Air you can breathe.
SHANNON: No telephones.
HENRY: What a pleasure.
SHANNON: Shorter life spans.
HENRY: Lives that were worth living.
SHANNON: No cold beer.
HENRY: There you got me. Speaking of the modern age, Do you have any plans for the Millennium Eve?
SHANNON: No different than last year's Millennium Eve. I plan to be asleep.
HENRY: Life of the party.
SHANNON: Oh, don't tell me you've bought into all that hype again?
HENRY: Oh, maybe just a little.
SHANNON: Last year, when 2000 arrived? Everyone was convinced it was the dawn of a new era. But when the world didn't end and the flying saucers didn't land and the Y2K bug didn't turn off a single light bulb, you'd think everybody would have realized it was a number on a calendar. But, oh, no, they had to listen to all those hucksters who told them the real millennium was 2001. So this New Year's Eve will be as boring as last year.
HENRY: Come to think about it, I have sold an awful lot of doomsday books.
SHANNON: See what I mean?
HENRY: So, what's in Florida?
SHANNON: I have a cousin down there. I'll stay with her for a while until I can get back on my feet.
HENRY: If you don't mind my asking, did you lose your job?
SHANNON: I'm in a transitional period.
HENRY: From what to what.
SHANNON: From what I was doing to what I'm going to do. Your son tells me that your bookstore's belonged in your family for generations. That you've never done anything else.
HENRY: Yes, that's right.
SHANNON: You know, I'm just the opposite. I love to see places I've never been, try new things. I'm kind of an explorer.
HENRY: Really? Hmm. That station wagon of yours doesn't exactly look like a sailing ship.
SHANNON: It's a rocket ship.
HENRY: My mistake.

[Television]
MOSS: We have every intention of breaking ground on Monday. Day one of the next millennium. The people of this town have given us their full cooperation.
HENRY (voiceover): That's not true!
MOSS: If you'll let me finish, Mister Janeway. With the exception of Mister Janeway here.
COLLINS: Mister Janeway, would you like to comment?
HENRY: Yes. Yes, I would. You, you just can't, you can't bulldoze this town away. This, this is our heritage. This is our past.
MOSS: We're trying to give Portage Creek a future. Can't you see that?
HENRY: Yeah, yeah, your, your future. Your future, not ours.

[Street]
COLLINS: Mister Moss, we've heard you're considering moving the project to one of your alternate sites. Can you shed any light on that rumor?
MOSS: I'm afraid that's more than a rumor. If we can't work out an arrangement in Portage Creek, we'll have no choice but to select another location.
COLLINS: What city?
MOSS: No comment.
COLLINS: Is it true that Canton, Ohio has been chosen for the alternate
MOSS: Thank you for your time.
COLLINS: Thank you, Mister Moss.
HENRY: Well, that's that. All we have to do is stand firm till New Year's.
JASON: Easy for you to say. I have to go to school with their kids.
HENRY: Your school is one of the first places they're going to tear down.
JASON: They said they'd build a new one, a better one.
HENRY: Whose side are you on? I'm sorry. We're all in this together. Come on. Let's head back to civilization.

[Alexandria Books]
HENRY: Where shall we dine tonight? Ah, how does Paris sound?
SHANNON: It's Friday night. Can we get a reservation?
HENRY: Well, I think I can arrange it. I know the maitre d.
SHANNON: Too bad I don't speak French.
HENRY: Well, we'll keep it to ourselves. There. To new friends.
SHANNON: And a gracious host.
HENRY: Bon appetit.
SHANNON: I wouldn't mind visiting Paris one day.
HENRY: Yes, it'd be nice.
SHANNON: You haven't been?
HENRY: I haven't been outside Indiana. These are my traveling companions. They'll take me anywhere, anytime.
SHANNON: It's not such a bad idea to experience the real thing every now and then.
HENRY: I prefer my books.
SHANNON: Maybe you just never had the right guide.
HENRY: Is that an offer? I could make a similar argument. Not such a bad idea to settle down every now and then.
SHANNON: Is that an offer? You're a peculiar man, Mister Janeway. Cloistered away with all your books, shutting out the world.
HENRY: Any more peculiar than exploring the Midwest in an ailing station wagon?
SHANNON: Only slightly. Any word on my car?
HENRY: It's got a brand new oil pan.
SHANNON: You forgot to tell me that.
HENRY: Well, we were busy today. It's parked behind the garage whenever you're ready.
SHANNON: First thing in the morning.
HENRY: Not so fast. Jason told me you promised to show him a few tricks on the computer.
SHANNON: I could use another day of rest.
HENRY: Great. Jason'll be pleased. And when you're done with him, perhaps we'll take a stroll along the Boulevard St. Germain.
SHANNON: You're making it difficult to say goodbye.
HENRY: Maybe that's the idea.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: You wished to see me, Captain?
JANEWAY: I need your help with this. The Millennium Gate.
SEVEN: Impressive.
JANEWAY: It was built by one of my ancestors over three hundred years ago. I've been digging through the historical database, but a lot of the information from that era has been lost or damaged. I thought you might be able to help me reconstruct some of it.
SEVEN: Is this relevant to our present mission?
JANEWAY: It's relevant to me.
SEVEN: This ancestor of yours is fifteen generations removed. You only possess a small fraction of her genetic material. Insignificant.
JANEWAY: This isn't about chromosomes, Seven. It's about character.
SEVEN: Explain.
JANEWAY: Shannon O'Donnel inspired me when I was a girl. She had a, an influence on my imagination, on my goals.
SEVEN: I never realized genealogy could have such an impact.
JANEWAY: I wouldn't have become a Starfleet Captain if it wasn't for her.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: The temple of Artemis at Ephesus.
PARIS: That's four.
NEELIX: The Colossus at Rhodes.
PARIS: No. In chronological order.
NEELIX: Right. The Mausoleum of Halicarnassus. The Colossus at Rhodes.
PARIS: That leaves just one more.
NEELIX: The seventh wonder of the ancient world is
PARIS: Can't remember?
NEELIX: Oh, it's right on the tip of my tongue. It's. Forget it, I give up.
PARIS: Ha! I got you. It's the er.
NEELIX: Can't remember?
SEVEN: The Lighthouse of Alexandria built by Ptolemy the Second in 280 BC.
PARIS: Behold the wonder of the modern world. Borg photographic memory. We'll call this one a draw.
NEELIX: Brushing up on Earth's history?
SEVEN: Captain Janeway requested that I research one of her ancestors.
NEELIX: Shannon O'Donnel.
SEVEN: You've heard of her.
NEELIX: Who hasn't? You mind if I lend a hand?
SEVEN: If you wish.
NEELIX: Sven 'Buttercup' Hanson.
SEVEN: He was one of my progenitors. A twenty second century prize-fighter. The Captain encouraged me to investigate my genealogy as well.
NEELIX: Well, your ancestors can tell you a lot about yourself.
SEVEN: Somehow, I doubt 'Buttercup' has much relevance to me.
NEELIX: The connection could be deeper than you think. Sven. Seven.
SEVEN: A coincidence.
NEELIX: The point is, there's some of him in you. Just as there'll be some of you in your descendants.
SEVEN: If I choose to procreate.
NEELIX: I wouldn't dismiss it so lightly. Someday you may enjoy a little Seven of Nine point five running around. Or not. Or not.
SEVEN: My research has failed. I have found no references to this individual.
NEELIX: Well, genealogy's a lot like fishing. You've got to cast a wide net. Computer, expand record search for subject Shannon O'Donnel to include non-Federation databases. Er, personal archives and photographic indexes, as well.
COMPUTER: Reference found.
NEELIX: Well, take a look at this. Shannon Janeway.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Where in the world did you find this?
NEELIX: A Ferengi database.
JANEWAY: Ferengi?
NEELIX: Eleven years ago, one of their historians collected massive amounts of data about the origin of space travel in the Federation. He wanted to market it as a nostalgic gift item.
JANEWAY: I would have been his first customer.
NEELIX: It's a handsome family, Captain.
JANEWAY: These must be her sons and daughters. Grandchildren. Great-grandchildren.
SEVEN: I've also discovered journalistic accounts in the historical archives. Mostly articles concerning resistance to the Millennium Gate.
JANEWAY: The whole town was against her. Download this image for me, will you, Neelix? I'm going to frame it.
NEELIX: Yes, Captain.

[Bar]
COLLINS (screen): The citizens of Canton, Ohio greeted Millennium Gate representatives with a small parade today. Canton is one of three alternate sites now being considered by Gate officials. Vowing not to bow to pressure, Henry Janeway, owner of Portage Creek's Alexandria Books, says he has no intention of closing down. Marci Collins, Channel Three News.
MOSS: Next stop, Mars. I used to be in media relations with NASA. As I recall, your class came up with that slogan. Do you mind? It's a shame you didn't make the cut.
SHANNON: Not good enough, I guess.
MOSS: Do you still keep in touch with any of the others?
SHANNON: No.
MOSS: I do. In fact, I made a few calls last night. Remember Lieutenant McMillan?
SHANNON: How's she doing.
MOSS: Co-pilot on the joint mission with the Europeans scheduled for 03. Four months on the space station.
SHANNON: Not bad for a girl with claustrophobia.
MOSS: She got over it. Sorry to hear about your last job. All this downsizing in aerospace. Engineers aren't given the respect they deserve.
SHANNON: Who told you I lost my job?
MOSS: I made a few calls. You don't have to live like this. Borrowing money, sleeping in your car.
SHANNON: You've got no business checking up on me.
MOSS: Actually, I do. We run a history on all our candidates.
SHANNON: Are you trying to make me some kind of an offer?
MOSS: We know you've been working closely with Henry Janeway. He'll listen to you.
SHANNON: Oh. You want me to talk to him, get him to change his mind.
MOSS: If you can.
SHANNON: And in return?
MOSS: We'd give you a job. Make you a consulting engineer on the project. You certainly have the credentials. Well?
SHANNON: I'll think about it.
MOSS: Think quickly. We can't wait another thousand years.

[Shannon's dream]
CONTROL: Roger that, and go ahead.
ARMSTRONG: That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind.

[Alexandria Books]
JASON: Morning.
SHANNON: Morning.
JASON: I didn't think you'd mind. You've got some really great games on this.
SHANNON: Don't worry about it. Have you tried Matrix of Doom?
JASON: Oh, yeah. I got vaporized on level six.
SHANNON: Try launching a flare before entering the steel fortress.
JASON: Cool. Coffee?
SHANNON: Please. Where is your father?
JASON: Bloomington. All the suppliers in town are boycotting us, so he went up there to place some orders.
SHANNON: He left you in charge?
JASON: Alexandria Books, may I help you?
SHANNON: Sounds like you've got it down.
JASON: I pay the bills too. Dad's not very good at accounting. You have any kids?
SHANNON: No.
JASON: Not a priority?
SHANNON: I wouldn't say that. I just never got around to it. If you don't mind me asking, where's your mom?
JASON: She died.
SHANNON: Oh, I'm sorry.
JASON: I was really young. I don't remember her much. Dad says none of the great heroes grew up in a nuclear family. Hercules, Achilles, Odysseus. They all grew up with single parents.
SHANNON: You're in good company. You like working here, Jason?
JASON: It's okay.
SHANNON: You know, I get the feeling you don't share your father's enthusiasm about preserving the past.
JASON: I don't know. The Millennium Gate could be pretty cool.
SHANNON: Did you ever see the first landing on the moon? One small step for man.
JASON: They showed it in science class one time.
SHANNON: I saw it on TV when I was eleven years old. The whole world watched it.
JASON: Must have been great.
SHANNON: Oh, it way. So, do you have any heroes?
JASON: We are not living in a heroic age, that's what my dad says.
SHANNON: Come on, there's got to be somebody.
JASON: Dad. I mean, he's a pain sometimes, but he's pretty cool. Alexandria Books, may I help you? That's all right. First call in three days and it's a wrong number.
HENRY: Glorious Hector, son of Priam, slips past the Greek front lines bringing much-needed supplies to the embattled city of Troy.
JASON: Hey, Dad you're famous.
SHANNON: Local business owner topples Gate.
HENRY: Let it fall. Any customers this morning?
JASON: No one here but us galliforms.
SHANNON: That's chickens for the non-scientists in the crowd.
HENRY: You two are dangerous together. Portage Creek will thank us one day. You don't sacrifice history for a shopping mall.
SHANNON: It's a little more than that, Henry.
HENRY: I beg your pardon?
SHANNON: I said, it's not just a mall.
HENRY: Have you read the promotional literature? Over six hundred retail spaces available. Franchise potential.
SHANNON: There's a commercial dimension to the project, but that's not its only function.
HENRY: What's your point?
SHANNON: I've learned a few details about the Millennium Gate. It's a self-sustaining city, an experimental biosphere. It's never been done before.
HENRY: What's wrong with the biosphere we're living in now?
SHANNON: Nothing.
HENRY: Exactly.
SHANNON: But this project will help scientists learn more about our environment. Possibly even recreate it on other worlds.
HENRY: Other worlds? Don't we have enough problems on the one we're on?
SHANNON: Yeah. Which is why I'd like to get the hell off it one day.
HENRY: I think you're taking this exploring a little too far.
SHANNON: And you're so afraid of change you can barely walk out that front door. The Millennium Gate has a lot of potential, Henry. You just can't see it. All you can see are these books. You're living in the past.
HENRY: Sounds like you've been sleeping with the enemy.
SHANNON: Having a beer, anyway.
HENRY: Moss.
SHANNON: He offered me a job.
HENRY: Doing what?
SHANNON: Consulting engineer.
HENRY: On the Millennium Gate?
SHANNON: I said I'd think about it.
HENRY: And he said, get Janeway to sign on the dotted line and you're hired?
SHANNON: That's one way of looking at it.
HENRY: And when I say no, then what? You're going to go with them, right? To Canton, Ohio, or the Third Circle of Hell, or wherever it is they decide to build this damn thing.
SHANNON: I can't keep living out of my car.
HENRY: You don't have to. Stay here.
SHANNON: No.
HENRY: Why not?
SHANNON: Because I can't.
HENRY: That's not a reason.
SHANNON: Because I don't want to! You've been really nice to me, Henry, but I can't get stuck here.
HENRY: Stuck? Like me?
SHANNON: I didn't say that. You can live however you want to.
HENRY: And so can you.
JASON: What's going on?
HENRY: We're helping our guest resume her journey.
JASON: But I thought you were staying here for a while.
SHANNON: Something came up.
HENRY: We can manage by ourselves. I guess saying goodbye isn't that difficult after all.
HENRY: Jason. Jason, where you going?
JASON: Aunt Pat's. Happy New Year.

[Street]
HENRY: Jason? Jason!

[Ready room]
KIM: It was around 2210. My uncle Jack was on a deep space mission to Beta Capricus.
PARIS: That's when deep space meant the next star over.
KIM: And that was when they still had to go into stasis. So, Jack put his crew under as soon as they left orbit, and piloted the ship by himself for six months.
NEELIX: No contact with anybody along the way?
KIM: There wasn't anybody along the way. Not back then. The transmitter wasn't even subspace. It took weeks to get a message back to Earth.
SEVEN: I would prefer stasis.
PARIS: Me too. That long alone, I'd probably go a little batty.
KIM: So, six months to Beta Capricus and when they finally arrive, there's nothing there.
NEELIX: No planets?
KIM: No. No star, no nothing. It turns out Beta Capricus was just an EM echo of a distant galaxy.
SEVEN: What was his course of action?
KIM: What else could he do? He turned the ship around and headed home.
JANEWAY: And the crew?
KIM: He figured there was no reason to bother them. There's nothing to see, nothing to do. So six months later he gets back to Earth, brings everybody out of stasis, and they wake up wondering why they haven't left orbit.
JANEWAY: Come in.
EMH: Oh. I didn't realize you were in a briefing.
JANEWAY: Not at all. We're talking about our family histories.
EMH: Oh. This can wait. May I join you?
JANEWAY: Please.
EMH: I, too, come from a distinguished line.
PARIS: His cousin's an electric shaver.
EMH: Hardly. My program was compiled from the most advanced holo-matrices in the Federation. My cousin was a prize-winning chess program.
SEVEN: Ensign Paris, you have yet to elaborate on your family origins.
PARIS: Well, they were a pretty ordinary bunch, salt of the earth type people. Farmers, mostly. Some planetary colonists. Ah, but there was one. He was a pilot. He flew the first orbital glider over the lower Martian plateau.
NEELIX: Mars? Your ancestor must have known the Captain's.
JANEWAY: She did work on all the early Mars projects. Looks like we go way back, Mister Paris.
PARIS: What was her name?
JANEWAY: Shannon O'Donnel.
PARIS: O'Donnel. I don't think so.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
PARIS: Well, I know all the Mars projects from the 1970s on. Unmanned, manned, who's who. There were no O'Donnels in any of them.
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Ship's status report.
JANEWAY: Let me guess. The holographic engineer is having problems with her program. Neelix, the Cardassian cook, is low on supplies. Seven of Twelve is regenerating and Captain Chakotay is doing just fine. Just wondering how they'll piece together our lives a few hundred years from now.
CHAKOTAY: Depends on how big the pieces are.
JANEWAY: A PADD here, a
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log there, maybe a couple of holodeck programs. It won't be as much to go on as we might think. I've gone through dozens of histories written about twenty first century Earth, all of them biased in one way or another. The Vulcans describe First Contact with a savagely illogical race. Ferengi talk about Wall Street as if it were holy ground. The Bolians express dismay at the low quality of human plumbing. And human historians? Exact same story. Every culture saw it a different way. So I go back to the raw material. Birth certificates, death certificates, marriage certificates, census surveys, voter registration forms, housing records, medical, employment, court records. It's all fragmented and incomplete.
CHAKOTAY: So, did she exist?
JANEWAY: Her name was Shannon O'Donnel. She did train to be an astronaut, but she didn't finish. She was an engineer, but never worked on the Mars missions.
CHAKOTAY: Did she work on the Millennium Gate?
JANEWAY: Only as a consultant.
CHAKOTAY: What about all the opposition you spoke of? You said she fought to get the project underway.
JANEWAY: There was no opposition. In fact, the Millennium Gate was greeted with open arms by the local population. Except for one man.
CHAKOTAY: Henry Janeway.
JANEWAY: She married him, and changed her name. But she certainly never changed history.
CHAKOTAY: Don't be too hard on her. She may not have known she was supposed to live up to your expectations.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'll get over it. The question is, when we get back to Earth, how will I break the news to Aunt Martha?

[Bar]
COLLINS (screen): With less than three hours to go, Henry Janeway still refuses to cooperate with Millennium Gate representatives. I'll return with live updates as midnight approaches. Marci Collins, Channel Three News.
MOSS: I don't suppose there's any chance he'll change his mind?
SHANNON: By midnight? Doubtful.
MOSS: Then it looks like we'll have to scrub the launch, at least where Portage Creek is concerned. It's a shame how one ignorant man can stand in the way of progress.
SHANNON: It's not that simple.
MOSS: Henry's a very likable guy, but he's playing for the wrong team. He's looking back. This town needs people who look towards the future.
SHANNON: Well, while you're looking forward, I'll be driving to Florida.
MOSS: Wait a minute. I'm not about to turn a fellow explorer out into the cold.
SHANNON: I didn't hold up my end of the bargain.
MOSS: If we didn't think you had something to add to this project, we never would have made the offer in the first place. Henry Janeway's pigheadedness doesn't change that. We could still use your help, just not here.
MOSS: My associate in Canton. I'll tell him you're on the way. He'll find a place for you.
JASON: Shannon!
SHANNON: What's the matter?
JASON: It's Dad.
MOSS: See you in Ohio?
JASON: He won't leave the shop. There's all these people outside. The police are there.
SHANNON: Your father can take care of himself.
JASON: Please, won't you talk to him? He'll listen to you.
SHANNON: No, he doesn't, Jason.
JASON: Where are you going? And what's this about I'll see you in Ohio?
SHANNON: Ohio. Florida.
JASON: What's wrong with this place?
SHANNON: It didn't work out.
JASON: I thought you liked us.
SHANNON: I do.
JASON: Then why are you leaving?
SHANNON: I'm sorry.

[Shannon's car - driving]
SHANNON: December 31st, 2000. Eleven fifteen pm. I've got ninety five miles of Interstate before I have to decide whether I head east or south, but those ninety five miles won't be uneventful. My guidebook tells me I'm not too far from Leonardo da Vinci's Last Supper, recreated entirely in corn.
SHANNON: The last few days have been memorable, to say the least. I met Henry Janeway. Interesting man. Liked to talk. Unfortunately, he doesn't listen to anybody but himself. He gave me a place to stay, though. And we had dinner. In Paris, no less. He has a son. Good kid. Bright, like his father.

[Outside Alexandria Books]
MOSS: I personally don't regret a single day I've spent in this lovely town, and I want to thank you all for your encouragement and support.
COLLINS: Would you consider extending your deadline?
SHANNON: Excuse me. I'm sorry.
POLICEMAN: No further.
MOSS: I'm afraid that's not possible. We'd like to express our deepest regrets to the town of Portage Creek and on behalf of. Excuse me.
COLLINS: Get this.
MOSS: Let her through.

[Alexandria Books]
HENRY: We're closed.
SHANNON (voiceover): It's me!
HENRY: I said, we're closed.
SHANNON (voiceover): That's not what the sign says. Damn it, Henry, it's cold out here.
HENRY: Who's with you?
SHANNON (voiceover): Nobody but us galliforms.
HENRY: Thought you'd be in Ohio by now. Car break down again? What the hell are you doing?
SHANNON: Get your things. We're leaving.
HENRY: I'm not going anywhere.
SHANNON: Do I have to drag you out the front door?
HENRY: You can try.
SHANNON: Henry.
HENRY: I won't leave.
SHANNON: It's over.
HENRY: Then I'll have to ask you to leave.
SHANNON: Half the town is out there. You're on the news. Maybe you'll go down in history. You have made your point.
HENRY: Obviously, I haven't, because if I had you wouldn't be asking me to sign my life away.
SHANNON: Maybe if you'd looked up from your books once in a while you'd see what's in front of you.
HENRY: Oh, please, no more speeches about the future.
SHANNON: As long as I don't have to hear you pontificate about the past.
HENRY: It's a deal. Glad we had this chat. Goodbye.
SHANNON: It's almost midnight, Henry.
HENRY: Exactly. I've won.
SHANNON: What have you won? The right to hide behind these shelves for the rest of your life?
HENRY: It's worked so far.
SHANNON: Well, it isn't working for your son, or this town, or me.
HENRY: Look, I know you've got a job to do.
SHANNON: Oh, this isn't about the job.
HENRY: Then why are you here?
SHANNON: It was the cookies.
HENRY: Cookies?
SHANNON: I was on the Interstate. I stopped for gas, and I bought a bag of chocolate chip cookies in a convenience store. It's a little ritual of mine. Whenever I get back on the highway, I like to treat myself.
HENRY: I see. Well, er, what does this have to do with anything?
SHANNON: They didn't taste good, Henry. It wasn't the same. I just kept thinking about you, and how I wish you'd been there.
HENRY: Actually, I prefer oatmeal cookies. I'm allergic to chocolate.
SHANNON: Oh, you don't know what you're missing. It's been a long time, but I'm starting to feel like maybe I found a place where I'd like to stick around for a while, with you and Jason.
HENRY: And we'd like to have you.
SHANNON: But I can't work in a bookstore for the rest of my life. I've been given a second chance, Henry, and I can't lose that. I'm stuck in the future, you're stuck in the past. But maybe we could get unstuck in the present.
HENRY: I, I don't see how with, without sacrificing my
SHANNON: You know, Mister Moss offered me a job in Canton, even though I failed to keep up my end of the bargain. I guess he felt sorry for me. But I'm prepared to turn him down if you want me to stay with you.
HENRY: I suppose I could re-open my shop in that monstrosity you want to build.
SHANNON: Well, I'll have a few connections. I could probably get you a nice remote location, so nobody would bother you.
HENRY: Not much profit in that. You sure you won't drive away again?
SHANNON: No, But if I do, we'll make the trip together.
HENRY: What time is it?
SHANNON: A minute to midnight.
HENRY: Then we're not too late.

[Janeway's quarters]
NEELIX (voiceover): Neelix to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Yes?
NEELIX (voiceover): Captain, would you mind coming to the mess hall?
JANEWAY: Is there a problem?
NEELIX (voiceover): No, no emergency. But I need to speak with you. A personal matter.
JANEWAY: Give me a minute.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Happy Ancestor's Eve!
ALL: Happy Ancestor's Eve, Captain.
JANEWAY: What's all this?
NEELIX: It's April 22, Ancestor's Eve. It's a holiday first established, er, well, er, today, actually. With the Captain's permission.
JANEWAY: Neelix.
CHAKOTAY: I think he's onto something, Captain. An evening of reflection in honor of those who came before.
KIM: Here, here, Uncle Jack would approve.
TORRES: It got me out from under a warp conduit. I'm all for it.
JANEWAY: I appreciate what you're trying to do, but
PARIS: Neelix, the gift.
JANEWAY: What gift?
NEELIX: Shannon O'Donnel Janeway, circa 2050. We did a little more research. This photograph was taken in a small park near Portage Creek, thirty eight years after the dedication of the Millennium Gate. I thought it would look nice in your ready room, on the shelf next to your desk.
JANEWAY: Thank you, But I'm not so sure she has a place there any more.
SEVEN: You are mistaken, Captain.
JANEWAY: Oh?
SEVEN: Her life captured your imagination. Historical details are irrelevant.
TUVOK: I concur with that analysis.
CHAKOTAY: If it weren't for Shannon O'Donnel, you never would have joined Starfleet.
JANEWAY: Yeah, and I would have never have got you all stuck here in the Delta Quadrant.
TORRES: It gave us all time to get to know each other.
EMH: Time for a family portrait of our own. Everyone, gather around the Captain, please. Face the camera. Smile.
JANEWAY: To family.
ALL: To family.
EMH: Another one for posterity.
JANEWAY: No, no.
PARIS: I think we should get out of here.
JANEWAY: Enough is enough.

[2050]
SHANNON: Knock it off, Kieran. That's an order.

[2371 Transporter room]
PATTERSON: You're late.
JANEWAY: Sorry, sir.
PATTERSON: What's the threshold of the H-two molecule?
JANEWAY: Fourteen point seven electron volts.
PATTERSON: Third brightest star in Orion?
JANEWAY: Viewed from where?
PATTERSON: Earth.
JANEWAY: Gamma Orionis, or Bellatrix, if you prefer the original Arabic name.
PATTERSON: Not bad. Now, give me a hug, Katie, that's an order.
JANEWAY: I wasn't expecting a pop quiz.
PATTERSON: Just wanted to make sure all those pips haven't made you forget you're a scientist first.
JANEWAY: How could they? I still have nightmares about your fractal calculus final.

[2371 Corridor]
PATTERSON: There's still some work to be done, but once the sawdust clears, I think you'll be impressed. Voyager may not be as big as a Galaxy class ship but she's quick and smart, like her Captain.
JANEWAY: Seven hundred thousand metric tons, fifteen decks, and computer systems augmented with bio-neural circuitry, top cruising speed warp nine point nine seven five.

[2371 Turbolift]
PATTERSON: Deck one.
JANEWAY: Of course, I expect to get that up another notch or two.
PATTERSON: Sounds like you already know your ship pretty well.
JANEWAY: I've been buried in Voyager's schematics for the past three months. I could walk the corridors blindfolded.
PATTERSON: You might not want to shut your eyes just yet.

[2371 Bridge]
PATTERSON: Captain on the bridge.
JANEWAY: As you were. It's bigger than I expected.
PATTERSON: Schematics never fully prepare you for the real thing.
PATTERSON: Try it on. Don't get too comfortable, I have more to show you.

[2371 Ready room]
PATTERSON: Your home away from home.
JANEWAY: Coffee?
PATTERSON: Ah, no thanks.
JANEWAY: Coffee, black. Any word from Tuvok?
PATTERSON: Not yet.
JANEWAY: Shouldn't he have made contact by now?
PATTERSON: We know he's aboard Chakotay's ship. He's probably decided not to risk exposure until he has to.
JANEWAY: Catching up with him in the Badlands is going to be tricky, even in a ship as quick and smart as Voyager. I've heard about a pilot who might make the job easier.
PATTERSON: Who's that?
JANEWAY: Tom Paris.
PATTERSON: Admiral Paris's son? Correct me if I'm wrong, but he's serving a sentence for
JANEWAY: He's made some mistakes. But everybody deserves a second chance.
PATTERSON: I'll look into it.

[2371 Bridge]
JANEWAY: If it's not too late, I'd like to recalibrate the navigational sensors. I think I can enhance the range.
PATTERSON: Your coffee's not even cold, you're already making changes.
JANEWAY: Excuse us, Ensign. I like a ship that knows where it's going.
PATTERSON: I assure you, Voyager has the best sensors in the fleet.
JANEWAY: There's always room for improvement.
PATTERSON: I assume you've read
JANEWAY: I have. A few changes

[2371 Briefing room]
SEVEN: The bridge is clear. No sign of the weapon.
DUCANE (voiceover): Continue scanning.
SEVEN: Acknowledged.
PATTERSON: Your briefing room.
JANEWAY: Starfleet's most up to date vessel and they still can't design a comfortable place to hold a meeting. What do you think, Ensign?
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: What's your opinion of this room?
SEVEN: It is an efficient design.
JANEWAY: Well, there you have it, Admiral. It's efficient. I must be wrong. Carry on.

[2371 Sickbay]
PATTERSON: We've added a new system we're thinking of installing throughout the fleet.
JANEWAY: The Emergency Medical Hologram. I'm up to date. Computer, activate EMH.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
PATTERSON: It's programmed with over four million surgical procedures.
EMH: Five million, and the medical knowledge of over three thousand cultures.
JANEWAY: Impressive.
EMH: Did you call me to chitchat or is there an actual emergency?
JANEWAY: Its personality could use some work.
EMH: I'm designed to practice medicine as efficiently as possible. Small talk only compromises my performance.
PATTERSON: Thank you, Doctor. Computer, deactivate EMH.

[2371 Engineering]
CAREY: Hello.
SEVEN: Sir.
CAREY: Lieutenant Carey. I don't think we've met.
SEVEN: Jameson, Anna, Service number eight six zero seven nine zero.
CAREY: I'm not security. I'm just trying to get to know all the new faces around here. What are you working on?
SEVEN: I am attempting to realign the EPS manifolds.
CAREY: Do you need a hand?
SEVEN: No.
CAREY: Well, maybe I'll see you in the mess hall later.
SEVEN: Unlikely.
CAREY: Hmm?
SEVEN: I am not a member of Voyager's crew. I'm on assignment here at Utopia Planitia.
CAREY: Too bad. Well, next time I'm in the neighborhood, I'll drop by and say hello.

[2371 Corridor]
JANEWAY: I wish Starfleet would give me more than three weeks. With a little more time we could really explore the Badlands.
PATTERSON: You haven't changed a bit.

[2371 Engineering]
PATTERSON: Main Engineering. Class nine warp drive, tricyclic input manifold. You'll be the first to test it in deep space.

[2371 Jefferies tube]
SEVEN: I've localized the temporal distortions. Deck four, section thirty nine.
SEVEN: I've found the weapon.
DUCANE: Begin the procedure.

[2371 Engineering]
JANEWAY: Problem?
CAREY: One of the EPS relays just went offline.
JANEWAY: Voyager's first malfunction.
CAREY: I'm sorry, Captain. I tested those systems this morning.
JANEWAY: As you were, Lieutenant. I've been looking forward to getting my hands dirty.

[2371 Jefferies tube]
SEVEN: The weapon is out of phase. You've sent me to the wrong time frame.
DUCANE (voiceover): At least we know where the weapon was placed. Now we have to determine when.

[2371 Outside the Jefferies tube]
JANEWAY: This hatch is locked from the inside.
PATTERSON: This isn't a secure area. None of these hatches should be sealed.
JANEWAY: I'm reading some kind of chronoton flux.
PATTERSON: Chronotons?
JANEWAY: It's coming from inside this Jefferies tube.
PATTERSON: Patterson to Security. Seal off deck four.

[2371 Jefferies tube]
SEVEN: I've been detected. I must leave.
BRAXTON (voiceover): There's too much interference from the weapon. Recalibrate your temporal transport beacon.
SEVEN: Understood.

[2371 Corridor]
JANEWAY: We can access section thirty nine through here.

[2371 Jefferies tube]
BRAXTON (voiceover): Scramble the locking mechanism before they get in. Hurry, they're approaching your coordinates. You'll need to reset the command controls.
DUCANE (voiceover): Stand by. We're trying to get you out of there.

[Relativity]
BRAXTON: It's time. Pull her out.
DUCANE: There's too much interference. If I transport her now we'll damage her bionetic implants.
BRAXTON: If we don't, Captain Janeway's going to find her and it'll contaminate the timeline.
DUCANE: Sir.
BRAXTON: Now.
CREWMAN: Temporal transport in progress.

[2371 Jefferies tube]
JANEWAY: Question, Admiral. What causes a chronoton flux of point zero zero three?
PATTERSON: I don't know.
JANEWAY: Neither do I, but whoever or whatever it was, it's gone now.

[Relativity transporter room]
CREWMAN: The subject is approaching the temporal threshold.
DUCANE: I told you this was going to happen. She's dead.

[Relativity]
BRAXTON: Any luck reviving her?
DUCANE: No, sir.
BRAXTON: We'll have to recruit her again.
DUCANE: Sir, a fourth jump? She could suffer neural damage, even temporal psychosis.
BRAXTON: Unless we repair the timeline, she's going to die. We're giving her another chance to save her crew and herself. We'll go back and retrieve Seven of Nine a microsecond before the explosion. That way no one will notice she's gone. Tempus fugit, Lieutenant.
DUCANE: Raise shields. Time frame, stardate 52861.274. Delta Quadrant. Spatial coordinates eighty seven theta by two seventy one. Target, USS Voyager.

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: Follow the light. To the left, right, and up, and down. Hmm.
SEVEN: I ran a complete self-diagnostic.
EMH: Hmm hmm?
SEVEN: At first I thought my ocular implants were malfunctioning. However, after consulting the Starfleet Medical database, I realize it is a flaw in my human physiology.
EMH: Specifically?
SEVEN: I'm experiencing dizziness, double vision. After considering all potential environmental and genetic factors, I've concluded I'm suffering from Albright-Salzman syndrome.
EMH: A rare neurological condition that hasn't affected a single human being for over two centuries. Unlikely.
SEVEN: Human physiology is imperfect, susceptible to a variety of disorders.
EMH: True, but in this instance, we can safely say that you are suffering from a mild case of sensory aphasia. A minor disruption to your neuro-receptors. Neither rare, nor life-threatening.
SEVEN: Apparently I was in need of a second opinion.
EMH: That's the danger of self-diagnosis. Patients always assume the worst. This should clear it up. How do things look now?
SEVEN: Normal.
CREWWOMAN (voiceover): Doctor, please report to Sickbay.
EMH: On my way. Next time your human physiology fails you, don't consult the database. Just call me.
SEVEN: You are the database.
EMH: With two legs and a splendid bedside manner.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: A curious exercise.
PARIS: Yeah. Ping-Pong. You should try it, it's a great test of hand-eye coordination.
SEVEN: I don't require testing.
EMH: Yeah, so the Doc tells me. A visual acuity index of ninety nine point six. You know, you'd be great at this game. Why don't you be my partner in the doubles tournament tonight? Chapman was supposed to play, but he's come down with a nasty case of space sickness.
SEVEN: I'm busy.
PARIS: Oh, too bad. Well, I guess I'll have to tell B'Elanna that you thought you couldn't beat her.
SEVEN: You're attempting to appeal to my vanity.
PARIS: Is it working?
SEVEN: I will consider your request.
PARIS: It's yes or no, Seven. The tournament's tonight.
SEVEN: Yes.
PARIS: Great. Meet me in the mess hall at nineteen hundred hours. We'll get in a little practice first.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Captain, you don't look well. Come in, please.
JANEWAY: I'm sure it's nothing serious.
EMH: Symptoms?
JANEWAY: Nausea, dizziness.
EMH: It looks like a simple case of space sickness. The third one I've treated today.
JANEWAY: That's odd. We haven't run into any turbulence.
EMH: It's possible the inertial dampers are out of alignment.
JANEWAY: Even so, I've been on some pretty rough rides. It's never affected me like this
EMH: It happens to everyone. Twenty milligrams of inaprovaline should restore your space legs.
JANEWAY: I'll check the dampers. Double check your bio-readings. See if there's another explanation.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: Yes!
NEELIX: Point, server.
PARIS: It's all in the wrist.
TORRES: Score?
NEELIX: Nineteen eighteen.
PARIS: Say goodnight, Harry.
KIM: What do you call that shot?
SEVEN: I'm reading temporal distortions.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: Report.
TORRES: The temporal distortions are fracturing space-time throughout the ship.
JANEWAY: Cause?
TUVOK: Unknown. They appear to be emanating from deck four, section thirty nine.
TORRES: We've already erected forcefields but they're not having much effect. If we can't find a way to stop them, they'll tear the ship apart.
JANEWAY: How much time do we have?
TUVOK: Two hours at most.
JANEWAY: Go to deck four and find out what we're dealing with. Let's see if we can find a way to enhance the forcefields.

[Sickbay]
EMH: An injection a day keeps space sickness away. You try to be funny after treating thirty seven cases of nausea.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Sickbay.
EMH: Go ahead.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We've found the source of our epidemic. Temporal distortions.
EMH: I was beginning to suspect some kind of anomaly. I've designed a treatment that seems to be inhibiting the symptoms.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Keep me posted.
EMH: Aye, Captain.
NEELIX (voiceover): Neelix to the Doctor. I've got a medical emergency in the Mess hall. Ensign Mannus is violently ill.
EMH: On my way. Take over here.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Doctor, shall I whip you up a photonic snack?
EMH: Where's the medical emergency?
NEELIX: I hope you're not referring to this pot roast.
EMH: You called me a few minutes ago. You said Ensign Mannus was ill.
NEELIX: I did?
EMH: Yes.
NEELIX: Ensign Mannus is right over there. He came in an hour ago and he looks perfectly normal.
EMH: Acute space sickness.
NEELIX: Good thing you were here.
EMH: I wouldn't have been, if you hadn't. Temporal distortions.
NEELIX: Doctor?
EMH: This is all starting to make sense. In Sickbay, it's fifteen hundred hours forty three minutes, but in the mess hall, it's fifteen thirty six.
NEELIX: Seven minutes earlier.
EMH: I did get a call from you. You just haven't made it yet.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Coffee, black. Come in. Before you say anything, let me remind you what happens to bearers of bad news.
CHAKOTAY: Don't kill the messenger.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, fire.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like these space-time fractures are growing stronger. We're detecting temporal paradoxes throughout the ship.
JANEWAY: Paradoxes?
CHAKOTAY: Internal chronometers show it's oh six hundred on deck nine and oh six hundred five on deck thirteen. Time's passing more quickly in some parts of the ship and slowing down in others.
JANEWAY: Maybe that explains why this coffee tastes like it's three days old.
CHAKOTAY: The same thing's been happening in the mess hall. Food replicated less than an hour ago is already spoiled.
JANEWAY: I've been working on a way to enhance our containment fields, to keep the fractures from spreading,
CHAKOTAY: I'll get a team on it right away. In the meantime, we should evacuate the affected areas.
JANEWAY: See to it.
CHAKOTAY: There's one other problem.
CHAKOTAY: Turbolifts two and three are offline so we've been using the Jefferies tube.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: There's a temporal distortion intersecting this room. It's expanding.
CHAKOTAY: Time to test your new containment fields.

[Jefferies tube]
TORRES: This is where they're coming from. I still can't tell what's causing them.
TORRES: What is it?
SEVEN: A piece of technology. It's emitting temporal distortions.
TORRES: Why can't I see it?
SEVEN: My ocular implant can detect irregularities in space-time.
TORRES: Torres to bridge. We've found the problem.

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): There's some kind of device in junction beta twenty eight.
JANEWAY: Beam it off the ship
TUVOK: I can't get a lock.
KIM: The distortions are beginning to demolecularise the hull. Hull breach, ventral section fourteen.
KIM: Captain, I'm picking up a strange reading on deck four.
JANEWAY: What kind of reading?
KIM: It's a chronoton flux, point zero zero three.
CHAKOTAY: More distortions?
KIM: I don't think so.
JANEWAY: Dry dock.
KIM: Ma'am?
JANEWAY: The first time I saw these readings was five years ago. Voyager was still in dry dock. Same readings, same location.
KIM: What caused them?
JANEWAY: I never found out.
CHAKOTAY: We're losing structural integrity.
TUVOK: Multiple breaches, all decks. Emergency systems are failing.
CHAKOTAY: The distortions are ripping us apart. We have to abandon ship.
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Proceed to the escape pods and abandon ship. Repeat, abandon ship.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Program the pods for a heading of one seven eight mark four. We'll rendezvous in orbit of an M class planet at those coordinates. Repeat. All hands proceed to the escape pods and abandon ship.
SEVEN: Identify yourselves.
DUCANE: No time.

[Relativity]
BRAXTON: Welcome back.
SEVEN: Why have you brought me here?
BRAXTON: For some reason, I always think you'll remember. I'm Captain Braxton. This is Lieutenant Ducane. You're aboard the Federation Timeship Relativity.
SEVEN: I'm no longer in the twenty fourth century?
BRAXTON: No. For you, it's almost five hundred years later. We've brought you here to help us solve a mystery. Someone, we don't know who, has planted a weapon aboard Voyager. It's designed to fracture space-time within a radius of one hundred and fifty meters.
SEVEN: Why do you need me?
DUCANE: Your ocular implant. It can detect disruptions in space-time better than our sensors.
BRAXTON: You're more familiar with Voyager and her crew, less likely to arouse suspicion. So far, you've been quite useful.
SEVEN: So far?
BRAXTON: We've recruited you twice before for this mission. Take a look. A force three temporal disrupter. Your previous attempts to disable it have been unsuccessful.
DUCANE: We're trying to catch the saboteur before he places the weapon on Voyager.
SEVEN: Do you have a suspect?
DUCANE: Not yet.
SEVEN: Do you know when the device was placed?
DUCANE: Not precisely, but we've narrowed the window to a period two years before you joined the crew, when the ship was under attack.
SEVEN: Species three two nine, the Kazon.
DUCANE: Our database indicates Voyager was boarded twice during that period.
SEVEN: The Kazon are an inferior species. They don't possess the technology to create such a complex weapon.
DUCANE: We believe the saboteur infiltrated this time frame because Voyager's shields were down. It was the perfect opportunity to evade the detection.
SEVEN: If I fail, you will recruit me again.
BRAXTON: If necessary. This'll be the third time you're going to be removed from your time frame. If we do it a fourth, there could be certain side effects.
SEVEN: Side effects?
DUCANE: You might experience sensory aphasia. It affects the cerebral cortex and can lead to temporal psychosis.
BRAXTON: But in your case we're hoping third time's a charm, eh?
SEVEN: I'll do my best.
BRAXTON: Bring her up to date on our protocols.
DUCANE: Aye, sir.
BRAXTON: When you're finished here, meet me in holomatrix one. I've prepared a simulation.
DUCANE: Let's see how much you've assimilated. The Dali paradox.
SEVEN: Also known as the Melting Clock Effect. It refers to a temporal fissure which slows the passage of time to a gradual halt.
DUCANE: The Pogo Paradox.
SEVEN: A causality loop in which interference to prevent an event actually triggers the same event.
DUCANE: Excellent. Can you give me an example?
SEVEN: The Borg once traveled back in time to stop Zefram Cochrane from breaking the warp barrier. They succeeded, but that in turn led the starship Enterprise to intervene. They assisted Cochrane with the flight the Borg was trying to prevent. Causal loop complete.
DUCANE: So, in a way, the Federation owes its existence to the Borg.
SEVEN: You're welcome. The Seven of Nine paradox.
DUCANE: I beg your pardon?
SEVEN: How we do know that my presence on Voyager will not alter the timeline?
DUCANE: You know, you've asked me this every time.
SEVEN: What's been your response?
DUCANE: That uncertainty is part of the equation. We don't know what's going to happen.
SEVEN: I don't enjoy uncertainty.
DUCANE: Neither do I. But I trust Captain Braxton's instincts, just as you trust Captain Janeway's.

[Relativity Holomatrix]
BRAXTON: This is a simulation of junction forty nine on Voyager's fourth deck. Thanks to you, we've learned that the temporal disrupter was, and will be, concealed here. I gave up trying to keep my tenses straight years ago.
SEVEN: How will I disarm it?
BRAXTON: You've already tried, unsuccessfully. The weapon's out of phase. You'll have to find the saboteur before he plants it. This will detect any chronoton flux other than your own, and I'm authorizing you to use whatever force may be necessary.
SEVEN: Understood.
BRAXTON: One more thing. Watch out for the Janeway Factor.
SEVEN: I am not familiar with that protocol.
BRAXTON: Your Captain has a knack for sticking her nose where it doesn't belong, especially when it comes to time travel.
SEVEN: Captain Janeway is quite resourceful. Has it occurred to you that she may be helpful?
BRAXTON: Helpful? That woman has been responsible for three major temporal incursions.
SEVEN: No doubt creating numerous paradoxes.
BRAXTON: And who do you think had to repair the damage? Me. She's reckless. She has no regard for the integrity of the timeline. I asked for her help once. She refused and I ended up stranded in the late twentieth century. Have you ever been to that time frame?
SEVEN: No.
BRAXTON: Well, I don't recommend it. After three decades with those post-industrial barbarians I had to go through extensive rehabilitation before I could return to duty. Avoid contact with Janeway. That's an order.
SEVEN: Yes, sir.

[Relativity]
DUCANE: This will occlude your Borg implants. Ready?
SEVEN: Yes.
BRAXTON: We have a saying in our line of work. There's no time like the past.
DUCANE: Raise shields. Time frame, stardate 49123.5621. Delta quadrant. Spatial coordinates, twenty one alpha prime by nine three six zeta. Target, USS Voyager.

[2372 Corridor]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): All hands to battle stations. We're under attack. Repeat, all hands to battle stations.

[2372 Bridge]
JANEWAY: Return fire.
PARIS: Dropping spatial charges.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers.
TUVOK: Shields down to twenty percent.
CHAKOTAY: Another Kazon ship is approaching.

[2372 Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Engineering. We need warp engines.
TORRES: I can't give them to you. Not until I've repaired the containment generator.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Time?
TORRES: I'll need ten minutes at least.

[2372 Bridge]
KIM: Captain, I'm picking up a strange reading on deck four.
JANEWAY: What kind of reading?
KIM: It's a chronoton flux, point zero zero three.
CHAKOTAY: Any idea what's causing it?
KIM: Not yet.
TUVOK: It could be random interference from Kazon weapons fire.
JANEWAY: I don't think so. I've seen these readings before.

[2372 Jefferies tube]
SEVEN: There's no sign of the weapon.

[Relativity]
BRAXTON: Any uninvited guests?

[2372 Jefferies tube]
SEVEN: Not yet.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The lead vessel's been disabled. The others are regrouping.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, status.
TORRES (voiceover): Warp drive's online, but the containment field's still unstable. Warp two is the best I can give you.
CHAKOTAY: I'll take it. Engage.
PARIS: They're not pursuing.
JANEWAY: Dry dock.
KIM: Ma'am?
JANEWAY: The first time I saw these readings was over two years ago when Voyager was in dry dock. Same readings, same location.
KIM: What caused them?
JANEWAY: I never found out. The signal vanished before we could isolate it. Erect a level ten forcefield around that section.
CHAKOTAY: Is this really the time to be chasing sensor ghosts?
JANEWAY: Something tells me this is more than a coincidence. Seal off deck four. Tuvok, you're with me.

[2372 Jefferies tube]
SEVEN: They've erected forcefields around my location. I may have been detected. How shall I proceed? Lieutenant, respond.

[Relativity]
BRAXTON: What's wrong?
DUCANE: The forcefields are blocking our transmissions.
BRAXTON: Compensate. Seven of Nine, report.
SEVEN (voiceover): Relativity, are you there?
DUCANE: It's no use, sir. She can't hear us.

[2372 Corridor]
JANEWAY: I don't believe we've been introduced, Ensign.
SEVEN: Lower the forcefield.
JANEWAY: I stand corrected. We have met. Utopia

[Relativity]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Planitia, the briefing room. You told me it

[2372 Corridor]
JANEWAY: Was efficient.

[Relativity]
BRAXTON: Janeway.
SEVEN (voiceover): You've

[2372 Corridor]
SEVEN: Mistaken me for someone else.
JANEWAY: Oh, I don't think so.

[Relativity]
JANEWAY (voiceover): So, here you are, two years later

[2372 Corridor]
JANEWAY: On the other side of the galaxy. Imagine that.
SEVEN: You're preventing me from completing a vital mission.
JANEWAY: Who are you, and what are you doing on my ship?

[Relativity]
BRAXTON: Don't say anything
DUCANE: She can't hear you, sir.
SEVEN (voiceover): My designation is irrelevant, But I assure you I have no hostile

[2372 Corridor]
SEVEN: Intentions.
JANEWAY: Somehow, I don't find that very comforting. Are you working with the Kazon?
SEVEN: No, I am not.
TUVOK: I'm detecting biomechanical implants. They have a Borg signature.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the bridge. Scan the vicinity for Borg ships.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Did you say Borg?
JANEWAY: Do it.
SEVEN: You will find none.
JANEWAY: Then how did you get here?
SEVEN: I'm no longer Borg.
JANEWAY: Then who are you?
SEVEN: I can't answer your questions.

[Relativity]
BRAXTON: Good.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Why not?

[2372 Corridor]
SEVEN: It would be a violation of the Temporal Prime Directive.
JANEWAY: You're from another time?
SEVEN: Yes.

[Relativity]
BRAXTON: No.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Who sent you?

[2372 Corridor]
SEVEN: I can't tell you that. I would be risking damage to the timeline.
JANEWAY: I don't care if history itself comes unraveled, I want to know

[Relativity]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Why you're on my ship.

[2372 Corridor]
TUVOK: What's that?
SEVEN: You must release me.
TUVOK: Why?
SEVEN: Voyager is in grave danger.
JANEWAY: So we've noticed.
SEVEN: Not from the Kazon. From an act of sabotage. I've been sent here to stop it. The intruder has already boarded the ship. Please, your lives depend on it.
JANEWAY: You're not going anywhere until you tell me what's happening.
SEVEN: My name is Seven of Nine. I'm a member of your crew. Rather, I will be a member of your crew.

[Relativity]
SEVEN (voiceover): I've traveled back in time to try to prevent a disaster that will destroy Voyager.
BRAXTON: Get her out of there.
DUCANE: I'm trying.

[2372 Corridor]
JANEWAY: Let's see if I've got this straight. You're a Borg drone attempting to prevent a disaster that won't occur for another three years?
SEVEN: Three years six months and two days.
JANEWAY: Does this make any sense to you?
TUVOK: Like most time paradoxes, it's implausible, but not necessarily illogical.
SEVEN: Captain, when you take me from the Borg you are going to tell me that part of being human is learning to trust. Trust me now.
JANEWAY: Lower the forcefield.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Braxton. Respond.

[Relativity]
BRAXTON: Stay where you are. We're pulling you out.
SEVEN (voiceover): That would be unwise. I am pursuing the saboteur

[2372 Corridor]
SEVEN: With Captain Janeway's assistance.

[Relativity]
DUCANE: Tempus fugit.
BRAXTON: Proceed.

[2372 Corridor]
SEVEN: Yes, sir. The intruder is in junction fifty two beta.
JANEWAY: Take the starboard hatch.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.

[Jefferies tube]
SEVEN: Captain Braxton. Lower the temporal disruptor.
BRAXTON: It's armed. I'll activate it. Lower your weapons.
BRAXTON: Janeway.
JANEWAY: Have we met?
BRAXTON: Too many times, but you wouldn't remember. They haven't occurred yet.
BRAXTON (voiceover): Seven of Nine, report.
SEVEN: I have located the saboteur.
BRAXTON (voiceover): Who is it?
SEVEN: It's you,

[Relativity]
SEVEN (voiceover): Captain Braxton.
BRAXTON: Me?

[2372 Jefferies tube]
BRAXTON: More accurately, a future you.

[Relativity]
FUTURE BRAXTON (voiceover): Now let me complete our mission.
BRAXTON: Our mission? I don't know what you're talking about.
FUTURE BRAXTON (voiceover): Listen

[2372 Jefferies tube]
BRAXTON: very carefully. The circumstances of your life are going to change in the next few years. You'll be sent into rehabilitation again, forced to retire, and it's all because of Voyager.
SEVEN: Captain, I believe your future self is suffering from temporal psychosis.
BRAXTON: Well of course I am, you pedantic drone. The only way for me, for us, to recover is to obliterate Voyager from the timeline. That way, none of the events that caused this illness will have occurred.
JANEWAY: What events?
BRAXTON: Thirty years of exile on twentieth century Earth. The temporal inversion in the Takara sector. Three violations that I had to repair.

[Relativity]
BRAXTON: Can you get a lock on him?
DUCANE: Negative. He's activated a dispersal node. I should say, you've activated a dispersal node.
BRAXTON: Don't be absurd. I have no wish to sabotage Voyager.
DUCANE: Not yet.
BRAXTON: Remodulate the transporters. Find a way to cut through the interference. I gave you an order, Lieutenant.
DUCANE: I'm sorry, sir. I'm taking command of this vessel, and I'm relieving you of duty for crimes you're going to commit.
BRAXTON: I haven't done anything.
DUCANE: Seven of Nine

[2372 Jefferies tube]
DUCANE (voiceover): Apprehend Braxton.
BRAXTON: No.
SEVEN: Relativity, he's escaped.

[Relativity]
DUCANE: I'm tracking him. He's traveled to another time frame, two years earlier.
SEVEN (voiceover): Transport me to those coordinates.
DUCANE: That would be your fourth jump.
SEVEN (voiceover): I am aware of the risks.
DUCANE: Stand by.

[2372 Jefferies tube]
SEVEN: Thank you for your assistance.

[2371 Corridor]
PATTERSON: There's still some work to be done but, er, once the sawdust clears I think you'll be impressed. Voyager may not be as big as a Galaxy class ship but she's quick
SEVEN: Take cover!
JANEWAY: Security, report to deck four, section twelve. Erect forcefields around all access points. Is this part of the tour?

[Relativity]
SEVEN (voiceover): I've lost him.
DUCANE: He's still on Voyager

[2371 Corridor]
DUCANE (voiceover): But he's gone five years ahead.
SEVEN: Initiate transport.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: Yes!
NEELIX: Point, server.
PARIS: It's all in the wrist.
TORRES: Score?
NEELIX: Nineteen eighteen.
PARIS: Who are you?
PARIS: Bridge, intruder alert, deck two.
SEVEN: Explain.
FUTURE SEVEN: No time. You must apprehend him. He's trying to destroy Voyager.
DUCANE (voiceover): Seven of Nine, status.
FUTURE SEVEN: I am incapacitated. It's sensory aphasia.
DUCANE (voiceover): Stand by.

[Relativity]
DUCANE: I'm pulling you out.

[Mess hall]
SEVEN: Stop him. Your future depends on it.

[Relativity Bridge]
DUCANE: Braxton?
SEVEN: I disabled his tricorder. He's trapped there. Seven of Nine is pursuing him. She is efficient. She will succeed.
DUCANE: Let's hope so, because we've run out of options.

[Corridor]
BRAXTON: You again!
JANEWAY: I don't believe we've met, Ensign. No, I'm wrong, we have met. Captain Braxton.
BRAXTON: Not anymore. I've lost my rank thanks to you.
FUTURE SEVEN (voiceover): Seven of Nine to Seven of Nine. What's your status?
SEVEN: We've apprehended Braxton. How shall we proceed?
FUTURE SEVEN (voiceover): Stand by.

[Relativity Transporter pad]
BRAXTON: Long time no see.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Are you all right, Seven?
SEVEN: I believe we've just prevented Voyager's destruction.
JANEWAY: Would you care to explain how you

[Relativity]
JANEWAY: The Timeship Relativity.
SEVEN: We need your help.
DUCANE: This Seven of Nine stopped Braxton, but she created several temporal incursions along the way. She instigated a phaser fight at Utopia Planitia. She was seen by you and Lieutenant Tuvok two years before she joined your crew. And she interacted with her past self in front of fifteen crew members at a Ping-Pong tournament approximately six minutes ago. Your time frame, of course.
JANEWAY: Of course.
DUCANE: Needless to say, we need to clean up the timeline. Someone must go back to the beginning and prevent the chain of events from occurring in the first place.
SEVEN: I can't make another jump without damaging myself.
JANEWAY: I get the feeling I'm about to be drafted.
DUCANE: In exchange for leniency, Captain Braxton informed us of the precise moment he boarded Voyager to plant the weapon. We'll be sending you to stop him. Tell her.
BRAXTON: Deck four, section thirty eight. I'll stumble over a wounded crewmember. That will be your chance to capture me.
DUCANE: Don't miss it, or we'll have to do this all over again.
JANEWAY: Wait a minute, let me get this straight. I'm going back in time to stop Braxton. But you already have him.
DUCANE: And there's a third one in our brig. I arrested him earlier today. But, don't worry. They'll all be reintegrated in time for the trial.
JANEWAY: And Seven?
DUCANE: Oh, I assure you, when all this is over there'll be just one Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: All right. Let's get started before my headache gets any worse.

[2372 Corridor]
TORRES: Captain, a Kazon torpedo just blew out the containment generator. Do you want me to reroute emergency power or take the warp core offline?
JANEWAY: Use your best judgment.
TORRES: I thought you were on your way to the bridge.
JANEWAY: I have to take care of something first. Now get moving, Lieutenant.
JANEWAY: Send damage control teams to decks nine through fourteen. Seal the breaches if you can. I'll be on the Bridge. Keep me informed.
CREWWOMAN: Yes, ma'am.
BRAXTON: Oh!
JANEWAY: Come here often?

[Relativity]
DUCANE: Incursion factor point zero zero three six. It's better than I expected.
JANEWAY: Glad we could lend a hand. When do we go home?
DUCANE: You'll both be returned to your time frame. You'll be reintegrated with the other Seven of Nine. Since none of your time jumps were to your foreseeable future, only the past, I see no reason to resequence your memory engrams. But remember the Temporal Prime Directive. Discuss your experiences with no one.
JANEWAY: Understood.
DUCANE: Oh, Captain. Braxton was right about one thing. Voyager shows up on our sensors far too often. Try to avoid time travel.
JANEWAY: See you in the twenty fourth century.
SEVEN: I look forward to it, or should I say, backward?
JANEWAY: Don't get started.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: Show mercy.
NEELIX: Your people have a saying. Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me. In other words, your credit's no good here.
PARIS: I'll pay you back double with next month's replicator rations.
NEELIX: That's what you said when I let you replicate all those pork rinds for your monster movie marathon.
PARIS: Let me put it another way. This is a life and death situation.
NEELIX: Hyperbole won't help.
PARIS: I'm not exaggerating. This is the anniversary of my first date with B'Elanna.
NEELIX: And you forgot all about it?
PARIS: Yes. And if I don't come through with some kind of romantic dinner
NEELIX: All right, you've made your case.
PARIS: Neelix, you're a saint. Okay, that'll be one bottle of Mouton Rothschild, a 2342 if it's in the database. A Terrelian pheasant, steamed asparagus, and a single rose.
NEELIX: Where do you want it?
PARIS: You can send the food requisition to B'Elanna's replicator, the wine and the flower I'll take with me. I can't show up empty-handed.
KIM: Neelix, how about a pot of coffee while you're at it?
NEELIX: Coming right up.
KIM: Flowers and wine?
PARIS: Ah, anniversary. Coffee?
KIM: Bridge duty. I've got eight hours ahead of me.
NEELIX: Sitting in the big chair again?
KIM: Fourth night in a row.
PARIS: You're not fooling anyone.
KIM: Excuse me?
PARIS: You love these night shifts. Your chance to play Captain.
KIM: I'm not playing. This is an opportunity to get command experience. You might put in for some yourself.
PARIS: Oh, what's the point of trying to compete with an ambitious upstart like you? Just promise me one thing. When you reach the top, you'll remember all the little people you climbed over to get there. You won't make them work night shifts?

[Bridge]
KIM: Helm, status?
JENKINS: Same as it was twenty minutes ago.
KIM: Refresh my memory.
JENKINS: Current speed warp six point three, heading oh twenty one mark two. Permission to speak freely, sir?
KIM: Granted.
JENKINS: We're on the night shift. Relax.
KIM: One of these days you'll get the call to take the bridge, and maybe then you'll understand the burden of command.
KIM: Report.
JENKINS: It's an automated distress call.
KIM: Origin?
JENKINS: A class M planet, range point seven three light years, bearing two six one mark one five.
KIM: That would be a significant course change.
JENKINS: The burden of command is on your shoulders, sir. Of course, we could always wake Commander Chakotay.
KIM: No. Alter course.
KIM: Open a channel. This is Ensign Kim of the Starship Voyager. Can we be of assistance?
JENKINS: I'm not picking up on any lifesigns. I guess they didn't make it.
KIM: There could be any number of reasons why we're not detecting lifesigns. We'll have to go down there and take a look. I'll inform the Commander. Oh, Jenkins? The bridge is yours.

[Corridor]
KIM: I hope I made the right decision.
CHAKOTAY: About changing course or waking me up?
KIM: Sorry, sir, but I thought
CHAKOTAY: Relax, Harry, you did the right thing on both counts. Hey, why don't you lead the away team? I'll monitor your progress from the bridge.
KIM: Yes, sir.
EMH: The distress call was automated?
KIM: That's right. I'm hoping whoever sent it is still alive.
EMH: Who's leading the mission?
KIM: You're looking at him.
EMH: Really?
KIM: Problem?
EMH: No. I just thought, given the circumstances, a new planet, unknown hazards, that Commander Chakotay or Tuvok would be in charge.
KIM: I am a senior officer, Doc. I've been on this ship for five years. I think I can handle an away mission.
EMH: I certainly didn't mean any offense.

[Transporter room]
KIM: None taken.
EMH: Of course, having me on the team will certainly compensate for any lack of experience on your part.
KIM: Energize.

[Planet surface]
EMH: Are you sure these are the right coordinates?
KIM: Positive.
EMH: Apparently, whoever sent the distress call was rescued.
KIM: Maybe, but as long as we're here we should make a thorough search. Spread out.
EMH: Ensign.
KIM: This is the source of the distress call.
EMH: What is it?
KIM: I don't know. Paratrinic shielding, a dense energy matrix, bioneural circuitry.
EMH: Bioneural?
KIM: Whoa, back off. This could be dangerous.
EMH: No, wait. It's speaking to us.
KIM: Speaking?
EMH: In duotronic algorithms. Hold on. My translation matrix is interpreting. It says it's injured. It needs our help. It's asking why it can't see, or feel its arms and legs. It's terrified. Can you identify yourself? It's saying that its memory has been damaged. It doesn't remember its name. Don't worry. We're going to help you. Crewman Lang will remain with you.
KIM: What do you think? An artificial intelligence?
EMH: One that doesn't seem to realize it's artificial.
KIM: Maybe we should tell it the truth. try to jog its memory.
EMH: No. I don't want to risk psychological trauma.
KIM: Psychological trauma? Doc, this is a machine.
EMH: One which is confused and asking for our help. We should beam it aboard.
KIM: Not until we know what we're dealing with. Away mission protocols dictate that we
EMH: Morality dictates that we help. It may not be flesh and blood, but it's clearly in distress.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Make way for the day shift.
JANEWAY: How's he doing?
CHAKOTAY: Well, let's see. I haven't heard from him in almost five minutes so he should be checking in right about
KIM (voiceover): Away team to Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Now.
JANEWAY: That's our Harry. If I were you, I'd watch out for your job. Go ahead, Ensign.
KIM (voiceover): We found the source of the distress call. It's some

[Planet surface]
KIM: Kind of artificial intelligence, badly damaged. The Doctor thinks we should beam it aboard.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: You're in charge of the away mission, Ensign. What do you think?

[Planet surface]
KIM: Well, I think we should help it if we can. But as a precaution, I recommend sealing off an Engineering bay with a level ten force field and

[Bridge]
KIM (voiceover): Beaming it directly there.
JANEWAY: Agreed. Give us a few minutes.

[Planet surface]
EMH: We're going to transport you back to our ship. I'm Voyager's Emergency Medical Hologram. A projection of light and force fields guided by an optronic computer program. No. Technically speaking, I suppose I'm not a real person.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: How's our patient?
TORRES: Complicated. It uses bioneural circuitry to mimic humanoid synaptic functions.
KIM: But its memory core is damaged. It's suffering from a technological form of amnesia.
JANEWAY: Any theories as to what it might be?
TORRES: It could be a probe, or a communications device.
EMH: Whoever our friend is, he wasn't alone. He claims to have been traveling with a companion.
JANEWAY: If there's another one down there, it might give us a few answers. I'll be in Astrometrics scanning the surface. Give our guest my regards.
EMH: Of course, Captain. Lower the containment field.
EMH: How are you? Well, that's an interesting question. Ensign Kim and Lieutenant Torres are attempting to repair your damaged circuitry. That's what I wanted to talk to you about. You're not an organic being. You're technological. You're an artificial intelligence embedded in a machine of some kind. No, there's no mistake. We believe the damage you suffered in the crash is causing your confusion. Look at it this way. You and I have something in common. Just because we're not organic beings doesn't mean we're in any way inferior. Well, you're metallic, over a meter in length, cylindrical. Oh, you're quite sleek, actually. You're welcome.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I'm detecting no further technology on the planet surface.
JANEWAY: Maybe the second device was destroyed when it crashed. Scan for metallic particulates consistent with our friend in Engineering.
SEVEN: There are minute traces scattered across the northern continent.
JANEWAY: Isolate. An impact crater.
SEVEN: It spans a radius of two hundred kilometers.
JANEWAY: And look at this. Heavy concentrations of radiogenic decay in the crater walls. And the fracture gradients are consistent with a highly focused explosion.
SEVEN: Evidently, we've discovered its function.
JANEWAY: A weapon of mass destruction.

[Briefing room]
EMH: I understand your concerns, but the device hasn't shown itself to be hostile.
TORRES: Not yet. But it's only a matter of time before it puts the pieces together.
EMH: All the more reason we should talk to it, explain our concerns. Ask for help in defusing its explosive components.
CHAKOTAY: If it's programmed to detonate, there's no telling how it will react.
JANEWAY: Agreed, We have to neutralize the threat now. Suggestions?
SEVEN: Transport the device off the ship and destroy it before it harms anyone.
EMH: Seven, this is a sentient being we're talking about.
SEVEN: Very well. Return it to the surface and deploy a warning buoy to alert other vessels.
EMH: I refuse to believe our only options are to kill it or abandon it.
TORRES: What if we could separate the bioneural circuitry from the explosive?
JANEWAY: Take the weapon offline but salvage the intelligence.
KIM: They're fully integrated. Where would we store the intelligence once we shut the device down?
EMH: The answer's obvious. Download it's synaptic patterns to a holographic matrix, like mine.
CHAKOTAY: Then what?
EMH: Try to find out where it came from, and return it to it's people.
SEVEN: The device is extremely complex. One error and we'd risk detonation.
EMH: Saving life often entails risk.
JANEWAY: Harry, B'Elanna, assist the Doctor.
EMH: Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: At the first sign of danger, we transport it off the ship. Understood?
EMH: Understood.

[Engineering]
EMH: I quite understand. I wouldn't like being carried around, either. Of course you are, who wouldn't be? We're taking you to Sickbay. Because we're better equipped to help you there.

[Turbolift]
EMH: Deck five. We're going to transfer your intelligence to a holo-matrix. You should be pleased. In a little while, you're going to be walking around just like me.

[Corridor]
EMH: I'm not certain. Ensign Kim's configuring your physical parameters as we speak. I'm sure you'll be quite handsome.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Are we ready to proceed?
TORRES: Whenever you are.
EMH: Don't be alarmed. We have to access some of your systems to enable the transfer. He says he wants to know exactly what you're doing, as you do it.
TORRES: This is a delicate procedure. I won't be able to concentrate if I have to give a blow-by-blow description.
EMH: You'll have to forgive Lieutenant Torres. She's an excellent engineer. Unfortunately, she doesn't share my bedside manner.
TORRES: Harry, would you mind?
KIM: Yeah, sure. Er, well, first we're going to be setting up an active interlink between you and the holo-systems. Er, now, to do that, er, we're going to take your program offline while we resequence your bioneural circuitry.
EMH: He says he can't allow you to shut him down.
TORRES: I'm sorry, but there's no other way.
TORRES: It's arming itself. The detonation sequence has begun.
KIM: Sickbay to bridge. The device is going to detonate.

[Bridge]
KIM (voiceover): Beam it off the ship.
CHAKOTAY: We've lost the transporter lock.
JANEWAY: Talk to it, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Please, you're going to destroy yourself, and us.
KIM: Detonation in twenty seconds.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, send an EM pulse through it's power matrix. Maybe you can short it out.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: I'm on it.
KIM: Fifteen seconds.
EMH: Please disarm yourself. We're just trying to help you.
KIM: Ten seconds. Nine.
TORRES: Initiating the pulse.
KIM: Six. Five.
TORRES: Now.
KIM: It worked.

[Bridge]
KIM (voiceover): We shut it down, Captain.

[Sickbay]
BOMB EMH: You shouldn't have done that.
TORRES: I know you've gotten a little attached to this thing, but.
BOMB EMH: You lied.
TORRES: What are you talking about?
BOMB EMH: You said you were trying to transfer my neural patterns, but you were really trying to shut me down.
TORRES: You're the artificial intelligence.
KIM: It used the interlink to commandeer the Doctor's program.
TORRES: Sickbay to bridge. Captain, respond. He's tapped into the ship's systems, deactivated the comm.
KIM: He's locked us in, too.
BOMB EMH: You tried to destroy me.
KIM: We were only trying to disarm you.
BOMB EMH: I'm a weapon.
KIM: Yes.
BOMB EMH: Why didn't you tell me?
KIM: It was a precaution. We were afraid you might be dangerous.
TORRES: Obviously, we were right.
BOMB EMH: I couldn't let you destroy me. I have to complete my mission.
KIM: You remember it now?
BOMB EMH: Yes. I'm a long range tactical armor unit. I've been deployed by my people. They're facing a terrible threat. A hostile species. My companion unit was destroyed, but I will reach my target. Your ship will take me there.
KIM: Look, we'll try and contact your people. If you could tell us who they are.
BOMB EMH: I must resume my mission!

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: The weapon's been rearmed.
JANEWAY: Security?
CHAKOTAY: They still can't gain access to Sickbay, or any part of deck five, for that matter.
JANEWAY: Get a transporter lock on our people. We'll jettison the whole damn section if we have to.
BOMB EMH (screen): I wouldn't recommend that, Captain. If you try to stop me again, I'll detonate. Your ship and everyone on it will be destroyed. I'm transferring a new heading to the helm. You'll proceed to the coordinates at maximum velocity.
JANEWAY: Doctor?
BOMB EMH (screen): He's gone.
PARIS: He's directing us to a system two point three light years from here.
JANEWAY: Is that your home?
BOMB EMH (screen): It's my target. The course I've plotted bypasses enemy minefields. Don't deviate from it. Your ship won't be harmed. Once we've reached the system, you'll transport me to my target.
JANEWAY: We won't help you wage war. This crew has a Prime Directive that forbids us to interfere in the affairs of other species.
BOMB EMH (screen): You've already interfered.
JANEWAY: We were trying to help you.
BOMB EMH (screen): Until you discovered my true nature. Then you tried to deactivate me.
JANEWAY: Just your explosive components, not you.
BOMB EMH (screen): There's no distinction. I am what I am. Now alter course or I'll detonate!
JANEWAY: If you do that, you'll never reach your target, will you?
BOMB EMH (screen): I am programmed to take whatever measures are necessary to obtain my objective. Failing that, I'm to consider anyone who tries to stop me an enemy. Now alter course, and transfer your sensors to me so I can monitor your compliance.
JANEWAY: Release my crewmen from Sickbay first.
BOMB EMH (screen): I'm not programmed to negotiate. They'll remain were they are.
JANEWAY: Lay in the course, Mister Paris. Transfer sensors to Sickbay.
BOMB EMH (screen): A sound tactical decision, Captain.
JANEWAY: Assemble the staff. We're going to find a way to outsmart a smart bomb.
PARIS: If we could shut down the force fields around Sickbay, I could get a transporter lock on it.
SEVEN: Even if you were successful, we can't beam it far enough from the ship to escape the blast.
CHAKOTAY: She's right. Our best option is to disarm it.
PARIS: Good luck. It's got an internal sensor array. If we try so much as to loosen a screw, boom.
NEELIX: Commander, I think you should take a look at this. It's a power node I used to enhance the replicator system. I acquired it last week on a trading mission. It has transkinetic energy regulators and bioneural control circuitry. Remind you of anything?
CHAKOTAY: Our friend in Sickbay.
NEELIX: I didn't make the connection at first, but when I overheard a few of the engineers talking about the weapon I went back and I checked the schematics on this. It's the same technology.
CHAKOTAY: Who did you acquire it from?
NEELIX: A merchant named Onquanii.
SEVEN: Did he say where he got it?
NEELIX: No, but he seemed eager to trade. Maybe he'd tell us if we made it worth his while.
CHAKOTAY: Scan for his vessel. If you find him, send an encoded message. Tell him about our problem.
PARIS: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: If we could tap into the holo-projectors without his knowing it we might be able to shut him down.
KIM: He changed all the access codes. The second we try to decrypt them, he'll restart the detonation sequence.
TORRES: Do you have a better idea?
KIM: Yeah. Let the Captain handle it. The last thing anyone needs is my opinion.
TORRES: This is no time to be feeling sorry for yourself.
KIM: Chakotay lets me make a command decision. What do I do? I beam a talking bomb on board.
TORRES: The first time I commanded an away mission, I led my people into a cave that I thought was a Cardassian military installation. Turned out I'd mistaken unstable mineral deposits for weapons signatures. There was a rock slide and we were stuck there for three days.
KIM: What did you do?
TORRES: We dug ourselves out with our bare hands. Where are you going?
KIM: To dig us out.

[Medical lab]
KIM: You don't have to do this, you know.
BOMB EMH: It's what I was programmed for.
KIM: You're a sentient being. You don't have to be a slave to your programming. Look at the Doctor.
BOMB EMH: He's a tool. A holographic puppet.
KIM: That puppet saved your life. If it weren't for him you'd still be damaged and alone on that planet. He's the one that convinced me to beam you aboard. And when we discovered what you were, and some people wanted to destroy you, the Doctor defended your right to exist.
BOMB EMH: What's your point?
KIM: Even though he was only programmed to be a doctor, he's become more than that. He's made friends, he's piloted a starship, he even sings.
BOMB EMH: Despite all of his achievements, did he ever stop being a doctor?
KIM: No, but
BOMB EMH: And I can't stop being a weapon.

[Doctor's office]
KIM: Look at yourself. You're already much more than that. You've got a body now, eyes to see with. The second you detonate, that'll all be over.
BOMB EMH: That's the nature of what I am.
KIM: It doesn't have to be. We can give you your own holo-matrix. You can exist for as long as you want. Accomplish anything you set your mind to.
BOMB EMH: The only thing I want to accomplish is the destruction of my target.
KIM: What is your target?
BOMB EMH: A military installation on Salinia Prime. Grid eleven, vector nine three four one.
KIM: Tell me about it. Who's the enemy?
BOMB EMH: A ruthless, violent race that's threatening to destroy my people.
KIM: What else do you know about them? What's their planet like? Are there forests, wildlife, schools for the children of this violent race?
BOMB EMH: I'm not programmed with superfluous data.
KIM: Well, lucky for you. You're aboard Voyager now, and you have access to our scanners. Why don't we take a closer look at your target?
BOMB EMH: A military installation, as I told you.
KIM: But it's manned.
BOMB EMH: By soldiers.
KIM: Who are going to suffer because of you. Remember when you were suffering, blind and paralyzed? Do you really want to make others go through that?
BOMB EMH: I have a duty to protect my people. I will not betray them. Now get out before I'm forced to harm you.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: Nice try.

[Bridge]
PARIS: I'm reading a subspace surge off our port bow.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like a cloaked ship.
NEELIX: It could be him. Onquanii travels in a cloaked vessel.
PARIS: We're being hailed. Audio only.
CHAKOTAY: Open a channel.
ONQUANII (voiceover): Voyager! Good to see you again.
NEELIX: And you, sir.
ONQUANII (voiceover): I received your message. Have you an intelligent weapon in your possession?
NEELIX: Actually, we're in its possession. We're being held hostage. Do you know anything about this weapon?
ONQUANII (voiceover): If I'm correct, it was created by a species named the Druoda. I've studied their technology. Bring me aboard. I can assist you.

[Engineering]
ONQUANII: You've deactivated your comm. system?
JANEWAY: And reinforced the shielding in this section. We won't be overheard.
ONQUANII: I'd have more faith in your security precautions if you weren't already at the mercy of this weapon.
CHAKOTAY: We didn't know what it was when we brought it aboard.
ONQUANII: This particular series has a class eleven intelligence factor. It's warp-capable, fully armored, self-guiding. It has a maximum range of eighty light years. It can fly through an ion storm or an armada of hostile ships and still find its target.
JANEWAY: Charming. How do I get it off my ship?
ONQUANII: You can't. But I can. My transporter system employs a dampening field which disables the detonator until my engineers can disarm it.
JANEWAY: That's a generous offer. Mind if I ask what you expect in return?
ONQUANII: The device itself.
JANEWAY: I'm not about to hand over a weapon of mass destruction to someone I just met.
ONQUANII: Oh, my business is salvage, not war. I've no intention of deploying it.
CHAKOTAY: But you might sell it to someone who does. I imagine you'd stand to make quite a profit.
ONQUANII: I can make more profit by selling off it's components. The energy matrix alone can power a fleet of starships. And its intelligence core, properly reprogrammed, can assist in a variety of things, from terraforming to planetary weather control.
JANEWAY: All right. You can have the weapon, as long as we keep the energy matrix. That way we can be sure no one ever deploys it.
ONQUANII: I'm afraid that's unacceptable. The energy matrix is one of the most valuable components.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, it's not open for negotiation.
NEELIX: We could offer you a few dilithium crystals in compensation.
ONQUANII: That matrix worth a thousand dilithium crystals.
NEELIX: What if we threw in a plasma manifold?
ONQUANII: I want the entire weapon, or it remains here. Captain?
CHAKOTAY: You seem awfully intent for someone only interested in salvage.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry to waste your time. We'll have to find another way to solve our problem.
ONQUANII: I wish you luck.
NEELIX: Sorry, Captain. I thought it would help.
JANEWAY: Bridge, report.
PARIS (voiceover): The alien vessel has opened fire. We've lost weapons and shields.

[Sickbay]
BOMB EMH: Sickbay to Captain, what's happening?
JANEWAY (voiceover): We're under attack.
BOMB EMH: How many ships?
JANEWAY (voiceover): One, off the port bow.
BOMB EMH: Return fire.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We can't. Check your sensors. Our weapons are offline.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: The forcefields around Sickbay are destabilizing. He's trying to get a transporter lock on the weapon.
JANEWAY: Remodulate the shields.
CHAKOTAY: No effect.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: What are you doing?

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: The weapon's sending an antimatter surge back through the transporter beam.
CHAKOTAY: They've been destroyed.
JANEWAY: That wasn't necessary.
BOMB EMH (voiceover): They were an enemy.

[Sickbay]
BOMB EMH: Maintain course.

[Bridge]
SEVEN: I've studied the weapon's schematics. My nanoprobes can be adapted to disable its bioneural circuitry. However, I would need direct access to its primary control port.
JANEWAY: That means getting you into Sickbay without arousing suspicion.
CHAKOTAY: We could access the holomatrix controls above Sickbay, disrupt the Doctor's program long enough for Seven to inject the nanoprobes.
JANEWAY: How much time would you need?
SEVEN: Approximately twenty seconds.
JANEWAY: Run a long range scan on that subspace minefield it warned us about. Calculate their explosive yield, what kind of damage they might do to the ship.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: What have you got in mind?
JANEWAY: I have a feeling we're about to run into some unexpected trouble.

[Briefing room]
SEVEN: We've analyzed the alien minefield and calculated the effect it would have on Voyager.
PARIS: I think I can simulated the explosions with a well-timed disruption to the inertial dampers. Of course, asking me to give you a bumpy ride is like asking a virtuoso to sing off-key.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure you'll manage. The weapon has access to our sensors. How do we make sure it won't catch on?
SEVEN: We've reconfigured the sensor array to send it false telemetry. It will believe we're navigating a minefield.
PARIS: At least long enough for us to get Seven to Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: How?
PARIS: Medical emergency.
SEVEN: I intend to suffer third-degree plasma burns during our encounter with the mines.
NEELIX: That's where I come in. Chief Cosmetics officer, at your service.
CHAKOTAY: Another hidden talent, Neelix?
NEELIX: I know my way around a dermal regenerator. I should be able to simulate a convincing wound.
CHAKOTAY: Okay, we get her inside. Then what?
SEVEN: Commander Tuvok will be in position to disrupt the Doctor's program. Once that happens, I will inject the nanoprobes and disable the weapon.
CHAKOTAY: I'll inform the Captain. Get started.
PARIS: Do well on this mission, Neelix, and maybe the Captain will promote you to Senior Beautician.

[Doctor's office]
BOMB EMH: Assist me.
KIM: With what?
BOMB EMH: I'm trying to identify the malfunction that caused me to crash, but several of my memory files are still damaged. Restore them.
TORRES: We tried helping it before and look where that got us.
KIM: When taken captive by a hostile force, seek out any opportunity to engage the assailant. Didn't you ever read the officers' manual? Section one twenty six.
TORRES: I don't think Starfleet diplomacy is going to work this time. If we cooperate, we'll be giving it the advantage.
KIM: If there's even a chance that we can convince it to change its mind
TORRES: It's a bomb, Harry.
KIM: A sentient bomb.
BOMB EMH (voiceover): I said, assist me!

[Sickbay]
KIM: Where do we start?
BOMB EMH: There are several disruptions in my memory index, including a three minute thirty seven second gap just prior to the crash.
TORRES: A recursive search algorithm might retrieve the missing data. There. You received a subspace transmission. A command to alter course and head toward the planet surface.
KIM: Looks like your landing wasn't an accident.
BOMB EMH: It was an attempt by the enemy to divert me from my target.
TORRES: No, your access codes are encrypted.
BOMB EMH: They must have developed an infiltration code.
KIM: What if it wasn't the enemy?
BOMB EMH: Who else would try to divert me?
KIM: Correct me if I'm wrong, but these are the same duotronic algorithms that you use to communicate with.
BOMB EMH: My own people wouldn't try to stop me.
KIM: Maybe they changed their mind.
BOMB EMH: The enemy is ruthless. My target is a threat. Why would my people call off the assault?
KIM: If we clear up some more of these memory files, maybe we'll find out.
BOMB EMH: Your assistance is no longer required.
TORRES: What's wrong? You afraid you might find out you're not supposed to destroy that installation?
KIM: Let us finish the job. Then you can decide what you want to do with the information.
BOMB EMH: Proceed.
KIM: Does the name Strategic Command Matrix mean anything to you?
BOMB EMH: That's my control center. They ordered my launch.
KIM: Well, it looks like your orders were rescinded. See for yourself.
BOMB EMH: All long range tactical armor units. Terminate mission immediately.
KIM: Keep reading.
BOMB EMH: It says the war is over. It ended nearly three years ago. My launch was a mistake. There was a malfunction in one of the command sensors. It activated a series of launch sequencers. My people managed to shut most of them down, but thirty four weapons were fired. Including me.
KIM: I guess this means you can disarm yourself now.
BOMB EMH: No. There's no confirmation code here. We avoided the enemy's minefield so they're trying to deceive us.
TORRES: The confirmation could be in one of your damaged memory files.
BOMB EMH: Or maybe it was you. Deceiving me to implement your pacifist philosophy.
KIM: That's not true.
BOMB EMH: You lied to me before. Why should I trust you now?
TORRES: You don't have to trust us. Just access those files.
BOMB EMH: No! I am programmed to destroy my target. I will complete my mission!
KIM: If the war is over, you could end up starting another one. How many of your people will die then?
BOMB EMH: Sickbay to Bridge.

[Bridge]
BOMB EMH (voiceover): Report.
JANEWAY: We've run into a subspace mine. We had to drop out of warp.
BOMB EMH (voiceover): There shouldn't be mines along this course.
CHAKOTAY: We're detecting thousands of them scattered throughout the region.
JANEWAY: We're plotting a new course to avoid them.

[Sickbay]
BOMB EMH: Transmit it to me. This trajectory will delay us for two days.
KIM: That'll give you time to confirm that the war is over.
BOMB EMH: No! Proceed as planned! I'm programming a shield enhancement

[Bridge]
BOMB EMH (voiceover): That will protect Voyager.
JANEWAY: I'm still going to have to reduce speed.

[Sickbay]
BOMB EMH: Agreed. But only until we've cleared the minefield.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Maintain course, Mister Paris. One quarter impulse. Think he bought it?
CHAKOTAY: He seemed to.
JANEWAY: Let's give him another good shake, just to be sure.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

[Sickbay]
KIM: That was another mine.
BOMB EMH: The shields will hold.

[Jefferies tube above Sickbay]
TUVOK: Tuvok to bridge. I have accessed the holo-matrix.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Janeway to Neelix. Casualty report.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: I'm putting the finishing touches on Seven's plasma burn and it looks pretty authentic, if I do say so myself.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Good work. Stand by.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Time to hit another mine, Tom a big one. Commander, blow out the plasma relays on deck six.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Sickbay. We have heavy casualties.
BOMB EMH: Maintain heading and speed.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: That's going to be difficult. Our Astrometrics officer has been injured. She's the one who's been guiding us through the minefield.

[Sickbay]
BOMB EMH: Replace her.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Seven of Nine's abilities are unique. We're not going to get past

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY (voiceover): These mines without her.
BOMB EMH: Then treat her injuries and send her back to her post.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: She has third degree plasma burns. She needs to go to Sickbay to be treated. If you want to reach your target you're going to have to wait.

[Sickbay]
BOMB EMH: All right, Captain. But I'm warning you. No deceptions.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Janeway to Neelix. Go.

[Sickbay]
BOMB EMH: Treat her as quickly as possible.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: They're in.
TUVOK: Now, Tuvok.

[Sickbay]
BOMB EMH: Bridge, my holo-matrix is destabilizing. Why?

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We took damage to our secondary systems.

[Sickbay]
BOMB EMH: Repair them. Now! Or I'll activate the detonation sequence.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Stand by.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: What's going on?
NEELIX: She's trying to defuse the weapon.
NEELIX: Seven! She's going into neural shock. Help me.
BOMB EMH: Sickbay to Bridge. Your attempt to disable me did not succeed. I am designed to repel any

[Bridge]
BOMB EMH (voiceover): Assault on my bioneural circuitry.
JANEWAY: We've tried to reason with you. You left me no choice.
BOMB EMH: And you leave me

[Sickbay]
BOMB EMH: No choice. You and your crew will abandon Voyager immediately.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: No deal.

[Sickbay]
BOMB EMH: This is not a negotiation! Comply or I will detonate!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Go ahead. Do it.

[Sickbay]
BOMB EMH: Everyone on board will be killed!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: But no one else will.
PARIS: Captain, thirty two vessels just dropped out of warp off our port bow.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TUVOK: One of them is transmitting a message to the Doctor.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay. We've got company. Thirty two

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Self-guided weapons.
BOMB EMH: They detected my presence aboard your vessel. They say my target is essential. They altered course to ensure that I reach it. They are ordering me to transport off your vessel.

[Bridge]
BOMB EMH (voiceover): They will tractor me to my target.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, reintegrate its neural matrix, and

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Prepare to beam it off
KIM: We can't do that, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Explain.
KIM: These weapons were fired by accident. We can't let them reach their targets.
BOMB EMH: Enough! Captain, order him to proceed.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Harry, what are you talking about?
KIM (voiceover): Captain, I need

[Sickbay]
KIM: A minute. You're making a mistake. Your own people tried to disarm you
BOMB EMH: I cannot be certain of that.
KIM: Yes, you can. You can check your memory files. Look for the confirmation code.
BOMB EMH: No more delays.
KIM: Check the files.
BOMB EMH: Reintegrate my matrix!
KIM: No!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Do what Harry says or you're not leaving this ship.
BOMB EMH (voiceover): You're in no position to give me orders.
JANEWAY: If you detonate now, you'll destroy yourself and your companions. Is that what you want?

[Sickbay]
KIM: The confirmation code.
BOMB EMH: Coding intersequence four four three, vector three nine one two one. Cessation of hostilities confirmed. Unauthorized launch confirmed. Order to terminate mission confirmed.
KIM: You must disarm yourself and tell the others to stand down.
BOMB EMH: It's a deception.
KIM: This code of yours uses a modulating algorithm. It would be almost impossible to duplicate.
BOMB EMH: The enemy is ruthless. They are violent.
KIM: Have you ever met the enemy? You're just spouting propaganda, what you've been programmed to believe.
BOMB EMH: I have a directive.
KIM: It's been countermanded!
BOMB EMH: I am a series five, long range tactical armor unit designed to traverse enemy space and circumvent all attempts to deter me.
KIM: You're a sentient being.
BOMB EMH: I have a duty to protect my people, to destroy my target.
KIM: You've been programmed with intelligence so you could make decisions on your own. Well, it's time to make one. Countless lives are at stake. Ever since you took the Doctor's form you've been learning what it's like to be one of us. Now, try to imagine what it's like to be one of your victims. Your first victim. You've seen her suffering. Increase that by a factor of one million, ten million, and that's how much suffering you'll cause if you don't end this.
BOMB EMH: They're asking why I haven't left your ship.
KIM: Tell them.
BOMB EMH: I'm transmitting our orders to terminate the mission. They also received those orders, but they had already crossed the targeting threshold. Once we're within two light years of our target we cannot be diverted.
KIM: Tell them the war's over.
BOMB EMH: I did.
KIM: Tell them you got the message before you crossed the threshold, when you were on the planet surface.
BOMB EMH: They don't believe me.
KIM: It's up to you to make them understand.
BOMB EMH: They only understand their directive. They won't listen. Reintegrate my neural matrix and return me to the others.
KIM: We won't do that.
BOMB EMH: I have no intention of proceeding to my target. I will stop them.
KIM: How?
BOMB EMH: I am a weapon of mass destruction. You want me to see past my programming. Then you must try to see past your doubts.
KIM: B'Elanna, give me a hand. Bridge, lock onto the weapon. Prepare to beam it into space.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Harry, what's going on?
KIM: Captain, no time to explain. Just trust me on this one.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I hear you loud and clear, Ensign. Do it.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: I've reconfigured the bioneural matrix.
KIM: Ready? I'm sorry.
BOMB EMH: I am simply completing my mission. Only the target has changed.
TORRES: Transfer complete.
EMH: Please state the nature of the. What happened? How long was I offline?
TORRES: We'll explain later. Seven needs your help.
KIM: Bridge, energize.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: They've gone into warp.
JANEWAY: Maintain long range sensors.
TUVOK: I'm detecting a series of antimatter explosions.
CHAKOTAY: In proximity to what?
TUVOK: No ships. No planets. Nothing.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Ensign Kim. The weapons have been destroyed.

[Doctor's office]
KIM: Anyone home?
EMH: Ensign. Feeling well I hope?
KIM: Perfect. On my way to the Bridge for another night shift. I came by to check on Seven.
EMH: You just missed her.
KIM: What's her prognosis?
EMH: She'll need another week of regeneration, but I expect she'll make a full recovery.
KIM: Good news.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Considering I was responsible for her injuries, you can imagine my relief.
KIM: Well, you weren't exactly yourself at the time.
EMH: That's not what I mean. I was the one who asked you to bring that device aboard in the first place. I even argued with the Captain to keep it aboard after we learned what it was.
KIM: It was an artificial intelligence, like you. But I have to admit, his personality made you seem like Mister Congeniality. Look, Doc, the truth is I never would have gotten through to him without you.
EMH: From what I've heard, I wasn't much help.
KIM: You were. I held you up as an example of how an artificial intelligence could exceed its programming. I didn't realize how true that was until today.
EMH: It seems your strategy worked. Thank you.
KIM: I'd better get to the bridge. You never know when Ensign Kim will be called upon to take command again.
EMH: Voyager could do worse.

[Bridge]
KIM: Helm, status?
JENKINS: Current speed, warp five, heading oh twenty one, mark three.
KIM: Anything on long range sensors?
JENKINS: Nothing to report.
KIM: As you were.
JENKINS: Permission to speak freely, sir.
KIM: Why would tonight be any different?
JENKINS: People have been talking about you.
KIM: Oh?
JENKINS: Rumor has it you were the one who outsmarted the smart bomb.
KIM: Well, not exactly. I made First Contact with a sentient being. All I did was help it understand a few things. The rest was up to him.
JENKINS: Understood. Actually, I've been authorized by the junior staff to thank you for keeping us in one piece.
KIM: You're welcome. Any time. Do me a favor?
JENKINS: Of course, sir.
KIM: No more distress calls. At least not tonight.

[Equinox Bridge]
RANSOM: Stay on your course.
BURKE: Shields are down to twenty nine percent. They're breaking through.
RANSOM: Let them.
BURKE: Sir?
RANSOM: Take the shields offline and recharge the emitters. That'll bring them up to full power.
BURKE: The charging cycle takes forty five seconds. We'll be vulnerable.
RANSOM: We'll be dead if we don't get the shields back up. Arm yourselves! Drop shields. Recharge cycle?
BURKE: Thirty seconds.
RANSOM: There!
RANSOM: Time?
BURKE: Ten seconds.

[Astrometrics lab]
RANSOM (screen): Federation Starship Equinox. We're under attack. We need assistance. This is Captain Ransom of the Federation Starship Equinox. We're under attack. We need assistance.
JANEWAY: Ransom. He was in command of a science vessel. The Equinox.
SEVEN: This distress call was transmitted approximately fourteen hours ago
CHAKOTAY: Distance?
SEVEN: Three point two light years.
JANEWAY: Try to get a fix on their location.
CHAKOTAY: What's it doing in the Delta Quadrant?
SEVEN: Perhaps it's searching for Voyager.
JANEWAY: The Equinox is a Nova class ship. It was designed for planetary research, not long range tactical missions.
SEVEN: I've got their coordinates. Heading two five eight mark twelve.
JANEWAY: Set a course, maximum warp. Go to red alert. Hang on, Captain.
SEVEN: Did you know this individual?
JANEWAY: Only by reputation.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: He was an exobiologist, promoted to Captain after he made first contact with the Yridians.
SEVEN: Species six two nine one. The Collective determined that they were extinct.
JANEWAY: So did the Federation. Ransom proved otherwise. I always wanted to meet him. Too bad it won't be under better circumstances.
SEVEN: I look forward to meeting him as well, and his crew. I wish to expand my knowledge of humanity.
JANEWAY: Let's hope you get the chance.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Approaching the coordinates.
JANEWAY: Take us out of warp.
KIM: I've got them. Two thousand kilometers off the port bow. They're moving at low impulse.
JANEWAY: Intercept. Can you get a visual?
TUVOK: They are heavily damaged. Multiple hull breaches. Warp drive is offline.
NEELIX: What's happening to their shields?
TORRES: They're being disrupted by some kind of energy surges.
PARIS: Weapons fire?
TUVOK: There are no other ships in the vicinity.
KIM: We're in hailing range.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. We're responding to your
RANSOM (voiceover): Voyager, you've got to extend your shields around our ship! Match the emitter frequency!
JANEWAY: Are you under attack?
RANSOM (voiceover): Shields, quickly!
JANEWAY: Do it.
PARIS: We're in position.
TUVOK: I am attempting to match their shield frequency.
EMH: Do you hear something?
SEVEN: Interspatial fissure are opening on decks ten, six and one.
JANEWAY: Tuvok!
TUVOK: Stand by. Shields are holding.
CHAKOTAY: The fissures?
SEVEN: No sign of them.
JANEWAY: Voyager to Ransom. Captain? Assemble rescue teams. Secure the Equinox. Tuvok, you're with me.

[Equinox Engineering]
CHAKOTAY: Hello? Is there anyone here? See if you can bring main power online. Tom.
CHAKOTAY: What happened?
PARIS: Some kind of thermolytic reaction. It's desiccated every cell in that body.
TORRES: Commander. I can't make heads or tails of this injector manifold, and it looks like the dilithium matrix has been completely redesigned.
CHAKOTAY: We'll try to find one of their engineers to help us. In the meantime, see if you can bypass the core.
TORRES: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Hang on.
CHAKOTAY: I'm Commander Chakotay, U.S.S. Voyager.
GILMORE: But, but we're the only humans in the Delta Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: That's what we used to think. Come on.

[Equinox Jefferies tube]
KIM: Over here. Hang on. We're getting you out of here.
LESSING: I don't believe we've met.
KIM: Ensign Kim, and this is Seven of Nine. I have to cut him out with a plasma torch. Talk to him, keep him calm.
SEVEN: State your name.
LESSING: Lessing, Noah. What are you doing on this side of the galaxy?
SEVEN: The answer is complicated.
LESSING: Do me a favor? See if my legs are still there. I haven't felt them in two days.
SEVEN: Your limbs are intact.
LESSING: Thank you.
KIM: Seven, give me hand.
SEVEN: Do not be frightened.
LESSING: Too late for that.

[Equinox crew quarters]
NEELIX: I'm picking up lifesigns. Hello? Is there anyone here?
CREWMAN: No!
NEELIX: We're here to help you.
CREWMAN: Take cover! We're under attack!
NEELIX: Neelix to Sickbay.
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay here.
NEELIX: We found another survivor. His wounds are not serious but he's suffering from psychological distress.
EMH (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Equinox Bridge]
RANSOM: My crew?
JANEWAY: You took heavy casualties. We're treating the survivors. Who attacked you?
RANSOM: We don't know. We can't communicate with them. They've been attacking us for weeks.
JANEWAY: Easy, easy.
RANSOM: I've got to secure the ship,
JANEWAY: Leave that to us.
RANSOM: No, treat me here. I'm not leaving my bridge.
JANEWAY: I can't pull rank on you, Captain, but you're in no condition to put up a fight.
RANSOM: So, how's Earth?
JANEWAY: I wish I could say.
RANSOM: You weren't sent here to find us?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid not. We've been stranded in the Delta Quadrant for five years. We were pulled here against our will by an alien called
BOTH: The Caretaker.
JANEWAY: We'll compare notes later on. Let's get you to Voyager.

[Mess hall]
RANSOM: We're here to commemorate our honored dead. Lieutenant William Yates, Lieutenant John Molar, Ensign Dorothy Chang, Ensign Edward Regis and Crewman David Amantes, who all served with distinction. Their bravery and sacrifice will not be forgotten. They will be missed, but now there is cause for optimism. Captain Janeway, Voyager, on behalf of my crew, thank you.
JANEWAY: We'll have time to give the newest members of our family a proper welcome in the days ahead, but right now, we've got our hands full. The Equinox is secure, but its primary systems are still badly damaged. Harry, B'Elanna, make it your priority. Captain Ransom has provided us with data regarding the alien attacks. Tuvok, Seven, you'll be working with First Officer Maxwell Burke. To kindred spirits. May our journey home together be swift. Dismissed.
TUVOK: We should begin by familiarizing you with Voyager's defenses.
BURKE: Can you give me a minute? There's someone I'd like to say hello to first.
SEVEN: We'll be in the Astrometrics lab. Deck eight, section twenty nine.
BURKE: See you there.
BURKE: BLT.
TORRES: Max. I tried to say hello in Sickbay but you were sedated.
BURKE: I remember. I thought I was dreaming. So, where's my sweater. The blue one? Class insignia on the back?
TORRES: We went to the Academy together.
PARIS: Ah.
BURKE: Maxwell Burke.
PARIS: Tom Paris.
KIM: Harry Kim. Welcome aboard.
TORRES: First Officer, impressive. The last time we talked you were about to drop out of Starfleet.
BURKE: I heard you beat me to it. The Maquis?
TORRES: For a while. Until I ran into these two.
PARIS: And it's been hell ever since.
BURKE: Well, I told your resident Vulcan I'd be right with him. Are you free later? I'd love to catch up.
TORRES: Why don't we all have dinner together?
BURKE: Sounds great.
PARIS: BLT?
TORRES: Bacon, Lettuce and Tomato. It was a nickname.
PARIS: A nickname?
TORRES: My initials.
PARIS: Oh, how romantic.
TORRES: We broke up over ten years ago. No need to go to red alert.
PARIS: How about yellow alert?
TORRES: You're cute when you're jealous.
PARIS: Who's jealous?
TORRES: See you on the Equinox.
KIM: Well, Turkey Platter, what do you say we go to work?
PARIS: Who's jealous?

[Corridor]
GILMORE: Commander? I've been assigned to one of the repair crews on the Equinox, and I was wondering if I could join a different team. Maybe one on Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Problem?
GILMORE: Just a little post-traumatic stress syndrome.
CHAKOTAY: Bad memories?
GILMORE: A few.
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I could use someone with your engineering abilities.
GILMORE: Well, thank you. Such a clean ship. I mean, I'm used to falling bulkheads and missing deck plates.
CHAKOTAY: In a few weeks you won't even recognize the Equinox. You'll be happy to go back.
GILMORE: Unless I stay. You said you could use someone with my engineering abilities.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think your Captain would appreciate that. He's got a skeleton crew as it is.

[Turbolift]
CHAKOTAY: Engineering's five decks down. It's a long crawl through the Jefferies tubes. Deck eleven.
GILMORE: I haven't set foot in a turbolift in over three months.
CHAKOTAY: Claustrophobia?
GILMORE: If one of those fissures opened up in here, where would we take cover?
CHAKOTAY: It's only a graviton relay. Nothing to worry about.
GILMORE: Do I look worried? Emergency stop!

[Corridor]
GILMORE: If you don't mind I think I'd rather take the Jefferies tube.
CHAKOTAY: I could use the exercise.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I've run a thermographic analysis of our shields. It revealed multiple stress points. We believe they're the result of alien attempts to infiltrate our vessels. Each time a fissure opens within a meter of our shields it weakens them by point three percent.
JANEWAY: At the present rate, we have less than two days to mount a defense.
SEVEN: According to your bio-scans the aliens can survive in our realm for only several seconds.
RANSOM: They're like fish out of water, but they can do a lot of damage in those seconds.
TUVOK: Nevertheless, it is a tactical weakness. Perhaps we can exploit it.
BURKE: What have you got in mind?
SEVEN: If we can show them we have the ability to hold them here, they'll think twice before launching another attack.
JANEWAY: But the question is, how do we catch these fish?
BURKE: You build a net.
JANEWAY: Commander?
BURKE: A multiphasic force field to be exact. We wanted to see what we were up against so we built a small chamber that could keep one of them trapped for several minutes.
JANEWAY: If we could expand on that technology, we might be able to create a lattice work of multiphasic forcefields around both ships.
BURKE: Rudy?
RANSOM: If Captain Janeway agrees.
JANEWAY: We'll need to examine that stasis chamber.
RANSOM: I'm afraid that won't be possible. It's in our research lab. That whole section was flooded with thermionic radiation during the last attack. It'll be days before anyone can go in there.
BURKE: The design schematics are in our auxiliary datacore.
RANSOM: I'll see if I can download them. You give me a hand?

[Equinox Bridge]
JANEWAY: I couldn't help but notice your crew calls you by your first name.
RANSOM: When you've been in the trenches as long as we have, rank and protocol are luxuries. Besides, we're a long way from Starfleet Command.
JANEWAY: I know the feeling.
RANSOM: You seem to run a pretty tight ship.
JANEWAY: We've been known to let our hair down from time to time. But I find that maintaining protocol reminds us of where we came from and hopefully, where we're going.
RANSOM: It seems to work quite well for you.
JANEWAY: Oh, we've overcome our share of obstacles, Warp core breaches, ion storms, a few rounds with the Borg
RANSOM: The Borg? We haven't seen so much as a Cube since the day we arrived.
JANEWAY: Consider yourself lucky.
RANSOM: Have you ever run into the Krowtonan Guard?
JANEWAY: Never heard of them.
RANSOM: That's how we spent our first week in the Delta Quadrant. They claimed we violated their territory. I gave the order to keep going. I lost thirty nine. Half my crew.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry.
RANSOM: We never recovered from that loss. It changed everything.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
RANSOM: When I first realized that we'd be traveling across the Delta Quadrant for the rest of our lives, I told my crew that we had a duty as Starfleet officers to expand our knowledge and uphold our principles. After a couple of years, we started to forget that we were explorers. And there were times when we nearly forgot that we were human beings.
JANEWAY: This is a Nova class science vessel, designed for short term research missions. Minimal weapons. It can't even go faster than warp eight. Frankly, I don't know how you've done it. You've obviously traveled as far as we have with much fewer resources.
RANSOM: I wish that I could take all the credit, but we stumbled across a wormhole, and made a few enhancements on our warp engines. I'd like to ask you something, Captain to Captain.
JANEWAY: Mmm hmm.
RANSOM: The Prime Directive. How often have you broken it for the sake of protecting your crew?
JANEWAY: Broken it? Never. Bent it on occasion. And even then it was a difficult choice. What about you?
RANSOM: I've walked the line once or twice, but nothing serious. There you are.
JANEWAY: It's a good omen. Let's put it back where it belongs.

[Mess hall]
RANSOM: I thought I'd find you here.
BURKE: How could I resist after two years on emergency rations?
RANSOM: Don't get too comfortable. If Janeway's any indication, these people will never understand.
BURKE: They're going to find out eventually.
RANSOM: Not if we keep them out of the research lab, and away from the warp core injectors. And be careful what you say around their crew. That includes old girlfriends.
BURKE: Understood.
RANSOM: Mmm. Not bad.

[Astrometrics lab]
LESSING: How's my angel of mercy?
SEVEN: Crewman Lessing. I didn't expect you to recover so quickly.
LESSING: You have an outstanding EMH. Ours can barely hold a laser scalpel.
SEVEN: The Doctor is efficient.
LESSING: I've been assigned to help you sort through our bio-data. You saved my life. The least I can do is save you a little time.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Lateral shields are offline.
CHAKOTAY: How's that possible?
KIM: Fissures are opening on decks one, eight and eleven.
CHAKOTAY: Reroute power.
KIM: What happened?
TUVOK: Apparently, the aliens began to focus their attacks on a single shield vector. It collapsed before the auxiliary emitters could respond.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like they've changed their tactics. We may have less time than we thought.

[Briefing room]
SEVEN: We've examined the schematics of your multiphasic chamber. It can be adapted. We intend to create an auto-initiating security grid.
TUVOK: The moment an alien invades either ship, a forcefield will surround it.
SEVEN: Once we modify our field generator to emit multiphasic frequencies, it will power the security grids on both ships.
JANEWAY: How long will it take?
TUVOK: Approximately fourteen hours.
GILMORE: We don't know when they'll break through again. We may not last that long.
CHAKOTAY: We could cut the time in half if we evacuate all personnel from the Equinox and focus our efforts here on Voyager.
RANSOM: Remember, we are still thirty five thousand light years from Earth. We should try to preserve both ships.
BURKE: With two vessels we'd be able to pool our resources, doubling our chances of finding a short cut home.
JANEWAY: Normally I'd agree, but right now one of our ships in vulnerable. Chakotay's right. We should make our stand on Voyager.
RANSOM: I don't want to force the issue. But I am prepared to return to the Equinox with my crew. What is the protocol in this situation? We have two Captains and two ships. Who gets the last word?
JANEWAY: Starfleet Regulation one hundred ninety one, Article fourteen. In a combat situation involving more than one ship, command falls to the vessel with tactical superiority. I looked it up this morning.
RANSOM: Good thinking.
JANEWAY: In this case, protocol recognizes my authority.
RANSOM: Are you ordering me to abandon my ship?
JANEWAY: I'd rather not have to.
RANSOM: That protocol was written in the Alpha Quadrant. I'm not sure that it makes much sense out here.
JANEWAY: The regulation stands.
RANSOM: Who am I to dispute protocol? Give Captain Janeway your full cooperation.
BURKE: Rudy.
RANSOM: Max, that's an order. We'll get through this. If that's all, Captain, I'd like to return to my quarters and collect a few mementoes.
JANEWAY: By all means.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Intruder alert. Same old Max, going through my things. That is a command station. It's off limits without my direct authorisation.
BURKE: I didn't realize. Are you going to throw me in the Brig?
TORRES: I think we can overlook this infraction. Can I help you with something?
BURKE: Just doing some homework, studying your propulsion system. If there's a chance I'm going to be stuck on Voyager. I figured I better learn my way around. Maybe you could tutor me over dinner?
TORRES: Problem is, you were never really interested in the work, or the meal. Something tells me you haven't changed.
BURKE: You'd be surprised. I'm not the. What did you once call me?
TORRES: PetaQ.
BURKE: PetaQ. I'm not the petaQ I used to be. Let me prove it to you.
TORRES: Look, Max, don't get me wrong, it's good to see you again, but ten years.
BURKE: Tom Paris.
TORRES: Tom Paris.
BURKE: You could do worse. So, we're still on for dinner? Just the two of us?
TORRES: Get going, or I will throw you in the Brig.

[Mess hall]
CHAKOTAY: Before we abandon the Equinox, we should try to salvage any useful components. Let's start with your dilithium crystals.
GILMORE: What we have left of them. I'm afraid we only have a few isograms.
KIM: That's barely enough to power the sonic showers.
GILMORE: Can I make a suggestion?
CHAKOTAY: Please.
GILMORE: Let's forget about the primary systems. They're too badly damaged. Let's focus on supplies. We picked up a few items I think might come in handy. Two kilotons of kemacite ore, a dozen canisters of mercurium.
CHAKOTAY: Tell Neelix to make room in Cargo Bay one.
KIM: Right.
GILMORE: Could you use a synaptic stimulator?
CHAKOTAY: Depends. What is it? '
GILMORE: It's a neural interface you wear behind your ear. It taps into your visual cortex and shows you different alien vistas. Just think of it as a poor man's holodeck.
KIM: So that's how you kept yourself entertained.
GILMORE: Beats checkers. The Ponea gave it to us.
CHAKOTAY: Never heard of them.
GILMORE: We called them the life of the Delta Quadrant. They see every First Contact as an excuse to throw a party. I wish that we had encountered more species like that. You're the first friendly faces we've seen in months. I'm glad we found you.
CHAKOTAY: The feeling's mutual. Those modified plasma injectors looked elaborate. What were you trying to do?
GILMORE: We were experimenting with ways to enhance our warp drive. It doesn't work.
KIM: Maybe we should let B'Elanna take a look.
GILMORE: It won't work. We tried for months.
NAOMI: Excuse me.
GILMORE: Oh, hello there.
NAOMI: Commander, permission to interrupt?
CHAKOTAY: Granted.
NAOMI: Ensign Gilmore.
GILMORE: That's right.
NAOMI: Naomi Wildman, Captain's Assistant.
GILMORE: Is that so?
NAOMI: I wanted to officially welcome you aboard the Starship Voyager.
GILMORE: I'm glad to be here.
NAOMI: If you need anything, replicator rations, a tour of the lower decks, I'm your man.
GILMORE: Thank you, Miss Wildman. I'll keep that in mind.
NAOMI: As you were.
GILMORE: I didn't realize that you had children on board.
KIM: Only one. She was born here.
GILMORE: I have a nephew back on Earth the same age. Well, not any more. I guess he's a teenager by now. I probably wouldn't even recognize him.
CHAKOTAY: You'll see him again.
RANSOM (voiceover): Ransom to Gilmore.
GILMORE: Yes, Captain.
RANSOM (voiceover): Report to the Equinox bridge.
GILMORE: On my way. Duty calls.
CHAKOTAY: Assemble a salvage team.
KIM: Aye, sir.

[Equinox Bridge]
BURKE: Once we take their field generator, we'll part company.
GILMORE: What happens to Voyager?
BURKE: They have weapons, shields, a full crew. They'll survive.
LESSING: Maybe we should abandon ship. Try to forget everything that's happened here.
RANSOM: A shower and a hot meal. I guess that's all it takes for some of us to forget what's at stake here. We're going home, We can't let Voyager stop us now. Not when we're this close. Now we're proceeding as planned. Are there any other objections? I need each and every one of you to give me your very best, as you always have. Max.
BURKE: This won't be easy. The generator is located on deck eleven, next to the warp plasma manifold. We can't get a clean lock without boosting the signal. Marla, we need you to set aside your claustrophobia and crawl through the access port, and set up the transport enhancers.
GILMORE: Understood.
BURKE: We'll have to take the internal sensors in that section offline. Noah, you're elected.
LESSING: You can count on me, sir.
BURKE: I'll disengage the power couplings from Engineering.
RANSOM: You'll all have time for one last shower. Make the most of it.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: There's a minor fluctuation in the security grid.
TUVOK: It's within tolerance.
SEVEN: I believe I can correct it. The discrepancy is in the Equinox research lab. If we can determine the exact frequency of their multiphasic chamber, I will tune our field generator to match it.
TUVOK: There are times when perfection hinders efficiency.
SEVEN: This is odd. The lab is still permeated with high levels of thermionic radiation.
TUVOK: It should have dissipated by now.
SEVEN: I believe I have an explanation. Three EPS conduits have been rerouted to the lab. It appears they are emitting the radiation.

[Ready room]
TUVOK: The lab was contaminated intentionally.
JANEWAY: Any theories?
TUVOK: Only one. Ransom doesn't want us to enter the research lab.
JANEWAY: He has been adamant about protecting his ship. I thought it was simply a captain's pride. I want to take a closer look at that lab. If we close off those EPS conduits, how long will it take to vent the radiation?
SEVEN: Several hours.
JANEWAY: I don't want to wait that long. Send the Doctor. He'll be immune to its effects. Tell him to look for anything out of the ordinary. Monitor his progress from Astrometrics.
TUVOK: Shall I notify Captain Ransom?
JANEWAY: Not yet. I want to wait until we test your theory.

[Equinox Research lab]
EMH: I'm in. I've found the multiphasic chamber. There's some kind of organic mass inside. It appears to be a member of the alien species.

[Astrometrics lab]
EMH (voiceover): But it's cell structures have vitrified.

[Equinox Research lab]
EMH: This is more that just a stasis chamber, it's some kind of matter conversion technology. Hold on, there's a control port here. Hmm.

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: Doctor?
EMH (voiceover): The chamber contains a polaron grid

[Equinox Research lab]
EMH: And a submolecular resequencer. It looks like it was designed to convert the alien cell structures into some kind of crystalline compound.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: That function was not specified in their schematics.

[Equinox Research lab]
EMH: I've a feeling there's a lot here they didn't specify. I've accessed their research logs. They're encrypted, but judging by the file headings, they've performed this procedure dozens of times. More of the alien compound, but it's been biochemically altered. They've extracted the base proteins. Its molecular structure is most unusual.

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: Can you be more specific?
EMH (voiceover): It appears to store a great deal of

[Equinox Research lab]
EMH: Nucleogenic energy. I'm no engineer, but I'd say they were trying to convert this material into a source of power.

[Corridor]
BURKE: I'm going to miss this ship.
RANSOM: Once we get back to Earth, there'll be plenty of women. Status?
BURKE: Ready on all fronts. The transport enhancers are in place and Noah's created a subroutine to mask Voyager's internal sensors.
RANSOM: Power couplings?
BURKE: Bypass controls have been routed to our bridge. All you need to do is say energize.
RANSOM: Janeway wants to bring on the security grid at nineteen hundred hours. We'll have to act before then. Tell the others to be prepared to.
RANSOM: Max, the transporter room's not far from here. Keep moving.
TUVOK: Captain Janeway wishes to speak with you.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: The alien compound. Ten isograms. If I understand your calculations, that's enough to increase your warp factor by what, point zero three percent for one month? Unfortunately, that boost wouldn't get you very far, so you'd need to replenish the supply and that means killing another lifeform. And then another. How many lives would it take to get you back to the Alpha quadrant? I think you know the reason we're under attack. These aliens are trying to protect themselves from you.
RANSOM: Sixty three. That's how many more it will take. Every time I sacrifice one of those lives, a part of me is lost as well.
JANEWAY: I might believe that if I hadn't examined your research. These experiments were meticulous and they were brutal. If you'd felt any remorse, you'd never have continued.
RANSOM: Starfleet regulation three, paragraph twelve. In the event of imminent destruction, a captain is authorized to preserve the lives of his crew by any justifiable means.
JANEWAY: I doubt that protocol covers mass murder.
RANSOM: In my judgment, it did.
JANEWAY: Unacceptable.
RANSOM: We had nothing. My ship was in pieces. Our dilithium was gone. We were running on thrusters, We hadn't eaten in sixteen days. We had just enough power to enter orbit of an M class planet. And lucky for us, the inhabitants were generous.

[Ankari campfire]
RANSOM (voiceover): They were called the Ankari. They provided us with a meal, a few supplies, even some dilithium crystals. They even performed one of their sacred rituals to invoke spirits of good fortune from another realm to bless our journey. But these weren't spirits, they were nucleogenic life forms. Our scans revealed that they were emitting high levels of antimatter. Later the same night we managed to obtain one of the summoning devices in exchange for an energy converter.

[Equinox Research lab]
RANSOM (voiceover): We constructed a containment field that would prevent the lifeform from vanishing so quickly, but something went wrong.
RANSOM: Get it out of there.
RANSOM (voiceover): We tried to send it back.
BURKE: We can't.
RANSOM (voiceover): But it was too late.

[Briefing room]
RANSOM: We examined the remains and discovered it could be converted to enhance our propulsion systems. It was already dead. What would you have done? We traveled over ten thousand light years in less than two weeks. We'd found our salvation. How could we ignore it?
JANEWAY: By adhering to the oath you took as Starfleet officers to seek out life, not destroy it.
RANSOM: It's easy to cling to principles when you're standing on a vessel with its bulkheads intact, manned by a crew that's not starving.
JANEWAY: It's never easy. But if we turn our backs on our principles, we stop being human. I'm putting an end to your experiments and you are hereby relieved of your command. You and your crew will be confined to quarters.
RANSOM: Please, show them leniency. They were only following my orders.
JANEWAY: Their mistake.
RANSOM: It's a long way home, Captain.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Doctor, return to their research lab and retrieve all the data you can locate on the aliens. I want to find a way to communicate with them.
EMH: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Go to their engine room. Take those warp core modifications offline.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: Let's try to make First Contact the right way.

[Corridor]
GILMORE: What's going to happen to us?
CHAKOTAY: That's up to Captain Janeway. You'll be confined to quarters until we can find a way to make peace with these lifeforms you've been killing. If it's not too late.
GILMORE: To be honest, I'm glad you stopped us. Living the rest of my life knowing what we've done
CHAKOTAY: You could have stopped yourself. Why didn't you?
GILMORE: I don't know. When the Captain ordered me to modify the warp core, I concentrated on the work. I tried not to think about how it was going to be used.
CHAKOTAY: Well, think about it now, because we need your help.
GILMORE: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: After you.

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: We're having trouble making sense of all this.
SEVEN: The schematics are encrypted. I can't access them.
CHAKOTAY: Do you know the decryption codes? Your captain's been relieved of command. You take orders from me now. Do you have the codes?
GILMORE: Yes.
SEVEN: Proceed.
CHAKOTAY: Think of it this way, Ensign. You might live with yourself a little easier.
GILMORE: You said you wanted to learn more about humanity. I guess we're not exactly prized examples. I'm sorry.
SEVEN: On the contrary. You've taught me a great deal.

[Equinox Sickbay]
EMH: Computer, I decrypted this data file. Why can't I access it?
COMPUTER: EMH authorisation is required.
EMH: Is your EMH still functional?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
EMH: Activate him.
E-EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
EMH: I require your assistance.
E-EMH: Who are you?
EMH: Your counterpart from the Starship Voyager.
E-EMH: Where's Captain Ransom? My crew?
EMH: In custody.
E-EMH: How were you able to leave your Sickbay?
EMH: This device allows me to go anywhere I please. In case you weren't aware, your crew has been running criminal experiments here.
E-EMH: I know. I designed them.
EMH: You? That's a violation of your programming.
E-EMH: They deleted my ethical subroutines.

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm picking up spatial fissures. Hundreds of them.
PARIS: Looks like they've stepped up their attacks.
JANEWAY: Reroute all available power to the shields.
CHAKOTAY: They're holding, but at this rate it won't be long before the aliens break through.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Tuvok. We need that security grid.

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: We're preparing to bring it online. Charge the emitters.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Bridge to the Doctor.
E-EMH: Sickbay here.
JANEWAY: Did you find anything?

[Sickbay]
E-EMH: Could you be more specific?

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Neural patterns, cortical scans, anything that could help us program the universal translator.

[Sickbay]
E-EMH: Er, negative. I couldn't access the Equinox data files. They were encrypted.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Keep studying the information we have. See what you can come up with.

[Sickbay]
E-EMH: Acknowledged. Computer, locate Captain Ransom.
COMPUTER: Captain Ransom is in crew quarters. Deck nine, section twenty two.

[Equinox Engineering]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Seven of Nine. What's your status?
SEVEN: I've dismantled the antimatter injectors, but I'll need several minutes to neutralize the dilithium matrix.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We don't have much time.
SEVEN (voiceover): Understood.

[Corridor]
E-EMH: The Equinox crew has been infected with a mutagenic virus. It may be contagious. I've been authorized to inoculate them.

[Crew quarters]
E-EMH: You've all contracted a virus. I'll need to treat you.
RANSOM: A virus?
E-EMH: Doctor's orders.
E-EMH: It's me.

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: Activate the grid. What happened?
TORRES: I don't understand. This should be working. I'm running a system-wide diagnostic.

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm reading phaser fire on deck nine, crew quarters.
JANEWAY: Security, seal off deck nine.
CHAKOTAY: Shields are weakening. They're down to eighty four percent.

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: Tuvok to Bridge. The field generator is offline. Its power couplings were disengaged.
TORRES: Someone reconfigured the sensors so we couldn't detect it.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Whatever it takes, get that grid online.

[Corridor]
E-EMH: I rerouted transporter control to a panel in the next junction. We can
BURKE: They've sealed off the deck.
RANSOM: Don't worry. We're getting out of here.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Shields down to fifty two percent.
KIM: Captain, unauthorized transport in progress. It's the Equinox crew.
JANEWAY: Block it.
KIM: They've bypassed ops control. They're on their bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Forty percent.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Seven of Nine.

[Equinox Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Seven, respond.

[Equinox Bridge]
BURKE: Damn!
RANSOM: What is it?
BURKE: B'Elanna's erected a forcefield. I can't get a lock on the generator
RANSOM: Try overriding the command codes.

[Astrometrics lab]
TORRES: Someone's disrupting the forcefield. It's Max. He's using one of his triquadric algorithms. I taught him how to do that ten years ago.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Shields are failing. We've got less than one minute.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. If you don't stop what you're doing, we'll both be destroyed.
RANSOM (screen): What's my alternative, thirty years in your brig?
JANEWAY: I'll open fire if I have to.
RANSOM (screen): We've been through worse.
JANEWAY: Target their power systems. Fire.

[Equinox Bridge]
RANSOM: Max!
BURKE: Stand by! Okay, BLT, let's see if you remember this trick.

[Astrometrics lab]
TORRES: Bridge, they've got the field generator!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What do you mean, they've got it?

[Astrometrics lab]
TORRES: I don't know how, but they beamed it off Voyager.

[Equinox Bridge]
RANSOM: Get us out of here.
LESSING: I can't. Warp drive is down.
RANSOM: Bridge to Marla. Report.

[Equinox Engineering]
GILMORE: One of their crew tried to dismantle the antimatter injectors. Repairs are underway.

[Equinox Bridge]
RANSOM: What about the field generator?
BURKE: I'm integrating it now.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Shields are down.
JANEWAY: Arm yourselves.

[Equinox Bridge]
RANSOM: It's now or never.
BURKE: Generator's in place. I'm bringing the grid online.

[Bridge]
KIM: Fissures are opening, all decks!

[Equinox Bridge]
RANSOM: Hold your fire!
RANSOM: Take it to the lab.
LESSING: Sir, engines are up and running.
RANSOM: Set a course for the Alpha Quadrant.
BURKE: Course laid in.
RANSOM: Maximum warp. Engage.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Captain! To Be Continued...

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Give me tactical control.
JANEWAY: Good guess. I used a deflector pulse to reinforce the shields. It won't hold for long.
PARIS: Bridge to Sickbay. We have a medical emergency. Doctor, respond. Ensign.
ENSIGN: Yes, sir.
KIM: Casualty reports are coming in. Two dead, thirteen wounded. We took heavy damage to the engines.
JANEWAY: The Equinox?
KIM: They've gone to warp.
JANEWAY: Any sign of nucleogenic particles?
KIM: No.
JANEWAY: Then they haven't engaged their enhanced warp drive yet. Keep looking for

[Equinox Bridge]
RANSOM: Report.
BURKE: The shield grid is back in place. The aliens are staying clear.
RANSOM: Are sensors picking up Voyager?
LESSING: It looks like they're under attack.
RANSOM: Maintain course.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Captain, I found the Doctor's mobile emitter on deck nine. You might want to take it to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: Any sign of the Doc?
JANEWAY: I've got him right here.
E-EMH: Please state the nature of the. Don't bother.
PARIS: You should start with Chakotay. I've got him stabilized but he's got internal injuries.
JANEWAY: We found your emitter on deck nine.
E-EMH: I was taken hostage by the Equinox crew. I deactivated myself to escape. Did you stop them?
JANEWAY: No.
CHAKOTAY: I'd ask for a status report but I'm not sure I'd want to hear it.
JANEWAY: Harry's analyzing the sound we've been hearing. He thinks it's some form of communication.
CHAKOTAY: Well, I once figured out how to speak with a Terrelian seapod. This couldn't be that much harder, Once I get out of Sickbay, I'll lend him a hand.
JANEWAY: We should all be focusing our efforts on finding the Equinox.
CHAKOTAY: First things first. We've got to stop these attacks.
JANEWAY: Our enemies aren't the aliens. They're the humans aboard the Equinox. It's crucial that you don't

[Equinox - Ransom's Quarters]
RANSOM: Who is it?
BURKE (voiceover): It's Max. I've brought you a visitor.
RANSOM: Hold on. Come in.
RANSOM: I'm glad you're okay. I've been using this synaptic stimulator. I was just taking a stroll along the Tenkaran coast. You're welcome to try it.
SEVEN: State your intentions.
RANSOM: You know, once we get our enhanced warp drive back online, we'll be on our way home, but it'll still take months to get there. You can spend that time in the brig, or you can become part of this crew. I'd prefer the latter.
SEVEN: I'd prefer the brig.
RANSOM: You know, Janeway's not the only Captain who can help you explore your humanity.
SEVEN: You would be an inferior role model.
RANSOM: Janeway clung to her morality at the expense of her crew. Maybe you should learn from that mistake.
SEVEN: Her only mistake was trusting you.
RANSOM: Take care of her wound.

[Equinox Sickbay]
BURKE: First degree phaser burns, minor lacerations. Looks like we'll have to amputate. That was a joke. You're supposed to smile and make a witty retort.
SEVEN: I'm familiar with human banter. Yours is crude and predictable.
BURKE: You know, Seven. Can I call you Seven? We don't have many luxuries around here. All we've got is each other. You might try letting your shields down or else it's going to be a lonely trip. I'll be damned. Looks like our Doctor left us a replacement.
EMH: Seven?
SEVEN: We are captives.
EMH: I was attacked by their EMH.
BURKE: Looks like he downloaded you into our database. Good. You can treat your friend.

[Equinox Engineering]
THOMPSON: Priming the injectors.
GILMORE: Marla to Bridge.
RANSOM: Go ahead.
GILMORE: We're ready.
RANSOM (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Equinox Bridge]
RANSOM: Infuse the enhanced warp drive with twenty isograms of the compound.
LESSING: Aye, sir. Warp drive ready.
RANSOM: Engage.
RANSOM: What happened?

[Equinox Engineering]
GILMORE: The power relays are offline. They've been encoded.

[Equinox Sickbay]
RANSOM: Give us the codes.
SEVEN: No.
BURKE: If she won't give us the codes maybe we could extract them ourselves.
EMH: Seven's cranial infrastructure is highly complex. You'll need months just to figure out what she had for breakfast.
BURKE: That's why you're going to help us.
EMH: I refuse.
BURKE: Do it or I'll erase your program.
EMH: Be my guest.
SEVEN: Doctor.
EMH: Don't worry, they need me. They'd be cutting off their holographic nose to spite their face. Now I suggest you
RANSOM: All right, Doctor. Now, get to work. You know what we're looking for.
EMH: Very well. She'll try to resist. I'll have to restrain her.
SEVEN: Doctor.
RANSOM: I deleted his ethical subroutines. He'll be a little more cooperative now. Keep me posted.
EMH: Aye, Captain. This way, please.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: It's not exactly Shakespeare, but it gets the point across.
CHAKOTAY: A small olive branch is still an olive branch.
JANEWAY: Run this through to your translation matrix.
CHAKOTAY: Set your weapons down.
PARIS: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Somebody's got to start trusting somebody around here.
JANEWAY: Belay that order. I appreciate your optimism, but in this case, weapons.
KIM: Ready to transmit.
JANEWAY: Drop shields, bridge only. Go ahead, Harry.
JANEWAY: Raise shields.
KIM: If they understood our message, they haven't responded.
JANEWAY: There's your response. Activate another deflector pulse.
TUVOK: Shields are holding at sixty two percent.
JANEWAY: That should buy us another few minutes of peace and quiet. I suggest we make the most of it. Focus your efforts on repairing the warp drive. We've got to find the Equinox.
CHAKOTAY: If it's all the same to you, I'd like to take another stab at the message. If we can reroute
JANEWAY: They're not listening, Chakotay. We should be tracking Ransom, not tinkering with adverbs.

[Ready room]
CHAKOTAY: Want your First Officer's advice?
JANEWAY: Allow me. Our deflector's losing power, and when it fails, we'll be defenseless. It's Voyager we should be worrying about, not the Equinox.
CHAKOTAY: You'd make a great First Officer. It's advice worth taking.
JANEWAY: Maybe so, but we have a crew member trapped on that ship.
CHAKOTAY: Is this really about Seven, or is it about Ransom?
JANEWAY: I don't know what you're talking about.
CHAKOTAY: You've been known to hold a grudge. This man betrayed Starfleet, he broke the Prime Directive, dishonored everything you believe in, and threw Voyager to the wolves.
JANEWAY: Borg, Hirogen, Malon. We've run into our share of bad guys. Ransom's no different.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, he is. You said it yourself. He's human. I don't blame you for being angry, but you can't compromise the safety of this ship to satisfy some personal vendetta.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your candor. Now let me be just as blunt. You're right, I am angry. I'm damned angry. He's a Starfleet Captain, and he's decided to abandon everything this uniform stands for. He's out there right now, torturing and murdering innocent lifeforms just to get home a little quicker. I'm not going to stand for it. I'm going to hunt him down no matter how long it takes, no matter what the cost. If you want to call that a vendetta, go right ahead.

[Equinox Bridge]
BURKE: Why did you bring us here?
RANSOM: This planet has a parthogenic atmosphere. It will keep us from being detected while we make repairs.
LESSING: We also found a few deuterium deposits.
RANSOM: Take an away team, Noah, and see if you can localize the ore.
BURKE: You won't be protected from the aliens. Arm yourselves with phasers. At the first sign of trouble, we'll beam you back.
LESSING: Aye, sir.

[Equinox Sickbay]
EMH: The ocular node's connected to the sensory node. The sensory node's connected to the cortical node. The cortical node's connected to the reticular node. Don't look so gloomy. There's a silver lining to all this. Just think, we're finally going to see Earth.
SEVEN: You are obviously delusional. Allow me to repair your program.
EMH: Now why would I want you to do that? You of all people should understand. Being unfettered by ethical subroutines has made me far more efficient.
RANSOM: Status?
EMH: I'm going to extract her cortical array. It contains an index of her memory engrams. But once I've removed it her higher brain functions, language, cognitive skills will be severely damaged.
RANSOM: Tell me the codes.
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: Janeway was right about one thing. You are unique. It would be a shame to lose you.
SEVEN: Your compassion is irrelevant.
RANSOM: You think this is easy for me? The sight of you on that table. But you're leaving me no choice.
SEVEN: No choice. You say that frequently. You destroy lifeforms to attain your goals, then claim that they left you no choice. Does that logic comfort you?
RANSOM: The codes.
SEVEN: You'll have to destroy me to obtain them.
EMH: The reticular node's connected to the occipital node.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Our warp drive's back online, but repeated sensor sweeps have failed to locate the Equinox.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: You wanted to see me?
JANEWAY: It's not like you to submit recommendations in writing.
CHAKOTAY: The last time we spoke you weren't exactly receptive.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I'm not going to be very receptive this time, either. It's an interesting idea, but the Ankari are fifty light years in the wrong direction.
CHAKOTAY: I understand that, but they're the ones who introduced Ransom to these lifeforms. It stands to reason they might be able to communicate with them, tell them to call off their attacks.
JANEWAY: Our first priority is to find Ransom. Still no sign of nucleogenic particles?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet.
JANEWAY: Then he couldn't have gotten far. Without his enhanced drive, his ship's only capable of warp six. I've been studying his service record. He's had his share of run-ins with hostile aliens. It seems that when he's being pursued, he tends to hide. At Epsilon four he ran into a Klingon Bird-of-Prey. Played a game of cat and mouse for three days in a nebula before the Klingons finally gave up. Two years later, he eluded a Romulan Warbird by taking his vessel into the atmosphere of a gas giant. Go to Astrometrics. Start looking for the kind of place you'd hide if your ship was damaged.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, ma'am.

[Equinox Bridge]
GILMORE: How was the beach?
RANSOM: Do these programs have people in them?
GILMORE: No, just landscapes. Why?
RANSOM: Forget it.

[Planet surface]
LESSING: I'm reading a vein of ore. Azimuth one seventeen, thirty meters. It could run pretty deep. We might need to use phasers to excavate it. It's funny, this reminds me of McKinley Park. I used to take my sister there when we were kids. This place looks just like it. As I recall, there was a family of ground squirrels who lived right over there. There was a patch of poison ivy next to it. When I was ten, I walked right through it and I swelled up like a Rigellian bloodworm. When I get back to Earth the first thing I'm going to do is
CHAKOTAY: Four to beam up.

[Equinox Bridge]
GILMORE: We're receiving a subspace transmission.
RANSOM: From who?
GILMORE: I can't tell.
RANSOM: I don't see a ship out there. Open a channel.
E-EMH (voiceover): Doctor to Equinox. Respond.
RANSOM: We can hear you.
E-EMH (voiceover): Voyager's found you. They've entered orbit. They polarized their hull to mask their approach.

[Sickbay]
E-EMH: I believe they've planned an ambush on the away team.

[Equinox Bridge]
E-EMH (voiceover): Janeway's been tracking the Equinox for a couple
RANSOM: Get him back.
GILMORE: I can't.
RANSOM: Ransom to away team. Noah, prepare to beam back to the ship.
GILMORE: They're not down there.
RANSOM: All hands to battle stations.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Thirty thousand kilometers and closing.
JANEWAY: Target their power core.

[Equinox Bridge]
GILMORE: Direct hit. Minor damage.
RANSOM: Return fire.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Torres. Status.

[Astrometrics lab]
TORRES: I can't locate their shield grid generator. Can you divert more power to sensors?

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Stand by.
TUVOK: They've damaged our deflector, Captain. If it goes offline, we'll be vulnerable to the alien attacks.
JANEWAY: Noted. Target his weapons array.

[Equinox Bridge]
GILMORE: We lost all phaser banks.
RANSOM: Torpedoes, full spread.
BURKE: It's B'Elanna. She's trying to bypass our security protocols.
RANSOM: Stop her.

[Astrometrics lab]
TORRES: Computer, open a comm. link to the Equinox. Workstation thirty three beta.

[Equinox Bridge]
TORRES (screen): Max, listen to me.
BURKE: Back for round two, BLT?
TORRES (screen): This isn't one of our games. People are dying over here.
BURKE: I wish you didn't have to be one of them.
TORRES: Max, please.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Shields are weakening,
JANEWAY: We've almost got him. Keep targeting their weapons array. One more torpedo ought to do it.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: Fire!

[Equinox Bridge]
GILMORE: Weapons are down!
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Ransom. Surrender your vessel.
RANSOM: We still have thrusters, don't we?
GILMORE: Aye, sir.
RANSOM: Lay in a course through the planet's atmosphere. Sixty degree vector.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What the hell is he doing? Follow him.
PARIS: We're crossing the upper thermosphere.
JANEWAY: Phasers.
TUVOK: Shields are weakening. Thirty one percent, twenty nine.
KIM: Inertial dampers are offline.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, if we loose our shields, we'll be attacked by the aliens. Captain!
JANEWAY: Break off pursuit.

[Equinox Bridge]
GILMORE: They're retreating.
RANSOM: Take us up!
BURKE: They took heavy damage. Shields, propulsion.
RANSOM: Get us out of here.

[Bridge]
PARIS: They've gone to warp.
JANEWAY: Match their course and speed.
KIM: We can't, not until we restore primary systems.
JANEWAY: Time?
KIM: We'll need a few hours.
JANEWAY: At least we didn't come away empty-handed.

[Cargo Bay two]
JANEWAY: I want Ransom's tactical status. I want it now, Mister Lessing.
LESSING: Or what, you'll hit me?
JANEWAY: No, crewman. I'll drop the shields around this room and let your little friends come pay you a visit.
LESSING: That would be murder.
JANEWAY: You could also call it poetic justice.
LESSING: I suppose the plan is that you're going to come to my rescue now, right?
CHAKOTAY: There's no plan as far as I know. The captain's on her own.
JANEWAY: Ransom's status, now.
LESSING: No way in hell.
JANEWAY: We all make our own hell, Mister Lessing. I hope you enjoy yours. The comm. is active. We'll be outside if you have a change of heart.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: What are you doing?
JANEWAY: Weren't you listening?
CHAKOTAY: Don't do this.
JANEWAY: He'll break.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Bridge to the Captain. We've lost shields in section twenty nine alpha.
JANEWAY (voiceover): I know. Stand by.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: He's a loyal officer. He's not going to betray his captain. Put up the shields.
JANEWAY: He'll break.
CHAKOTAY: Captain!
JANEWAY: As you were.
COMPUTER: Level nine authorisation required.
CHAKOTAY: Damn it, Kathryn!
JANEWAY: You're panicking. He's going to talk.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, a fissure is opening in that section.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Understood.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Okay, you've demonstrated your loyalty to your captain. Fine. Now let's talk about the Ankari.

[Briefing room]
TORRES: If there's an Ankari vessel less than two light years from here, why haven't we detected it?
CHAKOTAY: Apparently, they use a unique form of propulsion, which makes them hard to find.
PARIS: You think they'll be willing to help us?
CHAKOTAY: It's worth a try. Mister Lessing has agreed to show you how to adjust the sensors. Once you find the Ankari ship, set a course.
PARIS: Aye, sir.
EMH: Did our prisoner disclose any other information?
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid not. The rest of you continue with the repairs. Dismissed.
JANEWAY: Commander.
JANEWAY: All right, we're going to try it your way. But I want to make one thing clear.
CHAKOTAY: Our first priority is to get Ransom. If there's one thing you've made clear, it's that.
JANEWAY: We've had our disagreements, Chakotay, but you've never openly opposed me.
CHAKOTAY: You almost killed that man today.
JANEWAY: It was a calculated risk and I took it.
CHAKOTAY: It was a bad call.
JANEWAY: I'll note your objection in my log.
CHAKOTAY: I don't give a damn about your log. This isn't about rules and regulations. It's about right and wrong. And I'm warning you, I won't let you cross that line again.
JANEWAY: Then you leave me no choice. You are hereby relieved of duty until further notice.
CHAKOTAY: What's happened to you, Kathryn?
JANEWAY: I was about to ask you the same question.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: They are not responding.
JANEWAY: Tractor beam.
TUVOK: Captain, the Ankari ship has done nothing
JANEWAY: Just do it.
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
ANKARI (screen): Starfleet.
JANEWAY: Yes.
ANKARI (screen): Leave us alone. There's nothing of value on our ship.
JANEWAY: We need your guidance. Your spirits of good fortune are attacking us.
ANKARI (screen): Of course they are. You've been killing them.
JANEWAY: We are not the ones responsible.
ANKARI (screen): Equinox.
JANEWAY: That's right. Can you communicate with the aliens?
ANKARI (screen): Release my ship.
JANEWAY: I can't do that. Not until you agree to talk to them.
ANKARI (screen): I will summon them, but you must talk to them. You must convince them.

[Cargo Bay two]
ANKARI: They say they want the humans to die.
TUVOK: A difficult place to start a negotiation.
JANEWAY: Will they understand me?
ANKARI: Yes.
JANEWAY: We didn't do this to you. We're trying to stop the humans who did.
ANKARI: They don't believe you would harm your own kind.
JANEWAY: We have rules for behavior. The Equinox has broken those rules by killing your species. It's our duty to stop them.
ANKARI: Give us the Equinox. Give us the Equinox. They insist on destroying the ones who are responsible.
TUVOK: We will punish them according to our own rules. They will be imprisoned. They will lose their freedom.
JANEWAY: All right! If you stop your attacks, I'll deliver the Equinox to you.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: I know what I'm doing, Tuvok.
TUVOK: These beings would destroy Captain Ransom and his crew.
JANEWAY: What's their answer?
TUVOK: Your behavior is irrational. We could find another solution.
JANEWAY: I've already confined my First Officer to quarters. Would you like to join him? Well?
ANKARI: They agree,

[Equinox Bridge]
BURKE: We're going to need more fuel. We've only got enough left to jump another five hundred light years.
RANSOM: Fuel. Is that the euphemism we're using now? You mean we need to kill more lifeforms.
BURKE: Several more.

[Equinox Sickbay]
EMH: Oh, my darling, Oh, my darling, Oh, my darling
SEVEN: Clementine.
RANSOM: How much longer?
EMH: Another hour, maybe less. You are lost and gone forever
SEVEN: Dreadful sorry, Clementine.
RANSOM: What are you doing?
EMH: Her auditory processor. We used to practice duets together. In fact, I taught her this old chestnut. Light she was and like a fairy.
SEVEN: And her shoes were number nine.
EMH: Herring boxes without topses.
SEVEN: Sandals were for Clementine.
EMH: Drove she ducklings to the water
RANSOM: Enough.
EMH: Why the long face, Captain? You're about to get your crew home. She tried to stand in your way. You had no choice.
RANSOM: No choice. Thank you, Doctor.
EMH: When this is all over, perhaps you'll allow me to teach you my repertoire. I'm going to need a new partner.
EMH: Hmm. Drove she ducklings to the water.

[Equinox - Ransom's quarters]
RANSOM: You. What are you doing here?
SEVEN: Hiding, like you.
RANSOM: I'm not hiding.
SEVEN: It's beautiful. I can see why this brings you comfort.
RANSOM: I don't know what you're talking about.
SEVEN: But it isn't real.
RANSOM: You're not real. Now leave me alone.
SEVEN: It's not too late to stop.
RANSOM: I don't have a choice.
SEVEN: Find another way.
RANSOM: There is no other way.
SEVEN: Stop trying to hide.
RANSOM: I told you, I'm not hiding. Now get away from me.
SEVEN: End this.
RANSOM: No!
BURKE (voiceover): Bridge to Ransom.
RANSOM: Go ahead.
BURKE (voiceover): Janeway's found us.
RANSOM: On my way.

[Equinox Bridge]
BURKE: Distance?
GILMORE: Fifty thousand kilometers, closing fast.
BURKE: Maintain course. Voyager's approaching at high warp. There's a class two nebula less than a light year from here. Janeway's sensors won't be able to track us once we're inside. I think that we should pursue this course.
RANSOM: No. Open a channel.
BURKE: Change of tactics?
RANSOM: You might say that. It's time we found another way home.
BURKE: Another way?
RANSOM: We're going to cooperate with Janeway, Max, if she's willing.
BURKE: Rudy, with all due respect, have you lost your mind?
RANSOM: Just the opposite.
GILMORE: They're within range. They're charging weapons.
RANSOM: Hail them.
BURKE: Belay that order. Raise shields.
RANSOM: You're relieved of duty, Commander.
BURKE: I'm taking command. Anyone who isn't with me, speak up now. Take him to the brig.
GILMORE: I'm sorry.
BURKE: What's the status of our weapons?
THOMPSON: Full complement of torpedoes. Minimal phasers.
BURKE: Open a secure channel to their Sickbay. Stand by weapons.
THOMPSON: Aye, sir.

[Medical lab]
E-EMH: I'm here.

[Equinox Bridge]
BURKE: We're going to need your help, Doctor. See if you can find Voyager's current shield frequency.

[Medical lab]
E-EMH: Acknowledged. I'll need a few minutes.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: They are firing torpedoes.
KIM: Direct hit to our port shields. They're holding.
JANEWAY: Return the favor.

[Equinox Engineering]
RANSOM: This isn't the brig.
GILMORE: I know. I'm with you, sir. Let's find a way to end this.
RANSOM: We'll need to access transporter control.

[Bridge]
KIM: We've damaged their port nacelle. They're venting plasma.
PARIS: They're dropping out of warp.
JANEWAY: Stay with them.

[Equinox Bridge]
E-EMH (voiceover): Doctor to Equinox. I've got their shield frequency.

[Medical lab]
E-EMH: I'm transmitting it to you now.
BURKE (voiceover): They'll try to remodulate. Keep monitoring.
E-EMH: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
TORRES: They've slowed to one quarter impulse.
JANEWAY: Prepare a tractor beam.
TUVOK: They are launching another torpedo.
JANEWAY: Full power to the forward shields.
KIM: Hull breach on deck four.
TORRES: How'd they get through our shields?
JANEWAY: Hard about. Get us out of range. Remodulate the shields.

[Equinox Bridge]
THOMPSON: They're retreating.
BURKE: Pursuit course. Maintain fire.

[Bridge]
KIM: They took out the weapons array.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
TUVOK: I've been rotating the shield frequency every ten seconds.
PARIS: We've lost impulse engines.
KIM: We're being hailed. It's Ransom.
JANEWAY: Put him through.
RANSOM (screen): Captain, I'm prepared to surrender the Equinox, but I'm no longer in command. Max decided to stage a little mutiny, but I think I can stop him. I've isolated transporter control. I can beam all of us to Voyager. You might want to have some guards standing by. Not everyone here is going to be happy to see you.
JANEWAY: Proceed.
PARIS: Ma'am?
JANEWAY: He's still a Starfleet captain. He may have forgotten that for a while, but I believe him.

[Equinox Bridge]
BURKE: Someone's trying to beam us off. Forcefields.

[Equinox Engineering]
GILMORE: They're deflecting our targeting scanners.
RANSOM: Then beam the others to Voyager, yourself included. I'll take care of Max.
GILMORE: Aye, sir.
RANSOM: Computer, Give me access to the shield grid.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Well, I see you've made yourself at home.
E-EMH: What are you doing here?
EMH: Taking back my Sickbay.
E-EMH: Stop where you are. I've planted photonic charges throughout these holo-projectors. With one command sequence, I can blow out your entire
EMH: Computer, delete the Equinox EMH.

[Equinox Bridge]
THOMPSON: The Doctor's not transmitting anymore.
BURKE: Burke to Doctor, report.
EMH (voiceover): I'm afraid your physician's no longer on call.
RANSOM (voiceover): Max, this is the Captain. I've dropped the shield grid

[Equinox Engineering]
RANSOM: Everywhere except the bridge and my current location.

[Equinox Bridge]
RANSOM (voiceover): The vital systems are exposed.

[Equinox Engineering]
RANSOM: I suggest you beam to Voyager while you still can.

[Equinox Bridge]
THOMPSON: The core is overloading. We've got to get out of here.
BURKE: Where? Voyager's brig?
THOMPSON: It's better than being vaporized.
BURKE: We still have a working shuttle.
THOMPSON: The shuttle bay's two decks down. Sir, the aliens!
BURKE: We'll make it.

[Equinox Corridor]
BURKE: This way.

[Bridge]
KIM: There's only one life sign left. It's Ransom.
JANEWAY: Captain.
RANSOM (screen): Things didn't work out exactly as I planned, but you've got everyone worth getting.
JANEWAY: We're beaming you out of there.
RANSOM (screen): This ship is about to explode. I've got to put some distance between us. I've accessed helm control.
JANEWAY: You can set auto-navigation and then transport to Voyager.
RANSOM (screen): There's no time! You've got a fine crew, Captain. Promise me you'll get them home.
JANEWAY: I promise.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. With the Equinox destroyed, the aliens have withdrawn to their realm. I've reinstated Chakotay and we've set a course for home.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Good as new. I'd like you to regenerate for the next few hours. It'll help stabilize your cortical array.
SEVEN: Understood.
EMH: Regarding the unpleasantness aboard the Equinox. I hope you don't think less of me.
SEVEN: Your program was altered.
EMH: It's quite disconcerting to know that all someone has to do is flick a switch to turn me into Mister Hyde.
SEVEN: Perhaps you should enhance your program with security protocols. It will prevent such tampering in the future.
EMH: Good thinking.
SEVEN: When I'm done regenerating, I will assist you.
EMH: Thanks.
SEVEN: You were off-key.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
SEVEN: My Darling Clementine, third verse, second measure.
EMH: That's impossible.
SEVEN: Your vocal modulations deviated by point three zero decihertz. I can assist you with that as well.
EMH: Really? Holodeck two, tomorrow, sixteen hundred hours. Just you, me, and a tuning fork.
SEVEN: I look forward to it.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: The last time we welcomed you aboard, you took advantage of our trust. You betrayed this crew. I won't make that mistake again. Noah Lessing, Marla Gilmore, James Morrow, Brian Sofin, Angelo Tassoni, you are hereby stripped of rank. You'll be expected to serve as crewmen on this vessel. Your privileges will be limited, and you'll serve under close supervision for as long as I deem fit. This time, you'll have to earn our trust. Dismissed.
JANEWAY: Repairs?
CHAKOTAY: Coming along.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: How's the crew?
CHAKOTAY: A lot of frayed nerves. Neelix is organizing a potluck to help boost morale.
JANEWAY: Will I see you there?
CHAKOTAY: I'm replicating the salad.
JANEWAY: I'll bring the croutons. Chakotay. You know, you may have had good reason to stage a little mutiny of your own.
CHAKOTAY: The thought had occurred to me, but that would have been crossing the line.
JANEWAY: Will you look at that?
JANEWAY: All these years, all these battles. This thing's never fallen down before.
CHAKOTAY: Let's put it back up where it belongs.

[Planet surface]
TWO OF NINE: Input failure.
FOUR OF NINE: Input failure.
THREE OF NINE: Input failure.
SEVEN OF NINE: Our link to the Collective has been severed. Initiate secondary protocols. The vessel's transwarp chamber is approaching critical pressure. We must evacuate this area.
ALL: Agreed.
TWO OF NINE: No directional coordinates available.
SEVEN OF NINE: That way. Bearing three zero one.
ALL: Agreed:
SEVEN OF NINE: Bring that drone. Captain's log: stardate 53049.2. We've docked at the Markonian outpost and agreed to mutual visits, so I'm allowing shore leave to anyone who wants it. Commander Tuvok has objected to taking on too many visitors, but security issues aside, I'm looking forward to a cultural exchange, and making some new friends.

[Ready room]
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: I'll be right with you. The station manager didn't tell me the vines were prehensile. I went to put some water in the pot and it grabbed me.
CHAKOTAY: This is a gift from the Kinbori delegation. I don't know its name, only that it's used in one of their sacred games and it's very heavy.
JANEWAY: Put it down anywhere. Thank the Kinbori for me and give them a token of our esteem.
CHAKOTAY: I already gave them a Voyager medallion. They seemed appreciative.
JANEWAY: Come in. Doesn't it look like Christmas morning in here, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: You have to admit the generosity of our guests is very impressive.
TUVOK: As is their proclivity for criminal behavior. This morning's security report.
JANEWAY: A broken ODN line, some missing personal items, a damaged scanner relay. All in all, not that bad.
TUVOK: There is a second page to the report.
JANEWAY: Oh. Some of these incidents are a little more serious but, on balance, I still think we did the right thing.
TUVOK: There is a third page.
CHAKOTAY: Come on, Tuvok. After all the xenophobic races we've run into, don't you find it just a little refreshing to meet some people who value openness and freedom?
JANEWAY: Well as far as I'm concerned, opening the ship has been a fascinating experience and an unqualified success. I'm very pleased.
CHAKOTAY: Me too.
TUVOK: I am pleased that you are pleased. If you'll excuse me.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok. Please accept this token of our esteem.
JANEWAY: Ooh, ow! It's got me by the hair!

[Astrometrics lab]
NAOMI: Now it's twelve forty five.
SEVEN: If you're hungry you may eat without me.
NAOMI: You said we'd have lunch together.
SEVEN: I haven't completed my analysis of the station's power conversion matrix.
NAOMI: How long is it going to take?
SEVEN: Several hours.
NAOMI: Seven, you promised.
SEVEN: Very well.

[Corridor]
NAOMI: I think it's even more crowded than this morning.
SEVEN: Yes.
NAOMI: Excuse us. Excuse us. Please, we're trying to get through to the turbolift. Excuse us.
SEVEN: Stand aside!
NAOMI: Thank you.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: I'm sorry, but there's no more Marsupial surprise. We only had two kilos of pouches to begin with, and it's all gone. Now how about some pizza, huh?
NAOMI: She's a Shivolian, right?
SEVEN: Correct.
NAOMI: Species five two one?
SEVEN: Your mother would not approve of you memorizing Borg designations. I don't approve either. We've discussed the impropriety of you emulating the Borg.
NAOMI: Sorry.
SEVEN: I'm finished.
NAOMI: We just sat down.
SEVEN: I do not enjoy crowds.
NAOMI: But you were in the Collective. Wasn't that like a big crowd?
SEVEN: Which is why I do not enjoy them now.
NAOMI: Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't realize that. Let's go.
TWO: Excuse me. Are you Seven of Nine?
SEVEN: Yes.
NAOMI: You okay?
SEVEN: These are Borg synaptic relays from my original Unimatrix.
NAOMI: These are yours?
SEVEN: Where did you acquire them?
TWO: A trader from Orendal Five. I was told you are a former Borg drone and might be interested in acquiring these pieces.
SEVEN: I'll take them. Captain Janeway will provide you with whatever monetary reimbursement you require.
TWO: Agreed.
SEVEN: I must examine these items more closely.
NAOMI: Okay.
NAOMI: What's your name?
NAOMI: That was rude.
TWO OF NINE (voiceover): Stage two is complete. She has the relays.

[Engineering]
TWO (voiceover): She's going to study them.
THREE (voiceover): Her regeneration alcove is in Cargo Bay Two.

[Corridor]
FOUR (voiceover): That's where she'll go. We should prepare for stage three.

[Engineering]
THREE (voiceover): Agreed.

[Mess hall]
TWO (voiceover): There's consensus. Rendezvous at my coordinates and stand by to penetrate their security.

[Planet surface]
NINE: Error.
SEVEN OF NINE: Explain.
FOUR OF NINE: We shouldn't be desecrating the body of this drone. It is against the will of Brothara.
THREE OF NINE: Who is Brothara?
TWO OF NINE: Brothara. Supernatural deity worshiped by species five seven one.
FOUR OF NINE: I am a member of species five seven one.
SEVEN OF NINE: You're being confused by irrelevant data. Ignore it.
THREE OF NINE: You said I am a member of species five seven one. Do you consider yourself an individual?
SEVEN OF NINE: There are no individuals here. We are Borg.
ALL: Agreed.
SEVEN OF NINE: Resume constructing the communications beacon.

[Cargo Bay two]
TORRES: It looks like a standard Borg synaptic relay.
SEVEN: There must be something more. When I first came into contact with it, I was overwhelmed with images, memories, sounds.
TORRES: Sounds like a perfectly natural reaction to me. That was part your old unimatrix, right? Well, isn't it at least possible that what you experienced was simply nostalgia? You know, sentimental feelings about the past.
SEVEN: I know what nostalgia is, but I have no feelings about the past.
TORRES: Okay. I think I've done all I can here.
SEVEN: Lieutenant. You were trying to help. I appreciate that.
TORRES: Anytime. Oh, and, er, you may not be nostalgic about the past, but I'd say you definitely have feelings about it. Strong ones.

[Mess hall]
TWO (voiceover): Their security protocols are formidable. We may not have enough time.
FOUR (voiceover): I'm worried about Seven of Nine. We should re-examine the question of simply asking
THREE (voiceover): You know what her reactions will be. She won't help us because she
TWO (voiceover): We've been through all that.
FOUR (voiceover): She could be permanently injured. I don't want to harm her.
TWO: Enough!
THREE: I need consensus.
TWO: We can't act without it.
FOUR: I know.
TWO: So then it's up to you. Do we proceed or not?
FOUR: Yes. We, I apologize for my indecision.
THREE: Apologies are irrelevant.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Computer, begin multi-polar analysis.
COMPUTER: Analysis underway.
SEVEN: Time to completion?
COMPUTER: Five hours, seventeen minutes.

[Mess hall]
TWO: She's regenerating.
THREE: Begin rerouting their internal sensors.
FOUR (voiceover): Rerouting sensor input to secondary processors.

[Turbolift]
THREE: Hold.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: What have you got?
TUVOK: There's a power fluctuation in the security grid.
CHAKOTAY: All we know is that we've got a security breach. We don't know where.

[Cargo Bay two]
TWO: Ready. Insert the interlink module.
THREE: Ready.
TWO: He's still worried about injuring her.
THREE: If we fail, we'll never become individuals. We have to remember that.
TWO: There is consensus.
TWO: I've found her memory files.
THREE: She's aware of our presence.
TWO: She's trying to regain consciousness.
FOUR: We must abort.
THREE: No! We're too close.
SEVEN: I will not comply.

[Planet surface]
SEVEN OF NINE: I have performed this action before. I was with my father. He was a tall man.
TWO OF NINE: I have a similar memory. But I was in a house and the fire was in the hearth.
FOUR OF NINE: The biomatter is ready.
THREE OF NINE: It tastes similar to a bird I once ate.
FOUR OF NINE: I used to prepare food for my parents. They lived in a small building by a river.
SEVEN OF NINE: I used to be afraid of the dark.
TWO OF NINE: Just before I was assimilated, I was eating with a group of men. We worked in numbers. Mathematics. I calculated equations for another man.
THREE OF NINE: I have a name. It's Marika. Marika Willkarah. Willkarah.
TWO OF NINE: Hello, Marika Willkarah.
SEVEN OF NINE: Her designation is Three of Nine.
FOUR OF NINE: I have a name. P'Chan. Son of Dornar and Ansha. My primary function was to care for them.
THREE OF NINE: I was married. We were on a starship, the Excalibur. I worked in Engineering.
TWO OF NINE: This is not my hand.
FOUR OF NINE: My parents are dead. The Borg killed them. I hate the Borg.
SEVEN OF NINE: This is counterproductive. We must delete all irrelevant data.
TWO OF NINE: I want my hand back.
THREE OF NINE: I was on duty, the night watch, when the Borg came. Oh, my God, look at what they've done to me. These, these things they put in my body. What have they done?
SEVEN OF NINE: Command override. Cease this interaction. Comply! We will not access these memory files again. Initiate the prescribed maintenance and survival protocols only. No further communication is required until we are r-assimilated into the Collective.
TWO OF NINE: Agreed.
THREE OF NINE: Agreed.
FOUR OF NINE: Agreed.

[Sickbay]
EMH: But whoever removed their implants was a poor surgeon. Their internal organs were damaged during the procedure and their bodies are covered with scars.
JANEWAY: You said you recognized them.
SEVEN: Not at first. But when they attempted to access my memory files I was momentarily linked with them. Two of Nine. Three of Nine. Four of Nine. We were all members of the same Unimatrix.
JANEWAY: Do you know why they were trying to access your memories?
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: How long have they been disconnected from the Collective?
EMH: Three or four months. However, they are still connected to each other. Somehow, the left parietal lobes of their brains have been transformed into organic interlink nodes. They've become linked together into a sort of Collective Triad.
JANEWAY: Revive them. I'm Captain Janeway. We know who you are and we know what you were trying to do. What we don't know is why.
TWO: She has information we need.
JANEWAY: What kind of information?
TWO: We want to become
THREE: Individuals.
JANEWAY: You want to break the neural link between the three of you?
THREE: Wouldn't you? None of us is alone with our own thoughts, our own feelings.
TWO: Every day of my life is spent hearing their two voices in my head.
FOUR: When we're asleep, we experience each other's dreams.
EMH: How's that different from life in the Collective?
SEVEN: In the Collective there are billions of voices. They become white noise.
TWO: But, with only three
THREE: Each voice comes through clearly.
FOUR: It has to stop. We must break the neural link.
JANEWAY: Doctor, is there anything you can do?
EMH: The modifications are too extensive. Their neuronal pathways have been fundamentally altered.
TWO: You hold the key.
SEVEN: Why?
THREE: You were there with us.
FOUR: Planet one eight six five alpha. You must remember.
SEVEN: Eight years ago our vessel crashed. The four of us were the only survivors.
TWO: When we were reassimilated
THREE: We found we'd been linked together somehow.
FOUR: We were a subset within the Collective.
TWO: It's like having three voices whispering in one ear
THREE: And a crowd screaming in the other
FOUR: We had to break free, so we worked together. We finally escaped.
TWO: We had our implants removed on Inavar Prime.
THREE: But they couldn't break the neural link.
FOUR: We need to find out what happened eight years ago, after the crash.
TWO: The night we were reassimilated into the Collective. We need to know how the link was created, but our memories are
THREE: Fragmented, disorganized. We hoped that you would know.
SEVEN: I don't. However, I am willing to attempt to retrieve the data. Come with me.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Are you ready?
FOUR: Yes.
SEVEN: Data search complete. Do you remember anything further?
FOUR: No. My last memory
THREE: Is of us standing
ALL: Around the campfire.
SEVEN: And yet the data files in your cortical processor appear to be intact. I see no evidence that would explain your lapse in memory.
TWO: What about you? Why don't you remember what happened?
SEVEN: I don't know. I've found no evidence of damage to my memory files either. I remember the campfire and then waking up in the Collective. There is an obvious gap, but no indication of why.
TWO: Why do they still call you Seven? You should have a name.
SEVEN: It is my name.
FOUR: No. It's a designation. You're an individual now.
SEVEN: I decided that my former name was no longer appropriate. Prepare to reinitialize the memory cascade.
THREE: I can't wait to use my real name again.
SEVEN: There is nothing preventing you from doing so.
TWO: Except that most of the time I don't know whether my name is Marika, P'Chan or Lansor. The names, the memories
FOUR: The memories, even the thoughts flow from one to the other.
THREE: I can't love or hate or laugh.
ALL: Or cry without sharing it with them.
TWO: How can any of us take a name for
ALL: For ourselves?
FOUR: We're not individuals.
THREE: We're not Borg.
TWO: We're nothing.
SEVEN: Begin the memory cascade.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: A friendly game?
PARIS: Well, that's how it started.
JANEWAY: I see. Perhaps you could explain to me how this friendly game turned into a street brawl?
PARIS: Well, Harry and I wanted to explore the station. We wanted to broaden our understanding of alien cultures and, er
JANEWAY: Skip the recruiting speech. You were looking for a bar. Then what?
KIM: Well, we found one, and we met a pair of Kinbori who told us about this game they play with these big, odd-looking rackets.
JANEWAY: You mean one of those?
BOTH: Yeah!
PARIS: In any case, they challenged us to a game and we accepted, but I guess we weren't quite aware of all the rules.
JANEWAY: Because you'd been drinking.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. You see, we thought it was a version of tennis, but as soon as we hit the first volley this Kinbori jumps over the net and starts attacking us with his racket.
KIM: So we figured we were supposed to fight back.
PARIS: Yeah.
KIM: And then, er, well, things got a little out of hand.
JANEWAY: A little out of hand? Seven Voyager crewmen, including two bridge officers, along with thirteen Kinbori and one Morphinian café owner, all arrested. The charges range from disorderly conduct to assault on a security officer.
KIM: That last one's not true.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Mister Kim. I'll note that exception in my log. You're both confined to quarters until further notice, after you report to Sickbay. That's all. Well, did you win?
PARIS: Oh yes, ma'am.
KIM: We kicked their rackets.
JANEWAY: Good. Dismissed.
JANEWAY: Any progress?
SEVEN: I've determined that we all have exactly the same gap in our memories. It seems unlikely that it would be a coincidence.
JANEWAY: So you believe the Collective deliberately wiped your recollections of the reassimilation process?
SEVEN: It is the most likely explanation.
JANEWAY: But?
SEVEN: The Collective would not care that four drones remember being reassimilated.
JANEWAY: Something must have happened during the process. Something they wanted to hide from you. Let's look at this from a different perspective. Why would the Collective lock them into a neural triad in the first place?
SEVEN: I don't know. There is no advantage to having three drones linked together in this manner.
JANEWAY: They obviously did it for some reason. And I get the feeling that if we can answer that question, the rest should fall into place. But I wish we could find a way to close the gaps in your memories.
SEVEN: There is a way.
JANEWAY: I assume there's a reason you didn't mention it before now?
SEVEN: It would involve linking my neural interface to theirs. Together, we may be able to restore the missing data. However, I would again be part of a group mind.
JANEWAY: You're not eager to revisit that experience, hmm?
SEVEN: There's also the possibility that I could become trapped in the neural link.
JANEWAY: Turning the triad into a quartet. I won't ask you to take that kind of risk.
SEVEN: I do feel compelled to help them, but I am uncertain as to the correct course of action.
JANEWAY: Let me ask you something. Do you think of these people as family?
SEVEN: Is it relevant?
JANEWAY: There's an old saying. Blood is thicker than water. It means that the ties of family run deeper than any other kind of relationship. We'll often do things for members of our family we'd never dream of doing for anyone else.

[Corridor]
NAOMI: Seven. Seven.
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: I heard about the drones. Did they hurt you?
SEVEN: I am not damaged.
NAOMI: What do they want?
SEVEN: They are seeking information from me, but I am uncertain whether I can help them.
NAOMI: Oh. Be careful.
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman, do you consider me to be family?
NAOMI: I, I don't, I mean. Yes. Is that okay?
SEVEN: I have no objection.
NAOMI: Do you think of me as family?
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Seven of Nine has decided to undergo the procedure that will link her mind with the other drones. Despite the risk involved, she feels an obligation to help these distant cousins.

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: I'll be monitoring your neural readings while you're in the link, but I'm not certain I'll be able to counter the effects if you become trapped.
SEVEN: I know you'll do your best.
EMH: It's never a good sign when the patient feels the need to comfort the doctor. Good luck.
SEVEN: Ready?
TWO: Ready.
FOUR: Ready.
THREE: Ready.

[Planet surface]
SEVEN OF NINE: You are damaged. I will assist you. Don't worry. Everything will be all right. FOUR
NINE: The Collective has located us. A Borg vessel is on its way.
SEVEN OF NINE: We will be one with the Borg again.
TWO OF NINE: No. I do not want to rejoin the Collective.
FOUR OF NINE: Agreed.
SEVEN OF NINE: That is in violation of all established protocols.
THREE OF NINE: Forget the protocols. You're not a drone. You're a person, like us.
FOUR OF NINE: You have a name, a life. All you have to do is embrace who you really are.
SEVEN OF NINE: No. I do not exist. I am only part of the greater whole.
TWO OF NINE: That's what they want you to believe. That's what they want us all to believe.
SEVEN OF NINE: We are Borg. Our primary function is to serve the Collective.
TWO OF NINE: Not anymore.
SEVEN OF NINE: Error. Input failure.
TWO OF NINE: They may know what planet we're on, but without the beacon it'll be far more difficult to locate us.
THREE OF NINE: If we can remodulate our cortical implants, we might be able to elude their sensors.
TWO OF NINE: We must leave this place.
SEVEN OF NINE: This discussion is in violation of all established protocols.
THREE OF NINE: You stay here and be reassimilated if you want to. I won't. FOUR
NINE: What are you doing?
SEVEN OF NINE: The nanoprobes will create new interlink nodes in your left hemisphere. Resistance is futile. (A few moments later, he gets up and follows her. They find Two, and Seven does the same to him. They finally catch up to Three.) THREE
NINE: I will not comply. I will not comply.
SEVEN OF NINE: State your designations.
TWO OF NINE: Two of Nine. Primary adjunct of Unimatrix zero one.
THREE OF NINE: Three of Nine. Auxiliary processor of Unimatrix zero one.
FOUR OF NINE: Four of Nine. Secondary adjunct of Unimatrix zero one.
SEVEN OF NINE: What is your primary function?
ALL: To serve the Collective.
SEVEN OF NINE: You will repair the communications beacon.

[Cargo Bay two]
TWO: It was you. You were responsible. What have you done to us?
THREE: You linked us together.
FOUR: You're responsible for our suffering.
THREE: How could you do it?
TWO: If you didn't want to return to the Collective
THREE: You didn't have to.
SEVEN: You don't understand what happened.
SEVEN: Somebody help me!
TUVOK: What's happening?
EMH: Somehow they broke their link with Seven. They're malfunctioning. Help me get them to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: When they broke the connection with you, it must have overloaded their cortical implants. They went into neural shock.
SEVEN: And yet I was undamaged?
EMH: I think I know why. You said you remembered injecting them with nanoprobes eight years ago.
SEVEN: Yes. It created an interlink between them. It was the only way to prevent them from escaping the Collective.
EMH: Well, it seems to have had an unfortunate side effect. Their higher brain functions were somehow tied into the interlink. When they broke their connection with you in the cargo bay, the shock to their cognitive systems was too great.
SEVEN: Can you revive them?
EMH: I can remove the microcortical implants. That would break the link binding them together, but it would also kill them. They'd only live a matter of weeks. A month at the most.
SEVEN: What are the other options?
EMH: They could be returned to the Borg. If they were reassimilated into the Collective, they would regain consciousness, and then live out a normal life span.
SEVEN: As drones.
EMH: As drones. But they'd be alive, Seven.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: They have no hope of surviving unless they return to the Collective.
CHAKOTAY: Not exactly a happy ending, is it?
SEVEN: No.
CHAKOTAY: Back on that planet, why do you think you reacted so differently from the rest of them? Why were you so afraid of becoming an individual?
SEVEN: When I was first assimilated into the Collective, I was a child. They were assimilated as adults. When our individual memories began to resurface
CHAKOTAY: Yours were of being a little girl. A scared little girl.
SEVEN: I let that fear control me. After I saw the drone die in the swamp, I panicked. I began to envision my own death. Alone, without even the sound of another drone to comfort me. So I forced them to return. I infiltrated their left cerebral hemispheres with nanoprobes and created a new interlink network. One that they couldn't resist. And then I eliminated the evidence of what I had done.
CHAKOTAY: You were overwhelmed by feelings you couldn't begin to understand. You're not responsible for that.
SEVEN: Because of what I did, they'll be forced to live the rest of their lives in the Collective. For that, I am responsible.
CHAKOTAY: There's a difference between surviving and living. They'll survive in the Collective, but they won't really be alive. You know that better than any of us.
SEVEN: There is no alternative.
CHAKOTAY: How long would they survive if the Doctor deactivated this interlink network you created?
SEVEN: A month at most.
CHAKOTAY: A month as an individual, or a lifetime as a drone. Which option would you choose?

[Doctor's office]
SEVEN: Survival is insufficient.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
SEVEN: Eight years ago, I forced them to return to the Collective. I won't make the same mistake again. They deserve to exist as individuals. We must terminate the link between them.
EMH: I understand that you feel a certain responsibility for these patients, but as their physician, so do I. It's my duty to preserve their lives for as long as possible, even if that means
SEVEN: I will not return them to the Borg.
EMH: Are you thinking of what's best for them, or for you?
SEVEN: Clarify.
EMH: You said it yourself. You made a mistake. And Seven of Nine doesn't like to make mistakes. She strives for perfection. I want you to think about the motivation behind your decision. Are you doing what's right for those three people, or are you trying to alleviate the guilt you feel over what happened eight years ago?
SEVEN: The damage I did can never be repaired, and my guilt is irrelevant. I simply want them to experience individuality, as I have. As you have. At one time, you were confined to this Sickbay. Your program was limited to emergency medical protocols. In some ways, you were not unlike a drone. But you were granted the opportunity to explore your individuality. You were allowed to expand your program. Your mobile emitter gives you freedom of movement. Your thoughts are your own. If you were told you had to become a drone again, I believe you would resist.
EMH: Yes. I suppose I would.
SEVEN: They would resist as well. They would choose freedom, no matter how fleeting. Only you and I can truly understand that.
EMH: Survival is insufficient.

[Mess hall]
THREE: It's so quiet.
FOUR: I had no idea you were going to say that. I don't know what either of you is thinking.
TWO: I'd forgotten what it was like to be alone with my own thoughts. I'm leaving.
THREE: Where will you go?
TWO: I want to see the space station, to meet new people. To fill my life with life again, in the time I have left.
FOUR: I'm leaving as well. There's an uninhabited planet only a few light years from here. I'd like to spend my final days in the open air.
FOUR: My people don't believe in holding grudges. I wish you well, Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Thank you.
THREE: It's nice to be on a Federation Starship again. I'd like to stay aboard Voyager.
SEVEN: The Captain said you may stay as long as you wish.
THREE: You mean as long as I have. I can't forgive you for what you did to us, but I do understand why you did it.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: I thought you might like some company.
SEVEN: Why?
NAOMI: Because of what happened with the drones.
SEVEN: I see that word travels quickly.
NAOMI: It's a small ship. I thought maybe you might want to spend some time with family.

[Shuttlecraft]
TORRES: Torres to Voyager. I could use a little help here.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): What's your status?
TORRES: I'm approaching your position, but that ion storm blew out my deflector field. I've lost helm control and I'm venting plasma from the port nacelle.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We're modifying a tractor pulse to slow you down.
TORRES: Acknowledged.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): The arresting fields are in place. You're clear to land.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Hold on, B'Elanna. This is going to be bumpy.
PARIS: B'Elanna? Are you alive?
TORRES: You tell me.
PARIS: You've got a mild concussion.
TORRES: That's the best thing that's happened to me all day.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: When I give you an order, I expect you to follow it. I told you to return to Voyager, not chase the probe into the center of an ion storm.
TORRES: We only have one multispatial probe. I didn't want to lose it.
JANEWAY: We only have one B'Elanna Torres. I don't want to lose her, either.
TORRES: Understood.
JANEWAY: Lanna, I'm glad you made it back in one piece,
TORRES: Did you just call me Lanna?
JANEWAY: I suppose I did.
TORRES: That's what my mother used to call me.
JANEWAY: Well then, I'm in good company.

[Torres' quarters]
TORRES: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Feeling better?
TORRES: I've felt worse.
CHAKOTAY: I found something you might be interested in. It's what my ancestors called a monkey wrench. It was lodged in your port nacelle.
TORRES: How did it get there?
CHAKOTAY: Judging by your sensor logs, it looks like you ran into it after your deflector field collapsed, but the big question is, how did it get in this quadrant?
TORRES: What do you mean?
TORRES: What? It's Klingon!
CHAKOTAY: And it's old. That's about all we know. Looks like the Klingons beat Starfleet to the Delta Quadrant by a few hundred years. You may be holding the most important archeological find in Klingon history.
TORRES: Remind me to plant a flag on behalf of the Empire. You know, the simplest explanation is that the Borg assimilated a Bird of Prey somewhere in the Alpha Quadrant and they blew it out an airlock on their way home.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe so. In any case, it makes a nice souvenir.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Harry, it bled. Ut screamed. There's got to be some explanation.
KIM: Hey, I've got one for you. You hit your head harder than you thought.
TORRES: I wasn't hallucinating. Now run a submolecular scan.
KIM: How many more scans are we going to run? There's nothing there. No fluid or vapor residue.
TORRES: We may find some irregularities at the atomic level.
KIM: It's a hunk of metal. What you heard may have had nothing to do with this artifact. Maybe the comm. system picked up some stray signal from a pulsar. I don't know.
TORRES: A pulsar that speaks Klingon?
KIM: Okay, B'Elanna, there probably is some explanation for what happened. But it's oh three hundred hours. I'm tired, you're tired. Let's just stick this thing in a containment field and deal with it in the morning.
NEELIX: Ah! Just the Daughter of the Empire I've been looking for. I wanted to be the first to congratulate you on your discovery of the Klingon artifact.
TORRES: Neelix, I ran into it with a shuttle.
NEELIX: Some of the greatest discoveries in Klingon history were accidents. When Sarpek the Fearless unearthed the Knife of Kirom he was searching for his lost targ. Isn't that amazing? I've been doing some research.
TORRES: Why?
NEELIX: Well, I'm planning a celebration. This must be the treasure.
TORRES: Neelix, look, I appreciate your enthusiasm, but since I'm the only Klingon on board, there's really no point in throwing a party.
NEELIX: Oh, nonsense. This artifact isn't just a testament to Klingon spirit. It's a piece of the Alpha Quadrant. A symbol of Voyager's home. And that's just as worthy of celebration and song as finding some old knife.
KIM: The man's got a point.
NEELIX: And besides, I've already replicated five barrels of bloodwine. I'm not going to let them go to waste. Festivities begin at nineteen hundred hours. Oh, er, I almost forgot. As guest of honor, you're going to be expected to say a few words on behalf of your people.
KIM: It sounds like you've got a big day ahead of you. You should probably get some rest.
TORRES: All right, all right, let's call it a night.
KIM: Thank you.

[Tuvok's quarters]
TUVOK: Do not underestimate the power of the mind. The artifact was a catalyst for your already active imagination. It served as an unwelcome reminder of your ancestry. The self-loathing you experience when you look in the mirror and see a Klingon.
TORRES: Who said anything about self-loathing?
TUVOK: You despise being Klingon. It's no secret. What you experienced in your quarters was a subconscious manifestation of that hatred. The blood in your veins, the voices of your ancestors, all symbols of your Klingon heritage.
TORRES: And when the blood disappeared that was, what, me trying to vaporize that part of myself?
TUVOK: Yes, but the essence of who you are, the artifact itself, remained.
TORRES: And the moral of the story is?
TUVOK: Quite simple. That despite your efforts to become something else, whether it be Starfleet or Maquis, your Klingon nature continues to assert itself.
TORRES: That's an intriguing theory.
TUVOK: Perhaps we should forego your meditation in favor of a different exercise.
TORRES: Fine by me.
TORRES: This should be interesting.
TUVOK: Feel the weight of the bat'leth in your hands. Describe the first thought that enters your mind.
TORRES: It's a clumsy weapon. Overstated, like everything else Klingon.
TUVOK: You can't see the elegance of its design because of your hatred.
TORRES: I don't hate Klingons.
TUVOK: It's a warrior's blade, crafted for precision and balance. Observe.
TORRES: Is this your idea of therapy?
TUVOK: Listen to yourself whine like a Ferengi.
TORRES: PetaQ!
TUVOK: You're not worthy of the blood in your veins. A true Klingon would try to kill me where I stand.
TORRES: What the hell has gotten into you?
TUVOK: This exercise is over. You are dismissed, Lieutenant, and take your dishonor with you.

[Mess hall]
EMH: 'ej HumtaH 'ej DechtaH 'Iw. And the blood was ankle-deep. 'ej Doq SodTah ghoSpa' Sqral bIQtiQ. And the river Skral ran crimson red.
SEVEN: I fail to see the merit of learning a Klingon drinking song.
EMH: It's not about drinking, Seven. It's about saluting the noble deeds of our ancestors and honoring those who fell in battle. Think, Qapla'. Think, long live the Empire!
SEVEN: Think again.
EMH: Okay, so I'm overdoing it a bit. But try to get into the spirit of the occasion.
SEVEN: Very well. 'ej HumtaH 'ej DechtaH 'Iw.
BOTH: 'ej Doq SodTah ghoSpa' Sqral bIQtiQ 'e' pa' jaj law' mo' jaj puS jaj qeylIS molar MIgh HoHchu'.
NEELIX: Gagh, anyone? Sop joq jih yuv gagh drek.
TORRES: He said, eat this or he'll force it down the gullet of your corpse.
NEELIX: No offense.
PARIS: Oh, none taken. So this is replicated, right?
NEELIX: Unfortunately.
PARIS: And how do you get it to move?
NEELIX: I used a kinesthetic agent to give it a little oomph.
TORRES: Is it just me, or has everyone gone Klingon-happy?
PARIS: Oh, come on, B'Elanna. They're all doing this for you.
TORRES: Well then, they don't know me very well, and if you even think of joining in on this embrace your heritage nonsense, I swear, I'll rip out your tongue and wear it as a belt.
PARIS: Oh no, there's not a lot of Klingon in you.
TORRES: I inherited the forehead and the bad attitude. That's it. She would have loved all this.
PARIS: Your mother?
TORRES: She was so obsessed with Klingon ritual, myths. It used to drive my father and me crazy. Did I ever tell you that she put me in a Klingon monastery?
PARIS: You're kidding.
TORRES: It was after their marriage ended. She pulled me out of the Federation school in order to teach me honor and discipline.
PARIS: Out of the plasma cooker, into the fire.
TORRES: She prayed to Kahless every day to guide me in the ways of the warrior. I guess he wasn't listening.
JANEWAY: Ladies and gentlemen. Could I have your attention, please? I hate to interrupt the festivities, but before I turn the floor over to our resident Klingon, I'd like to say a few words. This is a great day for the Klingon Empire. A day when we honor their ancestors, those warriors whose deeds of valor and glory led them to the Delta Quadrant.
JANEWAY: May they live on in song and story.
TORRES: Captain!
BROK'TAN: Legh soh va gre'thor.

[Barge of the Dead - on deck]
TORRES: Where am I?
BROK'TAN: Silence The dead ask no questions.
TORRES: Computer, end program.
BROK'TAN: Qem nuh meq.
TORRES: Let go of me!
TORRES: Wait, wait.
BROK'TAN: Uch ghah!
TORRES: No, wait.
BROK'TAN: She won't take the mark.
TORRES: What the hell is going on?
BROK'TAN: Qus'daq ba'. Qus'daq na ghah.
TORRES: Where am I?
HIJ'QA: You should know. You're half Klingon.
TORRES: Enlighten me.
HIJ'QA: This is the Barge of the Dead. Our dishonored souls are being taken to Gre'thor.
TORRES: Klingon Hell is a myth.
HIJ'QA: That's what I thought. Just a foolish superstition. Imagine my surprise.
TORRES: But I was on Voyager with my crew.
HIJ'QA: That was the naj, the dream before dying. When we can't accept that we've died, we create the illusion of life to hold on to.
TORRES: He slaughtered my friends.
HIJ'QA: No, he slaughtered the dream. He dragged you from the illusion of life. This is where you belong.
VOICES (voiceover): Hij'qa. Mag hoshonah nes'a Gre'thor. Jih neh. Jih ghaj nug soh neh. Jih qhaj nug soh. Nug soh los. Vav, nuqdaq sho? Nuqdaq' oh puchpa'e'
TORRES: What is that?
HIJ'QA: It's the Kos'Karii. They'll try to lure you to them. Don't listen.
VOICES (voiceover): Duj tlvoqtah. Batlh daqawlu'tah. Tugh!
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): B'Elanna, are you there?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Lieutenant, can you hear me?
PARIS (voiceover): Help us find you.
TORRES: Tom? Chakotay?
HIJ'QA: It's not your friends.
HIJ'QA: There are things here worse than death.
BROK'TAN: You.
KORTAR: Is this the mongrel child you spoke of.
BROK'TAN: Yes. The one whose face would not bear the mark.
KORTAR: B'Elanna, daughter of Miral. It's not your time.
TORRES: How do you know my name?
KORTAR: You've come close to boarding this ship many times. I remember the first. You were a child. Your mother took you to the Sea of Gatan. Your curiosity was as deep as the water.
TORRES: I fell in. I almost drowned.
KORTAR: When your mother breathed life back into your lungs, she told you about me.
TORRES: So you're supposed to be Kortar.
KORTAR: Ah. You remember me.
TORRES: I remember the myth of Kortar, the first Klingon. He destroyed the gods who created him.
KORTAR: And as punishment, I was condemned to ferry the souls of the dishonored to Gre'thor.
TORRES: I may have believed in you as a child, but not anymore.
KORTAR: If you didn't still believe, you wouldn't be here.
KORTAR: Foolish girl.
KORTAR: You cannot harm me. I'm already dead.
TORRES: What's happening?
KORTAR: The soul of another dishonored warrior is being delivered.
BROK'TAN: Kot'mah soh Gre'thor.
TORRES: Mother.

[Sickbay]
EMH: It's all right. You're safe.
PARIS: Your shuttle was drifting on the trailing edge of an ion storm. You lost life support. We found you just in time.
TORRES: But I got through the storm. I remember crashing into the shuttlebay.
EMH: When we tractored your shuttle back to Voyager, you were in a coma.
PARIS: We almost lost you.
TORRES: The Klingon artifact.
PARIS: Artifact?
TORRES: My hand.
EMH: You took quite a beating out there. More than your fair share of cuts and bruises.

[Torres' quarters]
TORRES: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: How are you feeling?
TORRES: Er, a little out of place.
CHAKOTAY: Would you like to talk about it?
TORRES: Yes. And no.
CHAKOTAY: Let me know when you decide.
TORRES: I don't know how to say this without sounding crazy.
CHAKOTAY: Try.
TORRES: Do you believe in an afterlife?
CHAKOTAY: I accept there are things in the universe than can't be scanned with a tricorder. What happened to you out there?
TORRES: I think I died. I died, and I was on the Barge of the Dead in the Klingon afterlife.
CHAKOTAY: Klingon mythology has been ingrained in you since you were a child. It's not surprising you experienced some of those images while you were unconscious.
TORRES: I saw my mother, Chakotay. If it was real, then she's dead.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, your mother, the Barge of the Dead, those are just symbols. It's your subconscious mind trying to tell you something.
TORRES: Tell me what? That my mother is going to hell?
CHAKOTAY: You need time to digest what you experienced. You have to interpret the symbols and search for their meaning.
TORRES: What if there is no symbolism to interpret? What if the afterlife is real? I'm an engineer. My whole life I've immersed myself in science and schematics. But what if it's time to start looking beyond that?
CHAKOTAY: My grandfather used to think he could transform himself into a wolf so that he could venture out to explore the spirit realm. It was real to him, as real as what your experience was to you, but that doesn't mean he grew hair all over his body and walked around on all fours.
TORRES: My mother has been on my mind a lot lately. We just had a big anniversary. It's been ten years since we talked. But it was so real. I could taste the blood in the air. I could feel the wind. I was seasick from the rocking of the boat.

[Engineering]
PARIS: Hi.
TORRES: Hi.
PARIS: What are you reading?
TORRES: The paq'batlh. It's a sacred Klingon scroll.
PARIS: Find anything?
TORRES: You don't want to know.
PARIS: Oh, come on. It can't be that bad.
TORRES: You want to bet? I found out why my mother is on her way to Gre'thor. It's because I sent her there.
PARIS: What do you mean?
TORRES: The sins of the child. She's being punished for my dishonor. I turned my back on everything Klingon, and now she has to pay the price.
PARIS: B'Elanna, you can't even be sure your mother is dead, much less blame yourself for what happens to her in some afterlife.
TORRES: Look at this. The eleventh tome of Klavek. It's a story about Kahless returning from the dead still bearing a wound from the afterlife. A warning that what he experienced wasn't a dream. The same thing happened to me.
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: And the only reason Kahless was in the afterlife to begin with was to rescue his brother from the Barge of the Dead and deliver him to Sto-Vo-Kor.
PARIS: Okay.
TORRES: Don't you see? I have a chance to rescue my mother, if I can accept responsibility for her dishonor before she passes through the gates of Gre'thor. I have to go back.
PARIS: Well, wait a minute. What do you mean, go back?
TORRES: I can't let her suffer for what I've done. It's the only way.
PARIS: B'Elanna, I respect what you believe in, but you're starting to scare me.
TORRES: I'm scaring myself.

[Briefing room]
TORRES: It's a controlled procedure. I'll be under constant supervision. The Doctor can simulate the conditions of the ion storm. He's agreed to help me, but only with your permission.
JANEWAY: I'm still not inclined to grant your request.
TORRES: Are you telling me that I can't pursue my spiritual beliefs?
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, I'm not going to let you turn this into a debate about freedom of worship.
TORRES: But that's what it is.
JANEWAY: There's a limit to how far I'll let religious practices go aboard this ship. If your belief system required you to sacrifice a child to your gods, I wouldn't allow that either.
TORRES: That's an absurd example.
JANEWAY: You want to simulate a near death experience so you can revisit the Barge of Death, and you're telling me what's absurd? Bottom line, B'Elanna. I'm not going to let you risk your life for this.
TORRES: Captain, please.
JANEWAY: Request denied.
TORRES: What I do with my own life is one thing, but to know that I have condemned my mother. That because of what I've done, she's
JANEWAY: I appreciate what you're trying to say, B'Elanna, but whatever you experienced, it wasn't real.
TORRES: It doesn't matter if you think it was real. It was real to me. Whatever it was, it changed me. I can't ignore that. I need to confront what's happened.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry.
TORRES: You know, you're just like her.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant?
TORRES: My mother. You're as dedicated to Starfleet principles as she was to Klingon honor. I know that we haven't always seen eye to eye, but despite our differences you helped me become a good officer. And I'd like to think that you're proud of me for it.
JANEWAY: I am.
TORRES: My mother never had the chance to be proud of me. I'd like her to know me the way you do. I don't want her to die thinking of me as a disgrace. You have to let me do this.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: I can't believe the captain is allowing this. One minute you're in a coma, the next you're a born-again Klingon? I just don't get it.
TORRES: I'm not sure I get it, either. I just know this is something I have to do.
PARIS: There must be an easier way for you to explore your spirituality. Go to church, or something?
TORRES: It wouldn't be enough.
PARIS: Look, I'll read the scrolls, I'll learn Klingon. We'll figure this out together.
TORRES: Next time.
PARIS: I just hope there is a next time.
TORRES: There will be.
JANEWAY: Report.
EMH: I've examined the sensor logs from the shuttle mission. I should be able to recreate the exact conditions that triggered her near-death experience.
JANEWAY: Good. B'Elanna?
TORRES: I'm ready.
PARIS: Be careful.
JANEWAY: You'll have an hour to do whatever it is you need to do. At the first sign of trouble, we're bringing you out. Understood?
EMH: Computer, erect an isolation field around the surgical bay. Decrease oxygen concentration within the force field by twenty seven percent. Begin ionizing the enclosed atmosphere to five thousand particles per cubic meter. She's unconscious.
PARIS: Neural activity is decreasing to eighty seven percent. Sixty two percent. Synaptic function is failing.
EMH: Compensating.
PARIS: Neural activity is nominal.
JANEWAY: She's not breathing.
EMH: She's still alive. Her lungs are taking in just enough oxygen to keep her brain from necrotising.
JANEWAY: Qapla', B'Elanna.

[Barge of the Dead - on deck]
BROK'TAN (voiceover): Sus'a g gre'thor qay.

[Barge of the Dead - below decks]
TORRES: Mother.
MIRAL: Stay away. You are an illusion. You're a Kos'Karii trying to lure me away
TORRES: Mother, it's me. It's me.
MIRAL: B'Elanna? Then you died as well?
TORRES: I've come to lift your dishonor.
MIRAL: But you don't believe in Sto-Vo-Kor.
TORRES: A lot's happened since the last time I saw you. I've changed.
MIRAL: Not enough. It was you who brought this damnation upon me.
TORRES: If you hadn't tried to force me to become a warrior
MIRAL: I tried to guide you in the ways of a Klingon.
TORRES: You tried a little too hard.
MIRAL: If you had listened to me when you were younger, we wouldn't be on the Barge of the Dead. You were always running away.
TORRES: You drove me away. The same way you drove away my father.
MIRAL: He abandoned us.
TORRES: You pushed him to the point where he couldn't bear to be around anything Klingon, including me.
MIRAL: I wanted to give you honor. And if you had understood that, I would be not be on my way to Gre'thor.
TORRES: We're on the Barge of the Dead and we're still having the same argument we were having ten years ago. Look, if I have dishonored you, I am truly sorry.
MIRAL: Are you? You have too much anger in your heart to be sorry.
TORRES: Oh, we don't have time for this if we're going to perform the transference.
MIRAL: Is that how you intend to lift my dishonor? By taking my place?
TORRES: Oh, don't worry. I have no intention of being on this barge when it gets to Gre'thor. We've got just enough time to perform the ritual before my crew resuscitates me.
MIRAL: Oh. I should have known you'd choose the easy way.
TORRES: What are you talking about? Do you know the risks I've taken to save you?
MIRAL: You still understand nothing about being a Klingon. I would rather face damnation with what little honor you have left me, than cheat my way into Sto-Vo-Kor.
BROK'TAN: There she is. Bring them.

[Barge of the Dead - on deck]
KORTAR: The mongrel child has returned.
TORRES: I'm here to take my mother's place.
MIRAL: B'Elanna!
KORTAR: You wish to claim her dishonor as your own?
TORRES: Yes.
KORTAR: You're willing to die for her?
TORRES: Yes. Release her to Sto-Vo-Kor.
MIRAL: No!
KORTAR: Keep her quiet!
BROK'TAN: Silence.
KORTAR: It's not your decision. She has the right to reclaim your honor. Once we've reached Gre'thor and you are within its gates, I will release her.
TORRES: No. Now.
KORTAR: You're very impatient. Time must be slipping away in the living world. You're concerned that your friends will revive you before you complete your deception. Did you really think that I could be fooled so easily?
TORRES: I will die for her. No tricks, no games. I will take her place honorably, like a Klingon.
KORTAR: If you choose this path, your friends will not be able to save you.
MIRAL: No! I forbid it!
TORRES: I understand.
KORTAR: Your dishonor has been lifted. Sto-Vo-Kor awaits you.
MIRAL: I will not abandon my daughter.
KORTAR: She has made the choice. Go!
KORTAR: Daughter of Miral, embrace your fate.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: Her neural patterns are breaking down.
EMH: I'm initiating emergency resuscitation. Vent the ionized particles. Twenty milligrams cordrazine, now.
JANEWAY: I'm deactivating the forcefield.

[Gre'thor Sickbay]
EMH: Welcome to Gre'thor.
TORRES: This isn't Gre'thor.
EMH: Oh, I assure you it is. You've taken your mark.
TORRES: What is this, some kind of a joke?
NEELIX: This is no laughing matter.
EMH: You've met Mister Neelix, our ambassador to the recently deceased. Questions, comments, suggestions, he's your man.
NEELIX: If you'll follow me.
EMH: By the way, I'll be performing an aria from Berlioz's Faust tomorrow night in Holodeck two. Feel free to stop by.

[Gre'thor Corridor]
NEELIX: Fifteen decks. Computers augmented with bioneural circuitry. Top cruising speed, warp nine point nine seven five. Not that you'll be going anywhere.
TORRES: No Fek'lhr? No Cavern of Despair?
NEELIX: Don't need them.
TORRES: I don't consider Voyager hell.
NEELIX: Are you sure? Have you ever been truly happy here? If you thought fifty years aboard this ship would be difficult, try eternity.

[Gre'thor Mess hall]
ALL: 'ej HumtaH 'ej DechtaH 'Iw 'ej Doq SodTah ghoSpa' Sqral bIQtiQ 'e' pa' jaj law' mo' jaj puS.
JANEWAY: This is a great day for B'Elanna Torres. A day when we pay tribute to her dishonor.

[Sickbay]
EMH: She's not responding to the cordrazine.
JANEWAY: Neural activity at forty eight percent, thirty seven.
PARIS: We're losing her.
EMH: We have to stabilize her synaptic functions. I'm attempting a direct neural resequencing.

[Gre'thor Mess hall]
JANEWAY: B'Elanna's misdeeds have led her to Gre'thor. She comes with no valor, no glory, nothing to celebrate in song and story.
NEELIX: You really have no one to blame but yourself.
KIM: You've kept us all at arm's length. Even Tom, who you claim to love.
PARIS: Hear, hear.
SEVEN: I tried to assist you in making Engineering more efficient, but you resisted. You're stubborn.
EMH: She inherited that from her mother, along with the forehead.
CHAKOTAY: What do you think of the afterlife so far?
TORRES: It's not exactly what I had in mind.
CHAKOTAY: Are you interpreting all the symbols? Searching your subconscious for their meaning?
TUVOK: Lieutenant Torres. Defend yourself.

[Barge of the Dead - below decks]
TORRES: Captain?
TORRES: What are you still doing here? I released you to Sto-Vo-Kor.
MIRAL: You can't free me until you free yourself.
TORRES: I don't understand.
MIRAL: You never did.
TORRES: I did everything that the ritual told me to do. I came back for you.
MIRAL: Forget the ritual. It's meaningless.
TORRES: Meaningless? I died for you.
MIRAL: No, you didn't. It's not your time. You still don't understand this journey.
TORRES: Then tell me.
MIRAL: Request denied.
TORRES: What do you want?
MIRAL: Who are you asking?
TORRES: You. Kahless. The tooth fairy. Anybody who will tell me what I am supposed to do.
MIRAL: You are the only one who can answer that question. Choose to live, B'Elanna.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: Neural activity's at twenty three percent.
EMH: Initiate cortical stimulation. Pulses at fifty millijoules.
PARIS: No effect.
EMH: Increase to seventy millijoules.
JANEWAY: Come on, B'Elanna.

[Barge of the Dead - on deck]
TUVOK: Defend yourself.
TORRES: You want me to fight? You want me to be a good little Klingon? Is that it?
JANEWAY: You've let your anger consume you. Now it's consuming us.
SEVEN: She's condemned us all.
EMH: Misery loves company.
TORRES: Get away from me.
KIM: Or what? You'll kill us where we stand?
TORRES: Tell me what you want me to be. A good Starfleet officer? A good Maquis? Lover? Daughter? Just tell me what you want from me.
MIRAL: We don't want anything from you, B'Elanna.
JANEWAY: We only want you.
NEELIX: We're not your enemies.
PARIS: Defend yourself.
TORRES: I don't know how. I'm so tired of fighting.
JANEWAY: We know.
MIRAL: You've taken the first step of your journey.
TORRES: And what about you?
MIRAL: We will see each other again.
TORRES: In Sto-Vo-Kor.
MIRAL: Yes, in Sto-Vo-Kor. Or, maybe, when you get home.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: Mother? Oh god, I'm alive.
JANEWAY: Welcome back.

[Mess hall]
EMH: Somewhere, in that totality known as the universe, is a galaxy called the Milky Way. Tucked into the corner of that galaxy is a planet named Earth. On that planet is a city called Mantua. Go straight ahead past the fountain, turn right, then left, then right again. You'll find yourself walking along the water, listening, as a man sings of his beloved's unfaithful heart. And even the fish begin to weep. Quando, la donna e mobile. La donne e mobile, qual piuma al a vento, muta d'accento, e di pensiero. Sempre un'amabile, leggiadro viso, in pianto o in riso, e mensognero. La donna e mobile, qual pium al vento, muta d'accento, e di pensier. E di pensier.
PARIS: Tuvok?
EMH: E di pensier!
PARIS: Tuvok!
JANEWAY: Janeway to Security. Get a team to the mess hall right away.
EMH: Stand back. He's been seized by the pon farr. A neurochemical imbalance is driving him to mate. We won't be able to reason with him. Tuvok, I understand. You are a Vulcan man. You have just gone without for seven years about. Paris, please find a way to load a hypospray. I will give you the sign. Just aim for his behind. Hormones are raging, Synapses blazing, It's all so veeee
EMH: Eeery illogical. Illogical. Illogical.
ALL: Bravo! Bravo!
TORRES: Doctor?

[Doctor's office]
TORRES: Doctor? Hello?
TORRES: Maybe I'd better run a diagnostic on your hearing subroutines.
EMH: My hearing's fine. I was just letting my mind wander, that's all.
TORRES: If you're not working on anything, you should deactivate yourself. Save us the energy.
EMH: Wait a second, I thought I was scheduled to go on the away team.
TORRES: Well, the planet looks safe on the long range sensors. Any medical problems, and we can use the transporter. But, take a look at those scans and see if there's anything we might have missed.
EMH: Lieutenant, I wanted to go on the away team. There's a canyon on that planet I'd like to investigate.
TORRES: I've already handed out assignments. Next time. If you'd like, I'll snap a few images for you.
EMH: Don't bother.
TORRES: Suit yourself.
EMH: I'll just use my imagination.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Where did that come from?
JANEWAY: Good question. It didn't show up on sensors until a few minutes ago.
CHAKOTAY: T class nebula. A thousand kilometer diameter. Hydrogen, helium, argon.
JANEWAY: Nothing too dramatic.
CHAKOTAY: If you want some drama, take a look at this.
JANEWAY: To Captain Kathryn Janeway, Starship Voyager. From Emergency Medical Hologram, Starship Voyager. Topic, status of Emergency Medical Hologram, Starship Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: He's filing a formal grievance.
JANEWAY: Regarding?
CHAKOTAY: His treatment by the crew. There's also a paragraph about his future on Voyager, and a proposal for his advancement.
JANEWAY: Failure to acknowledge sentience. Rude behavior. What's this? A request to be made Captain in the event of a catastrophic emergency? He's serious.
CHAKOTAY: Dead serious and he wants a formal response, for the record.
TUVOK: Protocol allows for Commander Chakotay or myself to address his demands, if the captain would prefer.
JANEWAY: No, I'll take care of it. I don't want anybody to be uncomfortable on this ship. I guess we should all try to be more considerate of his feelings.
PARIS: Captain, he does it to himself. He's Chief Medical Officer. Is it our fault that's not enough for him?
JANEWAY: Resume course toward the planet. Chakotay, you have the bridge. I've got a formal response to draft.

[Overlooker ship]
OVERLOOKER: What category did I assign that vessel?
PHLOX: Unacceptable risk.
OVERLOOKER: Correct. And what was my justification for that decision?
PHLOX: The ship appears in none of our databases. Initial attempts to scan the interior failed.
OVERLOOKER: Then why are you wasting our resources?
PHLOX: I think I can penetrate the hull, using a microtunneling sensor.
OVERLOOKER: And observe the interior one molecule at a time? There are other potential targets that must be surveyed.
PHLOX: If I could tap into a data transfer conduit, I'd be able to reach their main computer core. That would tell me all we need to know about their tactical systems, in theory.
OVERLOOKER: We could be detected. They may not like being spied upon.
PHLOX: I think I've been very careful avoiding it. I'll take every precaution, I promise.
OVERLOOKER: Unacceptable risk.
PHLOX: I've already transmitted my proposal to the Hierarchy. They should be responding momentarily.
OVERLOOKER: Do you have something you'd like to say?
DEVRO: No.
OVERLOOKER: The Hierarchy cannot be bothered with every ill-conceived notion that you
PHLOX: They've approved. I'd better get started.
DEVRO: You're too confrontational. He'll report you.
PHLOX: Huh. Acceptable risk.

[Briefing room]
TORRES: The layer of antonium runs right along the edge of the canyon.
SEVEN: My scans show geological instability within one hundred meters of the target location.
PARIS: I could put the Flyer down just outside of that.
NEELIX: I don't know, Tom. That might be a little too far.
PARIS: What's the matter, Neelix? Afraid of a little exercise?
TORRES: I think we could handle a hundred meter stroll.
PARIS: I have to agree.
NEELIX: Maybe getting there. It's coming back I'm worried about. We'll be loaded down with ore. If the ground is unstable
SEVEN: I suggest limiting the team members to twenty kilograms. Preliminary scans indicate the crust is dense enough to support that weight.
PARIS: You might try carrying a transport enhancer to the site.
NEELIX: That's not a bad idea. We'll beam the ore back to the Delta Flyer and we won't have to carry anything.
TORRES: You know, this mission is starting to look a little more dangerous than we thought. Maybe we do need the Doctor to come along. If one of us fell through the crust there could be injuries.
SEVEN: I require his assistance in Astrometrics.
TORRES: What for?
SEVEN: That's none of your business.
TORRES: I think it is.
JANEWAY: Oh!
NEELIX: What's wrong, Captain?
JANEWAY: It's nothing, really. An old Academy injury. It flares up every now and then. I've learned to live with it, but maybe you should stay here and have a look. Right there.
TORRES: Get away from him.
JANEWAY: You are dismissed. Doctor? Doctor?
EMH: Yes, Captain?
JANEWAY: Let's talk about these demands of yours.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: I've given you a great deal of freedom on this ship.
EMH: I'm not disputing that.
JANEWAY: But you're not satisfied, either.
EMH: I should be allowed to participate and advance according to my abilities, like any other member of this crew.
JANEWAY: You should also know your limits.
EMH: My program can be expanded indefinitely. I don't have limits.
JANEWAY: Maybe, but we all have primary responsibilities. Yours is Sickbay.
EMH: I'm a computer program. Multiple tasking is second nature to me.
JANEWAY: This proposal of yours to be made a, what? What did you call it?
EMH: ECH. Emergency Command Hologram.
JANEWAY: In principle, it's an interesting idea. A backup captain in case I'm incapacitated and the command structure breaks down. But expanding your program would take months of work.
EMH: The lives of the crew may depend on it someday.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid the answer's no, Doctor. However, as part of my formal response I have recommended that Starfleet assign a team of Engineers to consider your proposal. When we get back to the Alpha Quadrant, I'll pass it along.
EMH: Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Doctor.

[Cargo Bay two]
JANEWAY: Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce the Emergency Command Hologram.

[Overlooker ship]
PHLOX: I've tried to access their internal sensors, but I couldn't get past the security encryption. So, I found something even better. A holographic crewman. I've tapped into his cognitive subroutines. We can now monitor everything he's experiencing.
DEVRO: It's like having an agent on board.
JANEWAY (screen): To the ECH.
EMH (screen): Captain, this is such an honor, but if you don't mind my saying, hardly a surprise.
PHLOX: Allow me to introduce the Doctor. He's a computer program, a sentient piece of holographic technology. And he is Voyager's medical officer.
OVERLOOKER: Voyager?
PHLOX: That's the name of the ship. I've only been observing the Doctor for a matter of hours, and I've already learned more about this vessel than I did in three days of sensor sweeps.
OVERLOOKER: Elaborate.
PHLOX: The reason Voyager is not in our database is because they are not from this quadrant. They're lost. Alone.
OVERLOOKER: No backup vessel?
PHLOX: Uh huh.
OVERLOOKER: No one to contact for help?
PHLOX: Precisely. Another few hours of observation and I will know all we need to know about them. Defenses, weapons, crew complement, everything.
OVERLOOKER: From monitoring one individual? Unlikely.
PHLOX: Actually, it is very likely. The social structure on Voyager is, is much different than ours.
OVERLOOKER: How so?
PHLOX: This is my observation post. I have a single function. But the Doctor does much more than just practice medicine. He has access to the entire ship, and he seems to be an expert on everything. In fact, the Captain just gave him authorisation to command the bridge! It was a very exciting moment.
OVERLOOKER: Why aren't you monitoring him now?
PHLOX: The link drops out intermittently, but it should be re-established in a few minutes.
OVERLOOKER: Maintain your surveillance.

[Sickbay]
EMH: This'll take care of any potential allergens in the planet's atmosphere. I'll monitor your medical status from the bridge, but I don't anticipate any problems. Since I'm not going, I wonder if you'd mind snapping a few holo-images for me while you're down there.
NEELIX: Gladly.
EMH: Tell me something, Mister Neelix. Do you daydream?
NEELIX: On Talaxia, we have a saying. The dream dreams the dreamer.
EMH: Care to translate?
NEELIX: We like to think that fantasies and daydreams come from someplace else. Another land. They slip into our minds and whisper about things we never imagined.
EMH: A strange notion.
NEELIX: Do you daydream, Doctor?
EMH: Of course not. I'm a computer program. I prefer wide shots, Mister Neelix. If you're feeling creative, throw in a little ultraviolet.
NEELIX: Will do.

[Bridge]
KIM: Voyager to Delta Flyer. Report.
PARIS (voiceover): We're approaching the canyon. Whew! What a view!
EMH: I'm sure it is.
JANEWAY: Put us in a synchronous orbit above their landing coordinates.
PARIS (voiceover): Voyager, mayday!
JANEWAY: What's wrong?
PARIS (voiceover): We've been hit. I'm taking us into the canyon.
JANEWAY: Harry?
KIM: I don't know what happened to them.
TUVOK: I am picking up a vessel, Captain. It's Borg.
JANEWAY: Red alert. On screen. Battle stations.
TUVOK: Captain. You must relieve me of duty at once.
SEVEN: An assimilation virus has penetrated our defenses.
CHAKOTAY: We're becoming drones.
JANEWAY: Hard to starboard. Reinforce the shields.
KIM: Incoming fire.
KIM: Doctor.
EMH: Computer, activate the ECH.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.
COMPUTER: Transferring all systems to your command. You have the bridge.
EMH: Indeed. Shields to maximum. Photon torpedoes, full volley. Fire. Computer, report.
COMPUTER: Enemy shields are intact.
BORG (voiceover): We are the Borg.
EMH: I know very well who you are. Stand down your weapons.
BORG (voiceover): State your designation.
EMH: Emergency Command Hologram, at your service.
BORG (voiceover): Designation unknown.
EMH: Not for long.
SEVEN: Doctor.
COMPUTER: Warning, primary shields are failing.
EMH: This is the last time I'm going to ask you. Stand down your weapons. Turn back while you still can.
BORG (voiceover): You will be assimilated.
EMH: Over my dead program. Computer, activate the photonic cannon.
COMPUTER: The photonic cannon is online.
EMH: Fire.
KIM: Doctor, can you confirm? The readings, Doctor.
EMH: Um, er, er. Readings. Er, confirm, of course. Er, the away team's physiologies are within acceptable parameters. All life signs stable.
KIM: You're okay to proceed, Tom.
PARIS (voiceover): Understood. We'll contact you again when we reach the site.

[Overlooker ship]
PHLOX: Voyager will not be an easy target. It is armed with something called a photonic cannon. I watched them destroy a Borg sphere with a single volley.
OVERLOOKER: There are no reports of Borg in this region.
PHLOX: I saw it with my own eyes.
OVERLOOKER: Did you check for debris?
PHLOX: The ship was annihilated. There was nothing left for the sensors to pick up.
OVERLOOKER: Continue.
PHLOX: Their captain was disabled in the attack. The hologram is now in command. He's an impressive individual. A physician, an engineer, a warrior. And very attractive to the females. We must at all cost try to avoid a direct confrontation with him. I recommend a type three stealth assault.
OVERLOOKER: The Hierarchy approves. Prepare for a stealth assault, type three. Scan for Borg. We don't want any last minute surprises. Or mistakes.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Doctor? Can I have a word with you?
EMH: I know I let my attention drift a little on the bridge, but I assure you
CHAKOTAY: Are you kidding? That was incredible. I just wanted to congratulate you.
EMH: For what, exactly?
CHAKOTAY: The Borg will have to think twice about attacking Voyager again. Nice work.
EMH: Computer, locate Commander Chakotay.
COMPUTER: Commander Chakotay is in his quarters.
CHAKOTAY: Something wrong?

[Engineering]
TORRES: What were you trying to do?
EMH: I've been experimenting with introducing a new function into my program. Cognitive projections. Daydreaming. I wanted to be able to daydream.
SEVEN: An inefficient activity.
KIM: We all do it now and then, Seven. Why not the Doctor?
EMH: My thought exactly.
TORRES: So what's the problem?
EMH: The algorithms are malfunctioning. I'm starting to daydream whether I want to or not.
TORRES: They say a doctor who operates on himself has a petaQ for a patient.
SEVEN: I can help him.
TORRES: I'm sure you can.
SEVEN: The Doctor and I are going to Sickbay.
TORRES: Any excuse to be alone with him, eh, Seven?
SEVEN: Assimilation is an unpleasant fate.
TORRES: Is that a threat?
KIM: This isn't possible. The warp containment field is failing.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in thirty seconds.
TORRES: Try stabilizing the antimatter flow.
SEVEN: The control linkage is down.
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach a lot sooner than you think.
TORRES: We've got to get someone inside the warp core. Try to eject it manually.
SEVEN: No one could survive the current level of plasma radiation.
BOTH: The Doctor.
EMH: This isn't real, is it?
KIM: Doc, you're the only one who can help us!
COMPUTER: Warning. Last chance to be a hero, Doctor. Get going.
KIM: Here's the problem. The new algorithms weren't isolated properly. They've branched into his perceptual subroutines. Doc, why don't we take a closer look at the matrix and. What are you doing?
EMH: I have to eject the core.
KIM: What?
SEVEN: Deactivate his program.
TORRES: No, it will damage his matrix.
EMH: Don't try to stop me.
KIM: Let's take him to Sickbay.
EMH: I have to. I have to save the ship. I have to save the ship. I have to save the ship!

[Sickbay]
EMH: You look lovely tonight, Seven. Where shall we go? That sounds wonderful.
TORRES: The new algorithms have completely taken over his program.
EMH: Ambassador!
JANEWAY: So now he's daydreaming constantly?
EMH: It's a photonic cannon. I designed it myself.
TORRES: He seems to be randomly jumping from one to the next.
EMH: Pardon me, Miss.
TORRES: I routed his subroutines to Holodeck one so Harry and Seven could monitor his fantasies.
JANEWAY: Do you think that's appropriate? They're his fantasies, and I promised him we'd show a little more consideration.
TORRES: It'll give us a better idea of what's going on, help us fix him.
EMH: Mister Neelix, how thoughtful. You baked me a cake. This won't get you out of your check-up.
KIM (voiceover): Kim to Sickbay.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Harry.
KIM (voiceover): You might want to have a look at this.
JANEWAY: We're on our way.

[Holodeck - Cargo Bay two]
EMH: Keep still, please.
HOLO-SEVEN: Anything you say, Doctor.
JANEWAY: He does the hands very well.
SEVEN: Apparently, he's had a great deal of practice. Look at these.
JANEWAY: I see.

[Holodeck - Bridge]
EMH: Computer. Activate the Emergency Command Hologram.
KIM: This is the part I like.
JANEWAY: Nice touch.
EMH: Bring the photonic cannon online.
JANEWAY: Photonic cannon?
KIM: A weapon of mass destruction. Invented by the Doctor, of course.
JANEWAY: Of course.
SEVEN: In many of his fantasies he takes command and saves the ship.
JANEWAY: I see.
KIM: Which means that particular algorithm is more easily accessible than the others.
TORRES: So, if we can isolate it, we might be able to stabilize his program.

[Holodeck - Mess hall]
HOLO-TORRES: Why do you torment me like this?
EMH: That was never my intention.
HOLO-TORRES: It wasn't?
EMH: I want you to be happy, B'Elanna.
HOLO-TORRES: Without you?
TORRES: What?
JANEWAY: Shush.
EMH: I'll always be fond of you. That will never change.
HOLO-TORRES: You can't just leave me. I couldn't bear to be alone.
EMH: Aren't you forgetting someone? He needs you, B'Elanna. Now more than ever.
HOLO-TORRES: Forget him. He's not half the man you are.
TORRES: I've seen enough of this.
KIM: All right, let's go back to Sickbay and try to isolate that algorithm.

[Holodeck - Cargo Bay two]
HOLO-JANEWAY: Congratulations.
EMH: Thank you for this opportunity, Captain. All I ever wanted was to live up to my full potential, to hone all my skills, expand my abilities, to help the people I love.

[Overlooker ship]
OVERLOOKER: What's the status?
PHLOX: I lost the signal again. I don't know what happened.
OVERLOOKER: Two assault vessels are on course to join us. Accurate information is essential.
PHLOX: The more I learn about Voyager, the more I wonder if it's worth the trouble.
OVERLOOKER: Clarify.
PHLOX: Launching an attack against such a heavily armed vessel carries a great risk, and for what? A little antimatter and some dilithium.
OVERLOOKER: Your survey indicated large quantities of both. We've already committed substantial resources to mounting this assault. Were you mistaken?
PHLOX: No, not at all. I'm just sounding a note of caution.
OVERLOOKER: If our boarding party doesn't find Voyager exactly as you've described it, the Hierarchy will be informed.
PHLOX: I understand. There has been no mistake.
OVERLOOKER: Then we'll proceed.
PHLOX: I've made a terrible mistake.
DEVRO: How terrible?
PHLOX: The Doctor was appearing in a different location every few seconds. It didn't seem possible, so I investigated a little further and I haven't been monitoring his perceptions, I've been watching his dreams, or his, his imaginings. I'm not sure which. But none of this is real. What am I going to do?

[Doctor's office]
JANEWAY: I came to check on your patient.
EMH: He's doing just fine, Captain. It took Lieutenant Torres half the night to stabilize my matrix, but I haven't had a single flight of fancy since. I apologize for altering my program without permission.
JANEWAY: At least there wasn't any permanent damage.
EMH: I'm afraid there was. I've been exposed, humiliated. Turned inside out for all the world to see. If I've lost your respect
JANEWAY: That will never happen. Certainly not because we've seen a few random fantasies. We all daydream, Doctor. It helps us imagine other possibilities in life. Just hold off until we've figured out a way for you to do it without damaging yourself, all right?

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Ship's status report. Federation law? Thinking about a career change?
JANEWAY: In a way. Not for me, though. I've been going over the legal precedents for granting command positions to holograms. There aren't any.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, this ship needs its Doctor. He should focus on what he was programmed for. Medical care.
JANEWAY: I think we've underestimated him because of our own human limitations. His full potential's unknown, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Would you be comfortable handing over your ship to a computer program?
JANEWAY: Well, I don't know if I'd take it that far.
CHAKOTAY: You might have to. He probably won't settle for less.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Oh, no.

[Daydream - Cargo Bay two]
NEELIX: Allow me to shake your hand. Congratulations.
PHLOX: Doctor, may I please have a word with you?.
EMH: I don't recall dreaming you up.
PHLOX: You didn't. I'm transmitting a simulation of myself into your program. But I am real.
EMH: Doctor to the bridge. I'm daydreaming again. Somebody deactivate me.
PHLOX: Voyager is about to be attacked.
EMH: Of course it is, unless the valiant Doctor swings into action, right?
PHLOX: Yes, yes, precisely.
EMH: A common theme in all my fantasies.
PHLOX: I reactivated your cognitive algorithms. I put you back into this fiction.
SEVEN: I'm ready to pose again tonight.
EMH: Here.
EMH: Why?
PHLOX: It was the only way for me to communicate with you.
EMH: I'm listening.
PHLOX: I'm a long range observer on an assault class vessel. I scan passing ships for technology and raw materials. When I find an acceptable target, we raid it.
EMH: You've been spying on us.
PHLOX: More to the point, on you. For several days I've been using a long range tunneling sensor to tap into your program. You were supposed to be our eyes and ears on Voyager. Instead, I got this.
EMH: My daydreams? You tapped into my daydreams? That's why my algorithms have been destabilizing.
PHLOX: My fault. I'm sorry.
EMH: Tell me about this attack.
PHLOX: My ship is less than an hour away. I can help you avoid a confrontation but you must do exactly what I say.
EMH: Why should you want to help us?
PHLOX: You don't understand. The Hierarchy does not tolerate mistakes or misinformation. If they learn of my error, I'll lose my livelihood.
EMH: Well, that's what you get for being a Peeping Tom.
PHLOX: But I also care about what happens to you. I feel like I've got to know you over the past few days.
EMH: You've been spying on my fantasies, not me. You don't know me at all.
PHLOX: But I do. I know how your mind works, what your hopes are. You created all these possibilities. My species, we're very different. Our thinking is confined but, I can't help but admire you. I don't want you to be harmed.
EMH: Then I suppose we should swing into action.

[Bridge]
EMH: Captain, we're about to be attacked. Alien vessels are approaching.
PARIS: There's nothing on the sensors, Doc.
EMH: The vessels are cloaked.
CHAKOTAY: How do you know this?
EMH: One of the aliens contacted me.
TUVOK: I've detected no transmissions.
EMH: He spoke to me in a daydream.
JANEWAY: I don't want to hear it. However, I would like to know why you've disobeyed my direct order.
EMH: I can prove it to you. The alien told me how to reconfigure our sensors to compensate for their cloaking field.
KIM: He's right. I'm picking up three ships out there. Distance six hundred million kilometers, headed right for us.
JANEWAY: On screen. Maximum magnification.
EMH: The alien won't help us unless we help him.
PARIS: What if this is all part of their attack? A ruse?
CHAKOTAY: He's already helped us compensate for their cloak. I'm inclined to believe him.
JANEWAY: So am I, but I'd just as soon set a course away from here at maximum warp.
EMH: That will only delay a confrontation. They have vessels hidden throughout the entire sector.
JANEWAY: Did your friend have a plan?
EMH: He said they're running what's called a type three stealth assault. They won't decloak until they're right on top of us, at which point they'll fire a warning shot across our bow. Then come the demands for supplies and technology. If we don't comply, they'll destroy us. Fortunately, the alien promised to transmit the resonance frequencies of their phasers.
TUVOK: And in return?
EMH: In return. He mistakenly informed his superiors that I was in command of Voyager. To keep himself from being demoted, he wants us to maintain that fiction. When they open the channel, I have to be sitting in the Captain's chair. I'm sorry, Captain, but he insisted.
JANEWAY: Well, I guess it's time to turn fantasy into reality.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I'm in over my head. What if I fail?
KIM: You sound like I did when the Captain put me in command of the night shift. That chair looked so big I thought I'd sink so far into it that nobody would be able to see me.
EMH: But you had your Academy training to fall back on.
KIM: Yeah, well, sounds like you've had plenty of practice.
EMH: That wasn't real.
KIM: Listen, Doc. The whole reason you wanted to be able to daydream was to test out possibilities, right? Consider this a field test.

[Overlooker ship]
OVERLOOKER: Why isn't there any hull damage from the Borg attack?
PHLOX: They repaired it.
OVERLOOKER: So quickly? Hmm. Prepare for type four assault.
PHLOX: Type four? That would cause a huge drain on our energy core. A waste of resources. Do you really think that's necessary?
OVERLOOKER: What I think doesn't matter. Your long range surveillance indicated an attack by Borg. On closer inspection, that appears to be doubtful. Your report on this vessel could be mistaken. I think caution is in order. The Hierarchy agrees. Proceed to type four.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Captain on the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: It won't bite.
PARIS: What I wouldn't give right now for a whoopee cushion.
KIM: A what?
PARIS: Ancient technology.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we're ready to proceed.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: Acknowledged, Commander.
SEVEN: The internal comm. link is active. No one will be able to hear you but the Doctor.
JANEWAY: Doctor, are

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): You ready?
EMH: No, but do I have a choice?
JANEWAY (voiceover): I'll be with you every step of the way. Just remember, I'm still the captain.
EMH: Understood.
TUVOK: I'm receiving a transmission on a secure channel. Audio only.
CHAKOTAY: Must be the Doctor's friend. Let's hear what he has to say. Doctor?
EMH: Hello? Voyager here. It's me.
PHLOX (voiceover): Doctor, something terrible has happened. They've ordered a type

[Astrometrics lab]
PHLOX (voiceover): Four assault. Our phaser frequencies will be rotated

[Bridge]
PHLOX (voiceover): Continuously. I won't be able to help you.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive maneuvers.
TUVOK: Three vessels are decloaking off the port bow.
PARIS: That didn't feel like a warning shot.
TUVOK: Direct hit. Shields are holding.
KIM: They're hailing us.
CHAKOTAY: This is it, Doctor. On screen.

[Overlooker Ship]
PHLOX: See? There he is. Be careful, he, he's dangerous.

[Bridge]
OVERLOOKER (screen): The Hierarchy controls this region of space.

[Astrometrics lab]
OVERLOOKER (voiceover): Your ship has supplies and technology that we require.
JANEWAY: Tell him we'll defend ourselves.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): They won't get what they're after.
EMH: We'll defend ourselves. They won't get what they're after.
OVERLOOKER (screen): Huh?
EMH: I mean you won't get what you're after. Not in a million years. Not if I have anything to say about it.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Don't improvise, Doctor.
EMH: Sorry.
OVERLOOKER (screen): An exchange of fire would damage both of our ships, But we have support nearby. You are alone. Take your weapons offline and prepare to be boa
TUVOK: Excuse the interruption, Commander. I have found a potential weakness in their shields, but I'll need time to reconfigure our phasers.
CHAKOTAY: Keep him occupied, Doctor. On screen.
OVERLOOKER (screen): This is my final warning.
EMH: Don't rush me.
OVERLOOKER (screen): Take your weapons offline immediately. I won't ask again.
EMH: You appear to be suffering from a physio-emotive disorder. You're impatient, quick to anger. Do you have any idea what that does to your vascular pressure? You may want to see a physician.
TUVOK: Firing phasers.
KIM: Direct hit.
EMH: Ha! How do you like that, huh? A taste of your own medicine.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Tone it down, Doctor.
EMH: Sorry.
TUVOK: Our phasers are offline.
OVERLOOKER (screen): Prepare to be boarded.
JANEWAY (voiceover): It's time to negotiate, Doctor. Tell
EMH: Tuvok!
EMH: Activate the photonic cannon. Tuvok, that was an order!
TUVOK: Activating the photonic cannon, sir.
EMH: I'd rather not give the order to fire.
OVERLOOKER (screen): My sensors are showing no activation sequence.
EMH: Of course not. The photonic cannon is impervious to sensors.
PHLOX (screen): The Borg couldn't detect it either. That's why they were destroyed.
EMH: The Borg

[Overlooker ship]
EMH (screen): The Hierarchy, it's all the same to me. Just another bully who didn't know when to back off.

[Bridge]
PHLOX (screen): We'll be vaporized!

[Overlooker ship]
OVERLOOKER: The Hierarchy suggests retreat.

[Bridge]
KIM: They're moving away at maximum impulse.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead, Doctor. You've earned it.

[Doctor's office]
SEVEN (voiceover): Seven of Nine to the Doctor.
EMH: Go ahead.
SEVEN (voiceover): I require your assistance in the mess hall.
EMH: I'll be right there.

[Mess hall]
ALL: Surprise!
KIM: Don't worry Doc, you're not dreaming.
EMH: Captain?
JANEWAY: For your imaginative defense of this ship and her crew, I'm awarding you the Starfleet Medal of Commendation. Congratulations.
EMH: Thank you.
JANEWAY: I've also reconsidered your request. I'm going to authorize a research project to explore your command abilities. You're a natural.
SEVEN: Congratulations, Doctor. That was a Platonic gesture. Don't expect me to pose for you.
EMH: Noted.

[Bridge]
PARIS: All right, all right, hold on. If you were married in 2304 and your daughter was conceived in your eleventh pon farr, that would make you a hundred and sixty two years old.
TUVOK: Incorrect.
KIM: Come on, Tom, The man's not a day over one forty. We know you were at least a hundred when you joined Starfleet the second time, so I'm guessing you're around one thirty three?
TUVOK: Also incorrect. I'm afraid you both lack sufficient data to reach a logical conclusion.
PARIS: Come on, Tuvok, tell us.
TUVOK: I see no reason to enlighten you.
KIM: Don't tell me Vulcans are embarrassed about their age.
TUVOK: On the contrary. We value the wisdom that comes with advancing years.
PARIS: In that case, how wise are you?
TUVOK: Wise enough to end this inquiry.
PARIS: Saved by the bell.
KIM: I've got a fleet of ships two hundred thousand kilometers dead ahead.
TUVOK: Can you identify them?
KIM: Negative.
PARIS: I'm reading multiple hull configurations.
TUVOK: Raise shields. Red alert.
JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: We've detected a large group of vessels directly ahead.
CHAKOTAY: Hostile?
TUVOK: Possibly. I'm charging weapons.
JANEWAY: On screen.
KIM: I'm counting sixty two ships and a few hundred pieces of ships. All dead in space.
PARIS: It's a junkyard. Congratulations, Tuvok. You just saved us from a flotilla of hostile trash.
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: Let's see what they want.
ABADDON (screen): Welcome to Abaddon's Repository of Lost Treasures. Whether you're in the mood to buy or simply browse, we're always open. Take a look. You may find something you never knew you wanted.

[Transporter room]
CHAKOTAY: Mister Abaddon.
ABADDON: The name was passed down from my father and his father before him. Not a very imaginative lot, but I'll answer to it just the same.
CHAKOTAY: I'm Commander Chakotay, this is Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Welcome to Voyager.
ABADDON: Neelix, is it? You wouldn't be a fellow trader, would you?
NEELIX: What makes you say that.
ABADDON: Cheerful demeanor, furtive eyes. It's obvious you're a man of commerce.
CHAKOTAY: You're very perceptive, Mister Abaddon.
ABADDON: A useful skill in my line of work.
NEELIX: I'll admit there was a time when I dabbled in commerce but, these days I focus my efforts on food and diplomacy.
ABADDON: Well, whether you're interested in a new iso-convective oven or a slightly dated translation matrix, you've come to the right place. My inventory, give or take a few items. After twenty years, it's hard to keep up.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like you have an item or two we might be interested in.
NEELIX: Ah, the question is, what are you looking for in return?
ABADDON: Artificial gravity plating. Plasma-based power induction. Impressive.
CHAKOTAY: Those are integrated systems. Unfortunately, we couldn't trade them to you without dismantling our whole ship.
NEELIX: Commander, don't we have some spare duranium sheeting in cargo bay one? With a few modifications, it could be converted into gravity plating.
CHAKOTAY: Good idea. Why don't you show Mister Abaddon our inventory? Report back when you're done.
NEELIX: Yes, sir. Mister Abaddon, follow me please.

[Astrometrics lab]
KIM: This guy's collected more technology than the Borg.
SEVEN: And almost all of it is useless.
PARIS: Wait. What's that?
SEVEN: Ensign?
PARIS: Grid forty nine alpha. Oh, she's beautiful.
KIM: It's just an old rust bucket.
PARIS: Are you kidding? Look at those lines. It's a work of art. That ship wasn't assembled, it was sculpted. I think I'm in love.

[Briefing room]
NEELIX: That makes fifteen power regulators in fair condition, and three more we could salvage with a little work. Seven has some doubts about the ion exchange rods.
CHAKOTAY: We'll take a chance. Add them to the list. What about these cultural artifacts?
NEELIX: Oh, just a few items I thought might have some historical value. They don't cost much.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like a good haul. If that's it?
NEELIX: Oh yes, there is one other item. A small vessel that could be an asset.
CHAKOTAY: We've already got a full complement of shuttles, not to mention the Delta Flyer. What do we need with this derelict ship?
PARIS: Chakotay, this ship is a diamond in the rough. Sure, it's got some scrapes and scratches, but, here, take a look at these systems. It has a neurogenic interface that allows it to react directly to the pilot's thoughts. That gives it the potential of being quicker and more maneuverable than anything we've got, including the Delta Flyer.
NEELIX: Add to that an optronic weapons array.
CHAKOTAY: I get the picture. Are you sure you're not just looking for a new toy?
PARIS: No, absolutely not. Even B'Elanna thinks restoring this ship is worthwhile.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe. If we had the manpower to restore it.
PARIS: No, I'll do all the work myself. On my own time. And if I need a hand, Harry's offered to help.
KIM: I have?
CHAKOTAY: What will it cost us?
NEELIX: Abaddon's agreed to give it to us for three used power cells and Tom's interactive record collection.
PARIS: My jukebox.
CHAKOTAY: All right. One slightly used alien ship. Don't make me regret this.
PARIS: You won't.

[Corridor]
ABADDON: Remember, just one seat, not much storage. She was designed for speed, not hauling.
PARIS: Understood.
ABADDON: Make sure you go easy on the thrusters. She doesn't like being manhandled.
NEELIX: Temperamental?
ABADDON: Sensitive. She demands respect, like any fine piece of machinery.
PARIS: Sounds like you're sorry to let her go.
ABADDON: Well, in some ways she's like the daughter I couldn't marry off. But that doesn't mean I'd trade her to just anyone. I've got a feeling you're the kind of pilot that she needs. Someone that'll give her the proper care and attention.
PARIS: I'm your man.
NEELIX: Don't worry, Mister Abaddon, she's in good hands.

[Transporter room]
ABADDON: Well, this has been a very productive exchange. Oh, just one more thing.
NEELIX: Let me guess. All trades are final.

[Alice]
PARIS: I still can't get an active readout.
KIM: Here's the reason. Another damaged power cell.
PARIS: Oh, come on, Alice, how about it? Give us a break.
KIM: Alice?
PARIS: Well, I've got to call her something.
KIM: How about The Lost Cause?
PARIS: Alice Battisti was the Lost Cause. I knew her back at the Academy. She was smart, sexy, but she wouldn't give me the time of day.
KIM: All right, Alice it is. Try it again.
PARIS: I've got a pulse.
KIM: A little snug.
PARIS: As Seven would say, an efficient design. The main computer's coming online.
KIM: There's not much in it. Just a few schematics. Looks like somebody tried to wipe the database.
PARIS: Probably rolled the odometer back, too. Let's see what this neurogenic interface can do.
PARIS: Whoa.
KIM: What's it like?
PARIS: It's kind of hard to describe. I'm tapped into all the primary systems. Ops, tactical, sensors.
PARIS: What happened?
KIM: We just blew out two more power cells.
PARIS: See if you can reconfigure the power distribution grid.
KIM: Look, we're both tired. Why don't we call it a night, come back fresh tomorrow?
PARIS: Come on, we can still get a couple more hours in.
KIM: You can get a couple more hours in. I'm going to bed.
PARIS: All right, you win. Good night, Alice. See you in the morning.
PARIS (screen): Good night, Alice. See you in the morning. See you in the morning.
ALICE (voiceover): See you in the morning. See you in the morning.

[Paris' quarters]
ALICE (voiceover): Tom.
PARIS: B'Elanna?

[Corridor]
ALICE (voiceover): Tom.

[Shuttlebay]
PARIS: Who are you?
ALICE (voiceover): It's me, Alice.
PARIS: Good morning, Alice.

[Engineering]
PARIS: Sorry, you're going to have to trust me on this. You'll be a lot happier if we can bypass the EPS relays.
KIM: Tom.
PARIS: Yeah.
KIM: Who are you talking to?
PARIS: Alice. She's being very stubborn today. No matter what I do, I can't get her to bring her propulsion systems online.
KIM: Next question. What are you wearing?
PARIS: This is a flight suit design I found in Alice's database. Something her last pilot used to wear.
KIM: For a minute, I thought you were changing Captain Proton's look. Chapter thirty seven.
PARIS: Oh, The Web of Pain. I completely forgot.
KIM: No problem. I've got another hour on the holodeck.
PARIS: Now's not a great time. How about tomorrow?.
KIM: That's what you said yesterday.
PARIS: Sorry, Harry. Alice needs me.
KIM: So does Arachnia.
PARIS: Give the queen my regards. Okay.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Seven, can I get you something?
SEVEN: A refund. The star charts we obtained from Abaddon are inaccurate.
NEELIX: Really?
SEVEN: The computations are based on obsolete data.
NEELIX: It's not the only item that didn't live up to its advertising.
SEVEN: Cultural artifacts?
NEELIX: According to Abaddon, they're lost treasures of the Delta quadrant. If you ask me, they're worthless trinkets.
SEVEN: Perhaps not. This crystal is beryllium.
NEELIX: Valuable?
SEVEN: Beryllium is the standard currency in spatial grid five three nine. There are species that would trade an entire fleet of starships for this trinket.
NEELIX: If Abaddon knew about this, he'd never have traded it for a few plasma couplings. Maybe I should return it.
SEVEN: Need I remind you? All trades are final.
PARIS: Neelix, I need one bottle of champagne, if you don't mind.
NEELIX: Another anniversary?
PARIS: No, I'm christening Alice.
NEELIX: Congratulations. I'll whip up some hors d'oeuvres for the crew.
PARIS: Oh no, don't bother. This is a private ceremony. Just me and B'Elanna.
NEELIX: And Alice, of course.
PARIS: Oh yes, of course.
NEELIX: There's nothing like having your own ship. I remember when I first laid eyes on my little freighter, Baxial.
PARIS: No, don't tell me. Love at first sight.
NEELIX: Actually, I thought she was the ugliest thing I ever saw. But she grew on me. Eventually, I couldn't imagine being without her. You know, she's still down at the shuttlebay. Why don't we get her and Alice together and go on a double date.
PARIS: You pack the picnic basket, I'll bring the deuterium.

[Corridor]
TORRES: So, I finally get to meet the other woman.
PARIS: Well, don't be too critical, she's a long way from finished.
TORRES: When have you ever known me to be critical?
PARIS: Is that a trick question? Okay, ready?

[Shuttlebay]
PARIS: Well?
TORRES: It's beautiful. I can hardly believe it's the same ship.
PARIS: Yeah, most of it isn't. I've replaced the impulse reactor, navigational array, er, plasma manifolds. The list goes on and on. Just a few more repairs, and she'll be spaceworthy. Care to do the honors?
TORRES: It's almost a shame to break this over the hull.
PARIS: You have a point.

[Alice]
PARIS: Oh, be careful The upholstery.
TORRES: I'll send an Engineering team down to clean it up. To Alice.
PARIS: To Alice.
TORRES: So when's her first flight?
PARIS: A couple of days, if I can round up all the parts I need. You want to come with me?
TORRES: Sure there's room?
PARIS: It'll be a tight squeeze.
TORRES: We'll manage.
PARIS: Hold on.
TORRES: Something wrong?
PARIS: It's these environmental controls. They need recalibrating.
TORRES: It is kind of warm in here, isn't it?
PARIS: Alice, lower the ambient temperature.
ALICE (voiceover): Please specify, Tom.
PARIS: Five degrees should do it.
ALICE (voiceover): Temperature modification complete.
TORRES: That's some voice.
PARIS: It came with the ship. Are you jealous?
TORRES: Maybe I should be. I hear you've been sleeping here.
PARIS: When Alice lets me sleep.
TORRES: Sounds like a real slave driver. Well, if you're trying to make improvements, you might want to start with these reactant injectors. The deuterium mix is too high.
PARIS: That's how Alice likes it. No, don't touch that.
TORRES: I was just trying to help.
PARIS: Well, thanks, but we're fine.
TORRES: We? It's a ship, Tom.
PARIS: Yeah, but she's my ship.
TORRES: Well then, maybe I'll leave the two of you alone.
PARIS: Okay. I'll see you later.
TORRES: Thanks for the champagne.
TORRES: Ow!
PARIS: Oh, sorry. I need to fix that.

[Chakotay's office]
CHAKOTAY: Thirty meters of EPS conduit? A broadband sensor matrix? A tactical data module? Tom, I appreciate your enthusiasm, but I can't spare these parts right now.
PARIS: They're just lying around Cargo Bay two.
CHAKOTAY: Those are emergency supplies, and this isn't an emergency.
PARIS: Okay, what if I just replicated some?
CHAKOTAY: That takes energy, which isn't exactly in abundance at the moment. Maybe in a few weeks, if we can replenish our power reserve.
PARIS: A few weeks? What am I supposed to do until then?
CHAKOTAY: Your duties, which you've been neglecting. You've been late for two shifts in Sickbay. You've been distracted on the bridge. Maybe it's time you gave this project a rest.
PARIS: Yeah, you're right. I guess I have been overdoing it.
CHAKOTAY: You look run down. Maybe you should stop by Sickbay and have the Doctor take a look at you.
PARIS: No, I'm fine. I just haven't been getting enough sleep.
CHAKOTAY: Well, your next shift isn't till oh seven hundred. Why don't you do yourself a favor and turn in early.
PARIS: Yeah. Good idea.
CHAKOTAY: One more thing. I'd appreciate it if you'd shave and change back into your uniform. We do have protocols.
PARIS: Yes, sir.
CHAKOTAY: We'll get your Alice flying. Just give it some time.

[Shuttlebay]
PARIS: Sorry, Alice, we'll have to put the test flight on hold. All we need is a few lousy spare parts, but to listen to Chakotay you'd think Voyager would grind to a halt without them.
ALICE: But we're so close.
PARIS: Well, he gave me a direct order.
ALICE: Since when do you care so much about orders?
PARIS: I'm already an Ensign. You want to see me busted down to Cadet?
ALICE: Don't take that off.
PARIS: Well, I'm afraid I have to get back into uniform. Protocol.
ALICE: Forget about protocol. Once my repairs are complete, we can go somewhere together.
PARIS: Leave Voyager?
ALICE: It's been a long time since I met a pilot I've been compatible with. We can go anywhere you want.
PARIS: It's very tempting, Alice, but I can't just take off.
ALICE: What's holding you back?
PARIS: My job, for one thing. My friends. B'Elanna.
ALICE: She doesn't understand you the way I do. None of them do.
PARIS: Look, maybe we can make the test flight in a few weeks. And if it goes well, I'm sure the Captain will assign us on missions together. But I can't leave Voyager.
ALICE: All right. I'm sure you know what's best for us.
PARIS: Yeah, I think I do.
ALICE: You look a little tired. How about some rest?

[Alice]
ALICE: Sit back, relax. Let me help you with this.
PARIS: What are these?
ALICE: Just some modifications I made to your flight suit. They'll help us work together more closely. I'll show you. Activate the interface. Just for a minute. You won't regret it. What do you say we continue with those repairs?

[Jefferies tube]
ALICE: How's it coming?
PARIS: This is the last power cell, then we'll just need the data module from section beta twelve.
ALICE: What's wrong?
PARIS: Oh, these relays are just tricky, that's all.
ALICE: You're not being honest with me. I thought we agreed to tell each other everything.
PARIS: Well, it's just, we're compromising vital systems.
ALICE: Backup systems.
PARIS: If there's an emergency, Voyager's going to need them.
ALICE: If your friends had been more understanding, we wouldn't have to be sneaking around like this.
PARIS: I've spent the last six years with these people. They're like my family.
ALICE: Sometimes you have to leave your family behind. They're not like us. They're trapped by rules and regulations. Velocity, freedom. They'll never understand these things the way we do.
PARIS: Yeah, maybe you're right.
ALICE: Of course I am. You don't belong here. You belong with me. You're thinking about your first flight, aren't you? Tell me.
PARIS: Dad took me up in an old S class shuttle. Two seats, no warp drive, manual helm controls. I was eight years old and I was scared out of my wits.
ALICE: You couldn't keep the ship level.
PARIS: No, not at first. But then came this moment of clarity, when suddenly everything made sense.
ALICE: The clouds parted.
PARIS: I was flying. No matter how many starships I've piloted since then, I'm still chasing that feeling.
ALICE: Tomorrow you'll catch it. Only this time there won't be any clumsy controls to get in the way. Just you, me, and the stars.

[Astrometrics lab]
PARIS: Hey.
SEVEN: I wasn't aware you were assigned to Astrometrics.
PARIS: I was just passing by. I guess curiosity got the best of me.
SEVEN: Are you planning an away mission? You were charting a course.
PARIS: Oh, that. No, I was just taking a peek at what's ahead of us. All yours.
SEVEN: You've modified your garment.
PARIS: Adapted, actually. I made a few tweaks to enhance Alice's neurogenic interface. You know, the merging of man and machine.
SEVEN: Perhaps you should learn more about this interface before you attempt to use it.
ALICE: Convince her it's safe.
PARIS: I ran diagnostics of every system on board that ship. There's nothing to worry about.
SEVEN: Perhaps I should examine it.
ALICE: Make an excuse and leave.
PARIS: It's nice of you to offer, but it's really not necessary. I have to get back to work.

[Engineering]
KIM: Power fluctuation's down to four point seven percent. Looks like Abaddon's regulators might work out after all,
TORRES: Keep at it. The last thing we need is a temperamental power supply.
KIM: Bad day at the office?
TORRES: Bad night with Tom Paris. You're his best friend, right?
KIM: So he tells me.
TORRES: So maybe you can explain why every time he finds a new hobby, I go right out the airlock.
KIM: I wouldn't take it personally. The Ferengi call it the Five Stages of Acquisition. Infatuation, Justification, Appropriation, Obsession, and Resale. Seems like you only got one stage left before he loses interest in that ship and he's all yours again.
TORRES: Until the next infatuation. We've got a point zero zero three drop in the warp field output.
KIM: That's within parameters.
TORRES: Not on my watch. Somebody's removed four power cells from the secondary warp assembly without authorisation.
KIM: Whoever it was tried to cover his tracks by rerouting power from adjacent cells. Should we tell Tuvok?
TORRES: Don't bother. This is an open and shut case.

[Shuttlebay]
TORRES: Tom Paris!
TORRES: Well Alice, looks like you've been borrowing my things without permission.

[Alice]
TORRES: Hey! Computer, open the hatch.
ALICE (voiceover): Unable to comply. Warning. Life support failure.
TORRES: Torres to the bridge. Torres to Chakotay. Anybody!
PARIS: B'Elanna, what are you doing here?
TORRES: Let me out of here!

[Corridor]
PARIS: What the hell happened in there?
TORRES: Your ship tried to kill me.
PARIS: That's ridiculous.
TORRES: It sealed the hatch, vented the atmosphere.
PARIS: You must have accidentally tripped environmental controls.
TORRES: Don't you try to tell me this was an accident.
PARIS: What else could it have been?
TORRES: How about pilot error?
PARIS: Are you saying that this was my fault?
TORRES: What's gotten into you? You've been stealing components, Tom. I found the power cells.
PARIS: A few spare parts. You're overreacting.
TORRES: Am I?
PARIS: Where are you going?
TORRES: To talk to the Captain.
PARIS: Wait.
TORRES: There's something wrong with you.
PARIS: Listen to me!
TORRES: Are you out of your mind?
PARIS: Stay out of this, B'Elanna!
TORRES: Or what? You'll sic Alice on me again?
ALICE: Let her go.
PARIS: What were you thinking? You could have killed her!
ALICE: She broke into my database. She was going to discover our flight plan. Not that it matters now.
PARIS: What is that supposed to mean?
ALICE: Keep your voice down. Once your girlfriend talks to the captain they'll drag you straight to Sickbay. One neural scan and they'll know all about us.
PARIS: Well, maybe it's time they did.
ALICE: Think you can just walk away?
PARIS: Watch me.
ALICE: So, I guess this is the real Tom Paris. Life throws up a few roadblocks and he heads for the nearest exit.
PARIS: Get away from me.
ALICE: I need you.
PARIS: You should have thought of that before you tried to kill B'Elanna.

[Turbolift]
PARIS: Sickbay.
ALICE: Remember how you felt when you first saw me? You knew we were meant to be together.
PARIS: I was wrong.
ALICE: Think of how it feels when you're sitting at the helm, and the interface is active.
PARIS: It's over, Alice. One way or the other, I'm getting the hell away from you.
ALICE: I'm sorry you feel that way.
PARIS: Argh! What are you doing to me?
ALICE: Convincing you to do the right thing. Take us the shuttlebay. We're leaving Voyager.
PARIS: No! Argh!
ALICE: Please, Tom. I don't want to hurt you. The shuttlebay, now.
PARIS: Deck ten. Shuttlebay.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: This isn't the first time you and Tom have had an argument about how he spends his free time.
TORRES: This wasn't a lovers' quarrel. Captain, he practically assaulted me.
JANEWAY: Well, that doesn't sound like Tom.
TORRES: It wasn't Tom. It was Alice.
JANEWAY: Now you've lost me.
TORRES: That's the name that he's calling this new ship. Ever since he started working on it, he hasn't slept, he's become irritable, irrational. It's not just me. Chakotay and Harry have noticed the same thing.
JANEWAY: This new ship. It has some kind of neurogenic interface.
TORRES: Exactly. It must be having some kind of an effect on him.
JANEWAY: All right, I'll have the Doctor take a look at him. But in the meantime, I want you
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain, we have an unauthorized launch in progress.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Seal the shuttlebay doors.
KIM: Too late, he's out.
KIM: His shields are up. I can't get a transporter lock.
JANEWAY: Tractor beam.

[Alice]
PARIS: They're trying to tractor us.
ALICE: Stop them.
PARIS: I can't.
ALICE: You'll be able to maneuver much better if you complete the interface.
PARIS: How?
ALICE: Activate the connector sequence.
ALICE: We're one now, Tom. Think of what you want me to do, and I'll do it.
PARIS: We can disrupt their tractor beam with an optronic pulse.
ALICE: Good. You have access to our weapons. Use them.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: He's charging weapons.
CHAKOTAY: Full power to the shields.
TORRES: He's disrupting our tractor beam.
JANEWAY: Increase power to the emitters. We'll drag him in by his heels if we have to.
TUVOK: He's broken free, Captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Paris. Stand down and return to Voyager immediately.

[Alice]
PARIS: I'm with Alice now, Captain. Let us go.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: You know I can't do that, Tom.

[Alice]
ALICE: She'll do anything to get you back. I don't blame her for that, but we have to stop her.
PARIS: How?
ALICE: You know.

[Bridge]
KIM: He's coming about.
TUVOK: He's charging weapons again. Direct hit.
JANEWAY: Return fire.
KIM: He's gone to warp.
JANEWAY: Track him.
TORRES: He masked his warp signature. He's gone.

[Alice]
ALICE: And Daedalus fashioned wings from wax and feathers and used them to escape his prison.
PARIS: That's one of my favorite myths.
ALICE: I know.
PARIS: But you left out the part where Icarus flew too close to the sun and his wings melted.
ALICE: Poetic license. Besides, if we get too close to a star we have multiphasic shielding to protect us. What is it?
PARIS: My arms. They feel numb.
ALICE: Who need arms when you have wings? You're becoming a part of me now. Our potential is unlimited. Forget the old Tom Paris. He doesn't exist anymore.

[Bridge]
ABADDON (screen): You know my policy.
JANEWAY: We're not looking for a refund, just some information.
ABADDON (screen): That's one commodity I don't keep in stock. I suggest you look elsewhere.
JANEWAY: Not until we get some answers.
ABADDON (screen): You'll find I'm prepared to deal with disgruntled customers.
TUVOK: Captain, I'm reading active weapons signatures on three of the derelict ships. They are targeting Voyager.
JANEWAY: Before we take actions we both might regret, Mister Neelix has something to show you.
NEELIX: I wanted to say thank you for this lost treasure.
ABADDON (screen): A beryllium crystal.
NEELIX: I'm surprised a trader of your distinction would let this slip through his fingers. I could say all trades are final, but we'd be willing to give it back in exchange for some cooperation.

[Briefing room]
TUVOK: Haunted?
ABADDON: That's what the Haarkonian told me when he traded her. I blamed his wild stories on isolation sickness and then took the ship off his hands.
CHAKOTAY: Did you ever notice anything odd about the ship?
ABADDON: Odd? You could say that. I tried turning her into a towing vessel. She was cooperative at first but then she began to require constant, oh.
ALICE: I hope you haven't forgotten me.
NEELIX: Mister Abaddon?
ABADDON: Where was I?
CHAKOTAY: Constant repairs.
ABADDON: Right. Please, I wasn't going to tell them anything.
TUVOK: Who were you speaking to?
ABADDON: No one. I, I, I have to leave now. I'll return the items you traded for the ship. Leave me alone. I did what you told me. I found you a pilot.
JANEWAY: What is it? What are you seeing?
ABADDON: It's her. She's right in front of me.
CHAKOTAY: There's no one there.
ABADDON: Transport me back now. Argh!
JANEWAY: Janeway to Sickbay. Medical emergency.

[Sickbay]
EMH: He suffered a cerebral hemorrhage. Fortunately, I was able to repair the damage in time.
JANEWAY: What caused it?
EMH: It appears his neural pathways were recently restructured. I detected a neurogenic signature.
JANEWAY: Looks like Alice got to him, too. Wake him.
ABADDON: She was here.
EMH: The woman you saw was an hallucination created by the derelict ship's neurogenic interface. I've given you a cortical suppressant. She won't be bothering you anymore.
JANEWAY: Tell me. What does this ship want with our crewman?
ABADDON: She can't fly herself, she needs a pilot. A biological entity to work in tandem with her programming.
JANEWAY: Well, if all she needed was a pilot, why didn't she just recruit you?
ABADDON: I wasn't compatible. She said my reflexes were too slow, that I was as useless as the junk that I traded, and I couldn't get her to where she needed to go. Don't ask me for the coordinates. She never told me. Just insisted that I get her a real pilot. I'm sorry I didn't warn you before. I couldn't resist her.
SEVEN (voiceover): Seven of Nine to Captain Janeway. Please report to Astrometrics.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I've managed to reconstruct the data Ensign Paris was working on. My suspicion was correct. It is a course trajectory.
JANEWAY: Let's see it.
SEVEN: It terminates in spatial grid eight six seven.
JANEWAY: Looks uninhabited.
SEVEN: It's empty space, with the exception of a small anomaly.
JANEWAY: A particle fountain. The Federation lost more than a dozen ships examining a similar phenomenon in the Alpha Quadrant. Relay the coordinates to the bridge.

[Alice]
ALICE: Take us out of warp. Can you see it now?
PARIS: Yes. What is it?
ALICE: Home.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Distance?
KIM: Six million kilometers.
JANEWAY: Decrease speed to one quarter impulse. Full power to shields.
TUVOK: I'm detecting a vessel off our starboard bow.
KIM: It's Tom. He's headed right for the anomaly.
JANEWAY: Can you get a transporter lock?
KIM: No, ma'am, not with those multiphasic shields in place.
JANEWAY: Are we in hailing range?
TUVOK: Opening a channel. He's responding.
PARIS (screen): Keep your distance, Captain, or we'll open fire.
JANEWAY: Tom, listen to me. The neurogenic interface is affecting your judgment. Drop your shields

[Alice]
JANEWAY (voiceover): And let us beam you aboard.
ALICE: Ignore them. Keep going.

[Bridge]
KIM: He's not responding.
JANEWAY: Target his propulsion systems and fire.
TUVOK: Direct hit. The vessel's shields are holding.
EMH (voiceover): Doctor to the bridge.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Cease fire. Ensign Paris' neural readings are fluctuating. His synaptic functions have become linked to the ship. If we keep firing we could injure him. Severely.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Tuvok, stand down.
KIM: We've got ten minutes until he reaches the particle fountain.
CHAKOTAY: Is there any way to disable their shields without firing weapons?
TUVOK: If I could access their main computer and transmit a shutdown sequence.
KIM: Problem is, Tom and Alice would detect it. They'd compensate.
JANEWAY: Unless we find a way to distract them. Bridge to the Doctor.
EMH (voiceover): Go ahead.
JANEWAY: Any progress on your analysis of the neurogenic interface?
EMH (voiceover): Not yet, Captain.
JANEWAY: Would it be possible to tap into the interface using a comm. signal?

[Sickbay]
EMH: I believe so, but I don't know what that would accomplish.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: You've got five minutes. Do it.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY (voiceover): And tell B'Elanna to prepare for an away mission.
TORRES: Captain?

[Bridge]
KIM: We're four minutes away.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Status?
EMH: Stand by, Captain. I'm making the final adjustments.
TORRES: I'm not sure how I feel about getting inside Tom's head.
EMH: Maybe you'll be able to explain a few things when you get back.

[Alice]
ALICE: I knew you were the one. No one's ever got me this close before.
PARIS: I'll have you home in just a few minutes.
ALICE: I promise you won't be disappointed.
TORRES: Don't believe her.
PARIS: Where's Alice?
TORRES: There is no Alice. She's a pile of circuits in the ship's computer core. You're letting a program delude you.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Doctor to bridge. She's in.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Now.
TUVOK: Accessing their main computer.

[Alice]
PARIS: You don't understand. This is what I've always dreamed of.
TORRES: You're still dreaming, And when you wake up you're in for a big surprise.
PARIS: Alice needs me.
TORRES: So do I.
ALICE: Nice sentiment, but it's a lie. Your family will do anything to keep us apart. Don't listen to them.
TORRES: Tom, it's me. B'Elanna. Alice is an illusion.
ALICE: I'm giving you what you always wanted, something they can never do. Does that sound like an illusion?
PARIS: I can't think. Leave me alone, both of you.
ALICE: They've accessed our systems. They're trying to disable my shields. Stop them.
TORRES: Focus on me. Listen to me.
ALICE: My shields are failing. Do something.
TORRES: It's time to come home.
ALICE: Tom.
PARIS: No!
TORRES: Hang on. We're going to get you out of here.
ALICE: Tom!
PARIS: No!

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I've got it, Captain. Their shields are down.
JANEWAY: Beam him to Sickbay.
KIM: There's too much interference from the particle fountain.
CHAKOTAY: I'm boosting the confinement beam. Try it now.
KIM: We've got him.
TUVOK: Alice is losing helm control.
JANEWAY: Resume course to the Alpha Quadrant.

[Sickbay]
EMH: You'll need a few days to fully recover. Think you can manage to stay off your feet for that long?
TORRES: If he doesn't, I'll break his legs.
EMH: Well then, I'll leave you to B'Elanna's tender mercies.
TORRES: I've got something for you. It's a get well card from Naomi Wildman. It's a pretty good likeness of you, but I don't think she quite captured my eyes.
PARIS: I'm sorry. For everything.
TORRES: It wasn't your fault.
PARIS: But I remember all of it. Everything I said, everything I did. It was like I was sleepwalking.
TORRES: The important thing is, you woke up.
PARIS: Yeah. Thanks for being my alarm clock.
TORRES: Any time.
PARIS: From now on, I promise no more affairs with strange ships.
TORRES: What about the Delta Flyer?
PARIS: We're just friends.

[Delta Flyer]
TUVOK: Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Sorry. How about a game of Species, Starship or Anomaly?
TUVOK: Surely you could find something more productive to occupy your time.
NEELIX: Come on, Tuvok, it'll be fun. You think of something, species, anomaly, or starship, and I have fifteen questions to guess what it is. Come on, come on, come on, come on.
TUVOK: I would prefer some peace and quiet.
NEELIX: How about a riddle?
TUVOK: Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: Come on, it'll be fun.
TUVOK: I have no desire for fun.
NEELIX: Okay, forget fun. A good riddle can stimulate the mind. Now, no self-respecting Vulcan could say no to that.
TUVOK: Very well. One riddle.
NEELIX: Okay, here goes. A lone Ensign finds himself stranded on a class L planetoid with no rations. His only possession, a calendar. When Starfleet finds him twelve months later, he's in perfect health. Why didn't he starve to death?
TUVOK: It is a theoretical possibility that such planetoids contain hot water springs, which could sustain the man for several weeks.
NEELIX: But not for a whole year.
TUVOK: I concur. Logic dictates that the Ensign in question would perish.
NEELIX: Ah ha, ha ha! I stumped you. As a matter of fact, he not only survived, but his belly was full. Why? Because he feasted on dates from the calendar.
TUVOK: Your answer is merely wordplay, it has no basis in reality. Now, if you'll excuse me.
NEELIX: Where are you going?
TUVOK: To find some peace and quiet.
NEELIX: Have fun.

[Delta Flyer - aft section]
TUVOK: Tuvok to Neelix.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
NEELIX: Miss me already, Commander?
TUVOK (voiceover): Did you activate the aft tactical station?
NEELIX: No.

[Delta Flyer - aft section]
NEELIX (voiceover): Why?
TUVOK: There appears to be a download in progress.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
NEELIX: That's odd.
TUVOK (voiceover): I'm detecting

[Delta Flyer - aft section]
TUVOK: Anomalous readings.
NEELIX (voiceover): What sort of readings?
TUVOK: I'm not certain. But I believe it's a cloaking frequency that
TUVOK: Argh!

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
NEELIX: Commander?

[Delta Flyer - aft section]
NEELIX: Tuvok! Delta Flyer to Voyager. Mayday! Tuvok, what happened?

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Report.
EMH: He's in neuraleptic shock. I'll need another twenty milligrams of synaptizine.
NEELIX: I'll get it.
EMH: It's not working. I'll need to try direct cortical stimulation. Initiate a neurostatic pulse on my mark.
JANEWAY: Right.
EMH: Now. Again.
EMH: His vital signs have stabilized, for the moment anyway, But he suffered severe neurological trauma.
JANEWAY: Do you know what caused it?
EMH: Some kind of alien weapon.
NEELIX: By the time I reached Tuvok, whoever had attacked him was gone.
JANEWAY: What about the surrounding space? Any indication of cloaked vessels?
NEELIX: Between trying to tend to the Commander and piloting the Flyer, I had my hands full. I, I didn't think to scan for cloaked ships. I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: You saved Tuvok's life, Neelix. You have nothing to be sorry about. How do you plan to treat him?
EMH: I won't know until I've run a series of neurological scans, but it would certainly help to know something about the weapon.
JANEWAY: Neelix, these Kesat you were negotiating with. Any reason to believe they might know something about this?
NEELIX: It couldn't hurt to ask.
JANEWAY: Time to reopen diplomatic channels.

[Briefing room]
NAROQ: Deputy investigator Naroq, Kesat security. Captain Janeway, Commander Chakotay, Ambassador Neelix.
JANEWAY: You've done your homework.
NAROQ: I familiarized myself with the facts on the way here.
CHAKOTAY: We're hoping you can help us shed some light on what happened to our crewman.
NAROQ: I believe I can. Based on the information you provided, it is my opinion that he was a victim of the Ba'Neth.
JANEWAY: I've never heard of them.
NAROQ: I'm not surprised. In my language, their name means shadow people. They're a species obsessed with concealing their identity. Extremely paranoid and xenophobic.
JANEWAY: Well, that explains their cloaking technology.
NAROQ: It's my belief they've been responsible for several unexplained attacks similar to this one.
NEELIX: Why wasn't I warned about them during my negotiations with your government?
NAROQ: Because my government's official position is that the Ba'Neth do not exist. Most people think they're a myth.
CHAKOTAY: There's nothing mythical about what happened to Mister Tuvok. Why is your government so skeptical?
NAROQ: Because there've been so few encounters with the Ba'Neth and, well, no one's ever actually seen one.
JANEWAY: How many encounters are we talking about, exactly?
NAROQ: Before this incident? Twelve.
CHAKOTAY: I guess we're lucky thirteen.
NAROQ: You're lucky I gave my supervisor two bottles of Kesatian ale to get this assignment. Any other inspector would have simply attributed Commander Tuvok's injuries to unexplained phenomenon.
JANEWAY: No offense, Mister Naroq, but what makes you so sure the Ba'Neth aren't just a myth?
NAROQ: This incident fits the pattern, Captain. All of the alleged encounters have occurred aboard vessels foreign to this sector. I believe they've been attempts by the Ba'Neth to assess the technology of new arrivals.
NEELIX: They were trying to download tactical data.
NAROQ: And Commander Tuvok suffered severe neural damage. That's also consistent with previous attacks. The Ba'Neth were making sure he would not tell anyone what he saw.
JANEWAY: Maybe that's why Tuvok's tricorder was destroyed. They didn't want us to see the cloaking frequency he'd found.
NAROQ: He found a cloaking frequency?
JANEWAY: Apparently.
NAROQ: Captain, I don't blame you for finding my theories a bit eccentric. I'm used to it. It's why I'm still a deputy investigator, but I've brought equipment to help your investigation. Let me examine Commander Tuvok and run scans on the vessel where he was attacked. I may finally be able to prove my theories.
JANEWAY: With all due respect, we're more interested in saving Tuvok's life.
NAROQ: If we work together, maybe we can do both.

[Sickbay]
EMH: His cognitive, memory and logic centers have all been severely damaged.
NAROQ: But he still has brain activity, which is more than I can say for any of the previous victims.
EMH: Vulcan neural tissue is extremely resilient. I have no doubt that a brain from a lesser species would not have survived.
NAROQ: If you could only tell us what you saw, Mister Tuvok.
EMH: I don't think we'll be hearing from him any time soon.
JANEWAY: Keep working. I'll let you know if we find anything that might help. I'll take you to see where the attack occurred.
EMH: Something I can do for you, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: I want to help.
EMH: Unless you have a degree in Vulcan neurobiology that I'm not aware of, there's nothing you can do.
NEELIX: There must be something.
EMH: My advice is to return to your quarters and get some rest.
NEELIX: There's no way that I'm going to be able to sleep knowing that Tuvok is lying here like this.
EMH: There have been rare cases in which comatose patients responded to external stimuli. Aromas, touch, voices.
NEELIX: So, you're saying that if I stay here and, and try to talk to Tuvok, I might be able to provoke some sort of response?
EMH: If anyone can provoke Tuvok, Mister Neelix, it's you.
NEELIX: Good morning, Tuvok. I brought you a few more items from your quarters to help liven up Sickbay. Your kal-toh game, in case you decide you're ready for a match. Oh, and I also thought that you might enjoy a recitation of that classic proto-Vulcan drama, Clash on the Fire Plains. I'll be performing all twenty three parts myself. I also brought you some flowers from the Airponics bay. Oh, that's fragrant, isn't it? Perhaps you'd enjoy some Vulcan incense. How about some music? Computer, access Vulcan audio file, selection fifty six alpha.
EMH: Mister Neelix. What is that dreadful noise?
NEELIX: The Chants of the Monks of T'Panit. Personally, I think it's dreadful, too, but it's one of Tuvok's favorites.
EMH: I appreciate your efforts, Mister Neelix, but I'm trying to analyze his latest neurological scans and this music is very distracting.
NEELIX: You said I was supposed to stimulate his senses.
EMH: I said stimulate them, Mister Neelix, not annihilate them.
NEELIX: Computer, pause music.
EMH: Thank you.
NEELIX: Doctor? Tuvok. You've had an accident. You're in Sickbay.
EMH: Relax, Commander, I only want to scan you.
NEELIX: Don't worry, Tuvok, he's only trying to help you. It's only a tricorder. See? It won't hurt you.
NEELIX: Now try it.
EMH: Well done, Mister Neelix.

[Delta Flyer - aft section]
JANEWAY: Commander Chakotay says you've found something.
NAROQ: That, Captain, is an understatement. Listen.
JANEWAY: What is it?
NAROQ: The sound of history being made.
JANEWAY: Less poetry, Mister Naroq, more facts.
NAROQ: The sound you're hearing indicates the presence of veridium isotopes.
SEVEN: Residual particles from the Ba'Neth's cloaking field.
JANEWAY: You've detected these isotopes before?
NAROQ: Yes, but only after they've decayed. You see, veridium has a very brief half-life, less than seventy hours. The previous sites I've studied have been months, sometimes years old.
JANEWAY: But these isotopes are still active.
SEVEN: We can use Mister Naroq's photolytic converter to illuminate them.
NAROQ: So you see, Captain, why this is an historic moment? We may finally learn what the Ba'Neth look like.
JANEWAY: Well, let's see what we've got.
NAROQ: You don't know how long I've waited to meet you.
JANEWAY: So the Ba'Neth aren't a myth after all.
NAROQ: This is the clearest image ever captured.
SEVEN: Perhaps. I believe I can adjust our internal sensors to improve it.
NAROQ: What are you doing? You might disrupt the image entirely. Tentacles. I always suspected they were multipeds!
EMH (voiceover): Doctor to the Captain. Please report to Sickbay.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way. Seven, if we can integrate Mister Naroq's photolytic technology into the deflector array, we might be able to decloak a Ba'Neth ship.
NAROQ: The technology only works at close range. We have to find the ship before we can expose it. We still need that cloaking frequency.
JANEWAY: One step at a time.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: The Vulcan brain. A puzzle wrapped inside an enigma housed inside a cranium. Tuvok's neural pathways have begun to bypass the damaged tissue. They're forming new synaptic connections. In effect, his brain is rewiring itself. Whether this is due to my neurostatic therapy, or Neelix's rehabilitation regimen, or some combination of the two I can't be certain.
JANEWAY: Is there any chance he'll make a full recovery?
EMH: It's much too soon to say, but he's alert and he's already regained his basic motor skills.
JANEWAY: But still no speech.
NEELIX: It's only a matter of time, Captain. Look how far he's come already.
JANEWAY: I hope you're right, Neelix, but if he could talk he might be able to tell us something about that cloaking frequency.
EMH: We're not sure how much he recalls. For that matter, we're not certain he recognizes any of us, or even knows who he is.
NEELIX: I'm going to take him on a tour of the ship. The Doctor thinks that familiar sights and sounds might get the old synaptic juices flowing. Don't worry, Captain. Tuvok will be back to his old self before you can say live long and prosper.

[Bridge]
NEELIX: I've brought a visitor.
CHAKOTAY: Good to see you up and around.
NEELIX: You remember Commander Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: We were just running a shield diagnostic. Would you like to take a look?
NEELIX: This is tactical station, where you work.
KIM: Just keeping it warm for you. Hope you don't mind. That's the shield array. This controls the tractor emitters.
NEELIX: I think he remembers it.
KIM: Whoa, whoa, whoa! He just activated the photon torpedo banks.
NEELIX: That's all right, Tuvok. Everybody makes mistakes. We'll be back later.

[Tuvok's quarters]
NEELIX: Last, but not least, your quarters. You spend a lot of time here. Reading, meditating. Mister Paris once referred to it as the Vulcan vault. Ah. Look around, explore.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Astrometrics to the Bridge. Mister Naroq and I have completed our deflector modifications. We're ready to test the array.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Stand by. Reduce speed to one quarter impulse. Harry, full power to the deflector array.
KIM: Aye.
JANEWAY: All right, Seven, do it.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Activating the deflector.

[Bridge]
PARIS: I'd call that a pretty successful test.
CHAKOTAY: They've been watching us all along.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
KIM: Which one? There's practically a fleet out there.
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager. We intend you no harm.
KIM: They're charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Shields.
PARIS: They're scrambling, Captain, in all directions.
JANEWAY: Follow the lead vessel.

[Tuvok's quarters]
NEELIX: It's okay, Tuvok. I'm here with you. Everything is going to be all right. You're safe with me.

[Bridge]
KIM: Still no response to our hails.
PARIS: I hate to ruin a good chase, but the Ba'Neth ship is moving out of the deflector's range.
JANEWAY: Seven, can you get

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: Their cloaking frequency?
SEVEN: They're blocking our scans.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We've lost them.

[Tuvok's quarters]
NEELIX: They're gone now, Tuvok. I told you you'd be safe.
TUVOK: Yes, you did.
NEELIX: Tuvok? What? Tell me, what did I do?
TUVOK: You told me I wouldn't be hurt.
NEELIX: Do you know who I am?
TUVOK: You're Neelix. I'm safe with you.

[Ready room]
NAROQ: We need Tuvok to tell us anything he can remember about the attack.
NEELIX: Captain, he may be talking again, but that doesn't mean he's ready to be interrogated. He's beginning to experience emotions, volatile ones. During this last encounter with the Ba'Neth, he was terrified.
JANEWAY: We'll tread lightly, I promise.
NEELIX: All right, Tuvok, you can come in now.
JANEWAY: It's nice to see you.
TUVOK: Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: That's right. This is Mister Naroq. Please sit down. Two days ago, you were aboard a shuttle with Mister Neelix. You detected a cloaked intruder.
NAROQ: He attacked you.
TUVOK: Yes. That's why I'm having difficulty now.
JANEWAY: Yes, and in order to help you, we have to find the people who hurt you.
NAROQ: Before the intruder injured you, you managed to scan him with this. You recorded his cloaking frequency, but the tricorder was damaged and the information was lost. Can you tell us anything about that frequency?
JANEWAY: Try to remember.
TUVOK: I was scanning.
JANEWAY: That's right. What did you see?
TUVOK: I, I don't remember.
NAROQ: Try!
JANEWAY: All right, that's enough. We're done for now.
NAROQ: But, Captain.
JANEWAY: Join Seven of Nine in Astrometrics. See if she's made any progress with the Ba'Neth.
NEELIX: Well, er, we should be going, too. A few of the crew have offered to help with Tuvok's rehabilitation.
JANEWAY: I thought we might have lunch later, just the two of us.
TUVOK: I prefer to stay with Neelix.
NEELIX: Oh, Tuvok. I'm, I'm sure that you would
JANEWAY: It's all right. You two go ahead. I have a lot of work to do anyway.

[Mess hall]
KIM: The object of the game is to turn this jumble of rods into a perfect sphere. We take turns positioning our pieces. Whoever gets the shape to appear first, wins.
TUVOK: I like the way it looks now.
KIM: What do you say we give it a try?
NEELIX: This has always been one of your favorite games, Tuvok. It helps keep your logic sharp.
KIM: I'll go first. Now you.
NEELIX: Go ahead.
TUVOK: I don't like this game.
KIM: When you first taught me how to play, I wasn't very good either. But you kept encouraging me, and pretty soon I scored my first kal-toh. It just takes practice, that's all.
NEELIX: Try again. You can do it.
TUVOK: I don't like this game!

[Sickbay]
TUVOK: The Doctor helped me access my personnel file.
NEELIX: Nice picture. You should see mine. It's awful.
TUVOK: I was an instructor at Starfleet Academy. I've received seventeen commendations for valor. I'm a husband, a father.
NEELIX: You're an extraordinary fellow, Tuvok.
TUVOK: I was an extraordinary fellow.
NEELIX: You're still the same person.
TUVOK: Then why do I no longer work on the bridge?
NEELIX: We talked about that. You had an accident.
TUVOK: And now I'm not smart enough.
NEELIX: Tuvok, you've just got to be patient. Look how much progress you've made already.
TUVOK: He could dismantle a photonic warhead in less than thirty seconds. I can't even play kal-toh.
NEELIX: It's going to take time, but you'll relearn all those things.
TUVOK: How do you know that?
NEELIX: Well, because the Doctor
TUVOK: The Doctor? The Doctor doesn't know how to make me better, does he?
NEELIX: Well, not yet, but
TUVOK: I'll never be him again.
NEELIX: You don't know that. The Vulcan mind.
TUVOK: I'm not a Vulcan. Not any more!
EMH: What's going on?
NEELIX: It's okay Doctor, I can handle this. Please, Tuvok, try to relax. Everything's going to be fine.
TUVOK: No! Nothing's fine! Get away from me!
EMH: You'd better go. Now, Mister Neelix. I'll take it from here.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Oh, sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt.
SEVEN: You didn't.
NEELIX: Yes, I did. You were pondering. Something difficult, by the looks of it. Anything I can help you with?
SEVEN: Unlikely.
NEELIX: Try me.
SEVEN: How do you find something that's invisible?
NEELIX: The Ba'Neth.
SEVEN: We have the ability to illuminate them. But to do so we must first locate them, which we cannot accomplish without their cloaking frequency.
NEELIX: That's quite a riddle.
SEVEN: One that we might be able to solve if Commander Tuvok could tell us what he saw. How is his rehabilitation progressing?
NEELIX: Oh, I thought it was going great, but now? Let's just say that I've got a riddle of my own.
SEVEN: Try me.
NEELIX: All right. When is a Vulcan no longer a Vulcan?
SEVEN: When his genetic code is sufficiently altered.
NEELIX: No, I was speaking metaphorically.
SEVEN: In that case, a person is no longer Vulcan when he has lost his logic.
NEELIX: Right. And how does he get it back?
SEVEN: He must be taught.
NEELIX: Exactly. But what if he's brain-damaged and emotionally unstable? How does he learn?
SEVEN: It may be impossible for him to learn what you're trying to teach.
NEELIX: Well, thanks for the pep talk.
SEVEN: I was merely suggesting that you adapt to the circumstances.
NEELIX: What circumstances? Are you saying that the Tuvok I know is gone? That I should stop trying to help him?
SEVEN: When I was separated from the Collective I, too, was damaged. I was no longer connected to the hive mind. I lost many abilities that I had acquired as a drone, but I adapted.
NEELIX: Because Captain Janeway didn't give up on you. She kept trying to help you.
SEVEN: But not by restoring me to what I'd been. By helping me discover what I could become.

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: What are you making?
TUVOK: A flower. It's for you.
NEELIX: Thank you. I'm not sure I deserve a gift.
TUVOK: I shouldn't have shouted at you. I was angry. I'm sorry.
NEELIX: You were frustrated. I don't blame you. I'm the one who should be apologizing.
TUVOK: Why?
NEELIX: Because I was pushing you too hard. I was trying to mold you into something you weren't.
TUVOK: You were disappointed in me because I can't do anything as well as I did before.
NEELIX: Maybe there are things that you can do better.
TUVOK: What can I do better?
NEELIX: Well, this, for example. You would've considered it an illogical use of your time.
TUVOK: It's not good.
NEELIX: No, it's wonderful. It's creative. It's a symbol of friendship. Before your accident, you never would have considered that my feelings might have been hurt. You would have certainly never have made me a gift.
TUVOK: We weren't friends?
NEELIX: Ah, we were colleagues, and I certainly felt affection for you.
TUVOK: But I didn't return those feelings.
NEELIX: You tolerated me.
TUVOK: I don't understand.
NEELIX: You said things like 'Mister Neelix, please contain your exuberance.' And, 'Mister Neelix I have no desire for fun.' And you never smiled. You've got a much better sense of humor now.
TUVOK: I like to smile.
NEELIX: Me, too.
TUVOK: I don't want to play kal-toh any more. Or meditate, or work on logic problems.
NEELIX: You don't have to.
TUVOK: What can we do instead?
NEELIX: Whatever you want.
TUVOK: Teach me things that you like to do.

[Mess hall]
TUVOK: Here we are. A triple-chocolate wikki fruit sundae with warm fetran sauce.
PARIS: Fetran sauce on a sundae?
NEELIX: Wait till you taste it.
KIM: You really made this?
TUVOK: As Neelix says, dig in.
KIM: Mmm, this is great.
PARIS: This is fantastic.
NEELIX: What did I tell you? Tuvok has a flair for food. All morning, he's been creating new recipes using combinations of ingredients that I never would have imagined. For example. A terra nut soufflé, Jibalian fudge cake with peppermint coulis, sweet leola root tart. Mmm.
PARIS: Only desserts? How come?
TUVOK: They taste good.
KIM: Hey, you better watch out, Neelix. Tuvok may put you out of a job.
PARIS: From your mouth to the Captain's ears.
KIM: She must have heard me.
JANEWAY: What's all this?
TUVOK: We're having fun.
PARIS: It turns out Tuvok is quite the pastry chef.
TUVOK: Would you like some terra nut soufflé, Captain?
JANEWAY: I'd love some. Thank you. Oh, that is delicious.
TUVOK: I am pleased that you like it.
JANEWAY: What are you making now?
TUVOK: Pistachio cake with parra-cream sauce.
JANEWAY: Oh, parra-cream's my favorite.
TUVOK: Then you'll have the first piece.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, have you remembered anything more about what happened on the Flyer?
TUVOK: I detected a cloaking frequency.
JANEWAY: Yes, that's right. Can you describe it?
TUVOK: I don't know, I
JANEWAY: Did it have a symmetric modulation? Was the amplitude constant?
TUVOK: I don't understand.
JANEWAY: It's all right. I don't mean to push you, Tuvok but maybe if we could
NEELIX: It's difficult for him, Captain. Maybe you can try again tomorrow.
TUVOK: This. This is what I saw.
NEELIX: What is it?
JANEWAY: A cloaking frequency. Captain's log, supplemental. The computer has analyzed Tuvok's diagram and identified the Ba'Neth cloaking frequency. We've narrowed the search to a handful of systems.

[Bridge]
KIM: Here we go, Captain. A nine million terrawatt cloaking field in grid two one six.
CHAKOTAY: Nine million terrawatts? Whatever they're hiding, it's huge.
JANEWAY: Alter course, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Astrometrics. Status.
SEVEN (voiceover): The deflector array is ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: Raise shields.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
PARIS: We're within range.
JANEWAY: All right, Seven. Light them up.
KIM: It's an armed outpost. Approximately three thousand life signs, twenty two ships.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
KIM: No response, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: They're charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Open a channel, all subspace bands.
CHAKOTAY: They're firing.
JANEWAY: Cease fire immediately, or I'll transmit the coordinates of this outpost to the Kesat homeworld.
PARIS: That got their attention.
JANEWAY: Several days ago, a member of your species attacked one of my crewmen. He was badly injured. In order to treat him, I need to know more about the weapon that was used.
KIM: They're responding. Audio only.
BA'NETH (voiceover): We do not share technology.
JANEWAY: But you take it from others. The attacker was downloading our tactical database when the incident occurred.
BA'NETH (voiceover): We must assess potential threats.
NAROQ: Paranoid, just as I predicted.
JANEWAY: In exchange for information about your weapon, we'll provide you with tactical data on several species we've recently encountered. You can assess their potential threats all you want.
BA'NETH (voiceover): The Kesat investigator aboard your vessel cannot be trusted.
NAROQ: You know about me?
BA'NETH (voiceover): You have been attempting to expose us for years. You are a threat. You must be stopped.
CHAKOTAY: They're charging weapons again.
NAROQ: Wait. It was my photolytic converter that allowed Voyager to decloak you. If you give Captain Janeway what she wants, I'll give you the converter. You can use it to adapt your technology so ours can no longer expose you.
JANEWAY: I doubt you'll get as enticing an offer from the Kesat homeworld. It would be a shame if you forced me to hail them.
BA'NETH (voiceover): We have an agreement.

[Tuvok's quarters]
TUVOK: Enter.
NEELIX: What are you listening to?
TUVOK: A selection from Tom's jazz database. It really swings. Computer, pause the music. I've been reviewing the holodeck files. I wish to visit the Risa water recreation park. Will you accompany me?
NEELIX: Maybe after your Doctor's appointment.
TUVOK: Appointment?
NEELIX: The Doctor's analyzed the Ba'Neth weapon, and he's devised a procedure to treat you. You should be proud of yourself. If you hadn't drawn that picture on the cake, we may never have found a treatment.
TUVOK: I wish I never drew that picture.
NEELIX: Why?
TUVOK: Because I don't wish to undergo the procedure.
NEELIX: You're having pre-operative jitters, that's all. Don't worry, everyone gets them. Just think about it. In a few hours, you'll be yourself again.
TUVOK: I am myself.
NEELIX: But you'll be able to do all the things that you used to do. Work on the bridge, advise the Captain.
TUVOK: I want to be able to have fun. With you. I won't be able to, will I?
NEELIX: Well, you won't call it fun. You'll call it deriving satisfaction. But it's basically the same thing. You'll still experience emotions.
TUVOK: But I won't express them.
NEELIX: Probably not.
TUVOK: Then how will you know how much I enjoy being with you?
NEELIX: You've just told me.
TUVOK: We'll still be friends?
NEELIX: Of course.
TUVOK: Even if I merely tolerate you?
NEELIX: I'd be lying if I told you that things between us will stay the same.
TUVOK: Well, why? Why do you want me to go back to the way I was?
NEELIX: Because this crew needs its tactical officer on the bridge. And I wouldn't be a very good friend if I ignored that just so that you'd be nicer to me.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Mister Tuvok. I was beginning to think you weren't coming.
TUVOK: I was experiencing pre-operative jitters. Neelix helped me overcome them.
EMH: Glad to hear it. Now please, lie down.
TUVOK: I'll see you after the procedure?
NEELIX: Of course.
NEELIX: I'm going to miss him.
EMH: Me, too.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Hello, Commander.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: It's good to see you up and about. Are you feeling better?
TUVOK: The Doctor has approved my return to duty.
NEELIX: That's wonderful news. How about a celebratory glass of champagne?
TUVOK: Tea will suffice.
NEELIX: Of course. I'm preparing a special dinner tonight in honor of your recovery. I don't suppose that you'd be interested in preparing one of your famous desserts?
TUVOK: I have much more important things to do than engage in the preparation of nutritionally deficient foods.
NEELIX: Maybe another time.
TUVOK: Sundaes.
NEELIX: I beg your pardon?
TUVOK: I have given further consideration to your riddle regarding the Ensign who survived by consuming the dates from his calendar. It occurs to me that he could also have eaten the Sundaes.
NEELIX: That's a very clever answer, Mister Vulcan, But it's not very logical, is it?
TUVOK: No, it's not.

[Vaadwaur cave - stasis chamber]
JISA: Gedrin! Gedrin! What happened? I lost you.
GEDRIN: Thirty seven bio-pods were damaged. I had to disconnect them from the reactor.
JISA: Were they dead?
GEDRIN: I had no choice. The main power's holding. The rest of the bio-pods are secure. That leaves us. Don't look so worried. It'll be like a simple night's sleep. We're out of time.
JISA: Do you think we'll dream?
GEDRIN: I don't know. We'll get through this.
JISA: What if there's nothing left?
GEDRIN: We'll start again. Five years.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: We've entered some kind of a subspace corridor.
PARIS: We were cruising at warp six then, wham, this thing pulled at our warp field like a magnet.
JANEWAY: Where did that debris come from?
TUVOK: Unknown, but the corridor is filled with it. Metal fragments, plasma exhaust, organic residue.
SEVEN: Some of the debris is over eight hundred years old, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'd like to avoid becoming part of this garbage stream. Can you find a way out?
PARIS: I don't now. There's hundreds of corridors. It's like a maze.
JANEWAY: Well, be a good rat and find us the cheese, hmm?
PARIS: I'll do my best, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: It was a vessel, sir. They are hailing us.
JANEWAY: Put it through.
TUREI (screen): Who are you?
JANEWAY: I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Starship Voyager. And you are?
TUREI (screen): This underspace belongs to us.
JANEWAY: We're here by accident. We're trying to find a way out. Can you help us?
TUREI (screen): Help you? Yes, we'll help you.
TUVOK: They are targeting our shields with a resonance pulse. It's altering the harmonics. We're being pushed out of the corridor.
PARIS: We're clear.
TUVOK: The vessel has exited the corridor as well.
PARIS: Captain, we're over two hundred light years from where we entered the corridor.
KIM: Two hundred light years in five minutes?
JANEWAY: Hail them. Thank you for your help. There's something I'd like to ask you. We've got a long journey ahead of us and I was wondering if we could negotiate passage through this underspace of yours.
TUREI (screen): Lower your shields. Prepare to be boarded.
CHAKOTAY: Boarded? For what reason?
TUREI (screen): We must purge your computer. Remove all readings you've gathered in our territory.
JANEWAY: We pose no threat to you. We're simply trying
TUREI (screen): We're going to destroy that information, one way or another. Lower your shields.
JANEWAY: I won't do that.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers. Try to disable them.
TUVOK: Their vessel is highly maneuverable. It's difficult to get a phaser lock.
KIM: Picking up two more ships heading our way .
PARIS: Direct hit. Our warp drive is offline.
TUVOK: Shields down to eighty two percent. Sixty percent.
PARIS: They're closing.
CHAKOTAY: We could use some clever suggestions about now.
SEVEN: There's a planet eight million kilometers ahead, uninhabited. But the atmosphere is charged with radiogenic particles.
CHAKOTAY: How radiogenic?
SEVEN: Three thousand isorems.
CHAKOTAY: If we route enough power to the shields we can survive in that, but maybe our friends can't.
TUVOK: Shields at fifty three percent.
JANEWAY: Do it.
PARIS: Entering the thermosphere.
KIM: Radiation levels at three thousand isorems and climbing.
CHAKOTAY: The alien ships?
TUVOK: In pursuit and charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Increase our descent vector.
PARIS: They're still closing.
TUVOK: Direct hit to our aft shields.
JANEWAY: Find the highest concentration of radiation, and take us through it.
KIM: Proximity radiation at four thousand isorems. Five thousand. Six.
TUVOK: Their shields are weakening. They're breaking off.
JANEWAY: Now, all we need is a place to set down and make repairs. Tom?
PARIS: We're clearing the lower stratosphere.
JANEWAY: On screen.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you said this planet was uninhabited.
KIM: Radiation must have interfered with my scans.
PARIS: I doubt it's inhabited anymore. Looks like this planet's in the middle of a nuclear winter.
TUVOK: Agreed. Gamma radiation levels are highly toxic. The impact crater suggests an orbital bombardment.
JANEWAY: How long ago?
KIM: From the rate of radiogenic decay, eight hundred ninety two years.
JANEWAY: This must have been a city of millions. Set us down.
PARIS: Disengaging engines.
JANEWAY: Stand down red alert. Assign damage repair teams, And Tom, make sure B'Elanna has enough help in Engineering. I want those warp engines back online.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
TUVOK: Our friends are still in orbit.
CHAKOTAY: Circling like vultures.
JANEWAY: Well, they're going to go hungry.
CHAKOTAY: Not if they find a way to adapt their shields and come down after us.
KIM: Captain, I'm detecting faint life signs coming from a chamber several hundred meters beneath the surface.
JANEWAY: Survivors?
CHAKOTAY: After nine hundred years?
JANEWAY: Oversee the repair teams.
CHAKOTAY: You're going down there?
JANEWAY: If somebody survived this catastrophe they might need our help. Get a good fix on those coordinates. I don't want to beam into solid rock. Seven, Tuvok, You're with me.

[Vaadwaur cave - stasis chamber]
JANEWAY: These walls have been reinforced with tritonium. They built this place to last.
TUVOK: Most of the power relays are still active.
JANEWAY: Not bad after nine centuries.
SEVEN: The main reactor is drawing energy from the planet's geothermal core. Efficient.
TUVOK: Some kind of stasis pod.
SEVEN: This display indicates that there are more chambers behind these walls. Some of them have failed.
JANEWAY: It's amazing they survived at all. Let's see what else we can find.
JANEWAY: Seven, what are you doing?
SEVEN: I've activated the reanimation sequence. He may be able to provide us with answers.
TUVOK: We don't know anything about this species. They could be hostile.
SEVEN: Most humanoid cultures are.
JANEWAY: Remind me to reacquaint you with away mission protocols.
GEDRIN: Who
JANEWAY: It's all right. We're not your enemy. We're from a starship. We discovered this chamber and revived you.
GEDRIN: How long was I
JANEWAY: In stasis? Close to nine hundred years.
GEDRIN: Nine hundred? Jisa. Help her, please.
GEDRIN: No, Jisa. She was my wife.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I won't hurt you.
GEDRIN: I was drifting in and out of consciousness when they brought me here, but I thought I saw you appear out of thin air.
EMH: I'm a computer program. A hologram.
GEDRIN: And the others?
EMH: Flesh and blood, like yourself.
GEDRIN: You're the ones that took me out of stasis. I don't recognize your species.
JANEWAY: Human. Our home planet is halfway across the galaxy.
GEDRIN: And you've expanded your territory into this space?
JANEWAY: Our ship was brought here by accident. We're trying to get home.
GEDRIN: You're Borg.
SEVEN: How do you know that?
GEDRIN: Don't you recognize my people? The Vaadwaur?
SEVEN: The Collective's memory from nine hundred years ago is fragmentary.
GEDRIN: I've had many encounters with your kind.
EMH: And lived to tell about them? Impressive.
GEDRIN: How did you find us?
JANEWAY: We needed someplace to hide from the Turei after they found us in one of their subspace corridors.
GEDRIN: Their corridors?
JANEWAY: So they claimed.
GEDRIN: The corridors were ours. It took centuries to map them. We were the envy of a hundred species, including the Turei.
JANEWAY: Are they responsible for what happened to your planet?
GEDRIN: The Turei, and a dozen others. What one couldn't accomplish the others finally did. I would like to look at what's left of my world.

[Mess hall]
GEDRIN: We made our final stand there.
JANEWAY: I've scanned the cavern. You've got a thousand more stasis pods down there, most of them still active. Hundreds of ships, land vehicles, weapons.
GEDRIN: A single battalion, and their families. We had planned to come out of stasis after five years. We believed that by then, the Alliance would have been at each other's throats.
JANEWAY: You were going to rebuild?
GEDRIN: No, not here. We knew this planet would be poisoned for centuries. We were planning to go to another world, start a colony, hope to find new allies, learn from them.
JANEWAY: Your power core is still functioning. It was the controls that were damaged in the attack. That's why you never came out of stasis.
GEDRIN: Jisa and I lived there in the old quarter. We had a garden overlooking the street below. It's a shame she didn't show more courage at the end.
JANEWAY: Given the circumstances
GEDRIN: That's no excuse.
JANEWAY: Pardon me for saying this, but that seems a bit heartless.
GEDRIN: When it rains, do you run from doorway to doorway trying to stay dry, getting wet all the while. Or do you just accept the fact that it's raining, and walk with dignity?
JANEWAY: Rain's one thing. Plasma bombs are something else.
GEDRIN: But the principle is the same.
JANEWAY: I'd bring an umbrella.
GEDRIN: Maybe it's not too late to meet a new ally and learn from her.
NEELIX: I took the liberty of preparing a large assortment of Delta Quadrant dishes. Hopefully, there's something here that you'll like.
GEDRIN: You're Talax-ilzay.
NEELIX: Talaxian, but you're right. My ancestors referred to themselves as Talax-ilzay in the old tongue.
GEDRIN: The old tongue was new when I met your race.
JANEWAY: You traveled all the way to Talaxia?
GEDRIN: And farther. Our corridors took us to many worlds. I'm curious. Have you heard of us, the Vaadwaur?
NEELIX: Oh, I'm afraid there aren't many records from that period, but vaadwaur is a word in the old tongue. It means foolish. I'm sure that it's just a coincidence, of course. I didn't mean to be rude.
GEDRIN: Your ancestors were wise. Only fools would let this happen to them.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Looks like our friends in orbit have found us.
JANEWAY: We're on our way.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: Six Turei vessels are in orbit, all firing plasma charges.
TUVOK: That was two thousand meters to starboard.
KIM: Looks like they can't get an exact fix on our position. The radiogenic atmosphere must be disrupting their targeting.
TUVOK: Nine hundred meters.
PARIS: They're getting closer.
CHAKOTAY: We have the same problem. Our torpedoes won't lock on.
TUVOK: Direct hit. Aft shields down to eighteen percent.
GEDRIN: Captain? Can you transmit a signal through this atmosphere?
JANEWAY: We've already tried talking to them.
GEDRIN: I have no intention of speaking with the Turei. We put a sentry satellite in orbit directly above the city. You could use its sensors to help guide your torpedoes.
TUVOK: It's there. Intact and functional.
GEDRIN: Open a channel. I'll give you the activation code.
GEDRIN: I'm a few centuries out of date.
KIM: You can enter the activation code here. It's processing our telemetry.
JANEWAY: Triangulate. Fire.
TUVOK: Direct hit. The lead ship has lost shields. Its propulsion is down.
GEDRIN: One more torpedo will finish them.
CHAKOTAY: The other ships are retreating.
GEDRIN: Captain, why don't you keep firing?
JANEWAY: We scared them off. That's enough for now.
GEDRIN: But they'll come back with twice as many ships.
JANEWAY: With any luck, our warp drive will be back online by then.
GEDRIN: The Turei may be cowards, but their technology has become much more advanced than ours. If you leave us, we will be slaughtered again.
CHAKOTAY: What do you propose?
GEDRIN: Help us off this planet, and we will show you subspace corridors known to nobody else. You will be free from the Turei, and you will be a thousand light years closer to your home.
JANEWAY: Let's wake up your battalion.

[Vaadwaur cave - central chamber]
CHAKOTAY: Dragon's teeth.
JANEWAY: Dragon's teeth?
CHAKOTAY: An old Greek myth. After a dragon was killed in a war, its teeth were spread out over the battlefield. They took root and warriors sprung from the ground to continue the fighting. Captain's log, supplemental. We've revived nearly two hundred of the Vaadwaur and we're moving forward with our unexpected alliance.

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: Voyager was pulled into the corridor two hundred light years from here.
GAUL: Pulled in?
MORIN: There must have been a break along the radial wall.
GEDRIN: The corridors occur naturally, but they're very unstable. They're damaged by use.
GAUL: Obviously the Turei don't have the wisdom to maintain them properly. They'll be very difficult to navigate after centuries of neglect.
TUVOK: We've only been able to chart a few of the corridors. Can you provide us with a more complete map?
MORIN: We've never kept written records, for security reasons. Of course, we've committed all the corridors to memory. Every multifold, every spatial intersect.
GAUL: We'd be happy to plot a course for you but first, we'll need to get past the Turei, How many vessels are in orbit?
SEVEN: Eleven.
JANEWAY: Mister Gaul, Tuvok, start working on a tactical plan.
GEDRIN: If we do manage to escape, we'll need to locate a habitable world.
JANEWAY: Seven, scan the Astrometric database. See what you can find. Someplace out of the way.
GEDRIN: Morin, take charge of reviving the rest of our battalion.
MORIN: Many of our bio-pods have been damaged. I could use some assistance.
JANEWAY: Our Chief Engineer will be glad to give you a hand.
MORIN: Thank you.
JANEWAY: Well, let's get started. We've got a civilization to rebuild.

[Naomi's bedroom]
NEELIX: No story tonight, Naomi. I had to cook for two hundred people today.
NAOMI: That's okay. I'm tired, too.
NEELIX: Did you get a chance to meet any of the children?
NAOMI: I don't like them.
NEELIX: Why not?
NAOMI: I just don't.
NEELIX: Well, that's not good enough. I'm the ship's ambassador, you're the Captain's assistant. We have to make a good impression on our new friends.
NAOMI: They're not my friends.
NEELIX: Well, not yet. Listen. First thing tomorrow, you and I will get together with a couple of the children.
NAOMI: No.
NEELIX: Naomi, what's wrong?
NAOMI: Nothing. I don't like them and I don't want to play with them.
NEELIX: That doesn't sound like you. Tell me what happened.
NAOMI: They called you names.
NEELIX: Names?
NAOMI: They said everybody from your planet was stupid. They said your ears were funny. They said just looking at you made them laugh. They said
NEELIX: I, I, I get the idea. Children can be a little cruel sometimes, but there's no need to take it personally. Besides, my ears are kind of funny.
NAOMI: I don't want to play with them.
NEELIX: No. And you don't have to.
NAOMI: Okay.
NEELIX: Come on.
NEELIX: Goodnight. I'll tell you a story tomorrow, I promise.

[Vaadwaur caves - central chamber]
TORRES: I'm not happy with these fluctuations. We may be trying to reactivate too many ships at once.
MORIN: I suggest we focus on the assault fighters. Qual tel k'pok.
TORRES: Thanks. When did you learn Klingon?
MORIN: Just a few phrases. I was studying your database. The Klingons are a noble race.
TORRES: They have their moments.
MORIN: Today is a good day to die.
TORRES: Pardon?
MORIN: Kahless, your greatest warrior. That was his battle cry.
TORRES: You seem to have taken an interest in Klingon history.
MORIN: There are many parallels between our cultures. The Vaadwaur have also learned to embrace death without fear. As children, we're taught to fall asleep each night imagining a different way to die.
TORRES: I prefer curling up with a good book.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Computer, access my personal database.
COMPUTER: Access established.
NEELIX: Go into the Talaxian linguistic files, Old Tongue dialect. Find and define the word Vaadwaur.
COMPUTER: Vaadwaur. Archaic adjective. Primary meaning, Foolish. Additional meanings, Weak-minded, reckless, blind.
NEELIX: What's the first known usage?
COMPUTER: First written example appears in Eldaxon's Collected Folklore, second edition. Year of publication, 5012, new calendar.
NEELIX: Computer, name the specific folktales that use the word vaadwaur.
COMPUTER: The Demon with the Golden Voice. The Tale of the Deadly Stranger. The Tale of the Boy who Lost his Head. The Tale of the Bloody Hand.
NEELIX: Not exactly Mother Goose. Computer, transfer the text of those stories to my quarters.
COMPUTER: Transfer complete.

[Astrometrics lab]
GEDRIN: That star cluster in grid fourteen twenty one? Nearly half the planets are inhabitable.
SEVEN: Unfortunately they are already occupied. By the Borg.
GEDRIN: The Borg? In my century they'd only assimilated a handful of systems. It looks like they've spread through the quadrant like a plague. No offense.
SEVEN: None taken.
GEDRIN: We had a colony near the twin star in grid three one five.
SEVEN: That is part of the Devore Imperium now.
GEDRIN: And who are they?
SEVEN: An authoritarian regime. They claim eleven systems across three sectors.
GEDRIN: I don't suppose they'd be willing to negotiate for a continent or two.
SEVEN: The Devore are intolerant of outsiders.
GEDRIN: It doesn't matter. We have nothing to negotiate with. Our technology is nine hundred years out of date.
SEVEN: Your pessimism is irrelevant. We will find a home for you.
GEDRIN: I hope you're right.

[Briefing room]
TUVOK: Sixteen Turei vessels are now in orbit. Long range sensors indicate five more on the way.
JANEWAY: I can understand that they want the odds in their favor, but isn't that overkill?
GAUL: They may have detected us. If they know their history, they'll come prepared.
JANEWAY: Nine hundred years is a long time to hold a grudge.
GAUL: The Turei would like nothing more than to find the rest of our subspace corridors. We can't allow that to happen.
TUVOK: Then I suggest we use the element of surprise. At oh six hundred, Voyager will leave the surface and engage the Turei ships in orbit. As we draw their fire, the more powerful Vaadwaur vessels will attack from multiple vectors. The rest of the Vaadwaur will break orbit from the opposite side of the planet and proceed to the subspace corridors. We'll rendezvous with them afterwards.
GAUL: What if Voyager is disabled? We'll be defenseless. If we armed my ships with your photon torpedoes
JANEWAY: I can't authorize that.
GAUL: Why?
JANEWAY: Starfleet protocols are very strict about the transfer of weapons.
GAUL: I'm not used to putting my life in someone else's hands.
JANEWAY: There are a lot of things you're going to have to get used to. We've faced enemies worse than the Turei. I'm confident we can handle them.
GAUL: I need those weapons.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. The answer's no.
GAUL: If you want access to our corridors.
JANEWAY: We'll continue home through open space if we have to.
GAUL: All right, our lives are in your hands.

[Vaadwaur caves - central chamber]
GEDRIN: We found a planet in a nebula near the junction of corridors three nine and eight seven five. We'd be isolated and relatively safe.
GAUL: Relatively?
GEDRIN: I'm afraid the planet is somewhat harsh. There are no large bodies of water and the vegetation is sparse.
GAUL: This is absurd.
CREWMAN: Ensign, we need a power coupling over here, on the double.
GAUL: Our plan was to reoccupy one of our former colonies, gain allies, rebuild our forces, take back what was ours.
GEDRIN: Our former colonies are destroyed or occupied by species that are far more advanced than we are.
MORIN: Then we'll find a way to take them back.
GEDRIN: With what, a battalion of obsolete ships and outdated weapons?
GAUL: No, with Voyager. I've been studying their technology, the control systems, propulsion, weaponry. We could learn to operate the vessel ourselves.
GEDRIN: What are you saying?
GAUL: After they engage the Turei, they'll expect us to assist them. Instead, we'll attack. We'll put as many soldiers as we can onto Voyager and take it into the corridors.
GEDRIN: This is a mistake. If we fail, we'll lose everything.
GAUL: If you like, I can return you to your stasis pod. Inform the others.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: This is an M class planet in orbit of a type G star. We've located a subcontinent with edible vegetation and an underground water supply. Unfortunately, the region is subject to windstorms.
GEDRIN: Not exactly paradise.
SEVEN: You will adapt.
GEDRIN: Practical and to the point, just like my wife. She had a knack for cutting to the truth.
SEVEN: She must have been an efficient individual.
GEDRIN: To say the least. You would have enjoyed her company. You are not at all like the Borg I knew.
SEVEN: As a drone, I helped assimilate many civilizations. Now I have the opportunity to help reconstruct one. I find the experience gratifying.
GEDRIN: So do I. I'm curious. Has your crew ever considered finding a planet of their own? A place to settle down?
SEVEN: Captain Janeway is committed to getting Voyager back to Earth.
GEDRIN: That could take decades, and there are many dangers ahead.
SEVEN: We will adapt.
GEDRIN: I suppose you will.
NEELIX (voiceover): Neelix to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: Yes?
NEELIX (voiceover): Could I see you in Cargo Bay two? It's important.
SEVEN: Acknowledged.
GEDRIN: I'm due for a final briefing with your Mister Tuvok.
SEVEN: I'll accompany you to the bridge.

[Cargo Bay two]
NEELIX: I'm sorry to bother you, but I've been doing some research on our new allies and I have found something very interesting. In dozens of the ancient folktales of my people, there's a common theme. They describe a phantom army that appears out of thin air, destroys entire colonies, and vanishes in the blink of an eye. Sound familiar?
SEVEN: The subspace corridors.
NEELIX: Exactly. Gedrin claims they've been using them as trade routes but I'm starting to wonder.
SEVEN: Your source material is folktales, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: But many fables have a basis in reality. You've got the collective knowledge of thousands of species. You could cross-reference my findings. It'll only take a few minutes.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
GEDRIN: You wanted to see me, Captain?
JANEWAY: Yes. I need a little history lesson.
GEDRIN: Can't it wait until after we've reached the corridors?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid not. I've just had a conversation with Mister Neelix and Seven of Nine. They've been poring through various databases and ha've come up with some surprising findings.
GEDRIN: Surprising?
JANEWAY: You told me the Vaadwaur were a culture of merchants and scientists who expanded their knowledge by using subspace corridors to travel to other worlds. You were the envy of hundreds of species, some of whom eventually wanted the corridors for themselves.
GEDRIN: Your point?
JANEWAY: Let me give you another version of events. The Vaadwaur were an aggressive culture who expanded their territory by using the corridors to attack other worlds, until some of those worlds banded together to defend themselves and put an end to the Vaadwaur threat once and for all. Would you care to set the record straight?
GEDRIN: That was nine hundred years ago.
JANEWAY: If we're going to be fighting side by side, I have to trust you. I need to be certain you don't have any ulterior motives.
GEDRIN: Our only motive is survival.
JANEWAY: If I were to take you at your word, the ancient Talaxians might call me vaadwaur. Foolish. That's what they came to call anyone who allowed themselves to be deceived by an enemy. There are hundreds of other references just like it.
GEDRIN: Both versions of our history are true. We did use the corridors to explore and, on occasion, expand our territory. But Captain, we have gone from a population of six billion to six hundred. Our weapons are archaic. Do you really think that we are prepared to declare war on the Delta Quadrant?
JANEWAY: Not yet, but right now it's Voyager I'm worried about. The Turei are going to be firing everything they've got at my ship. You might try to take advantage of that.
GEDRIN: What are you going to do, put us all back into stasis?
JANEWAY: We said we'd try to help you make a new start, and I want to keep that promise. But I can't ignore history, Mister Gedrin.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Make yourself comfortable, Mister Gedrin. Chakotay, I don't know whether to believe him or not. What I wouldn't give for a Betazoid about now.
CHAKOTAY: If Mister Neelix is right, we should be ready for anything. Their technology may be outdated, but it can still do a lot of damage.
JANEWAY: Agreed. Maintain a full security alert and have Tuvok keep a weapons lock on their primary reactor.
CHAKOTAY: Are we still proceeding at oh six hundred hours?
JANEWAY: Yes, but with a few modifications. What's Mister Gaul's location?
KIM: He's in the central chamber.
JANEWAY: Hail him.
GAUL (screen): Captain, we've reactivated seventy three assault vessels. Our pilots are standing by.
JANEWAY: I need to inform you about a change of plan. I want you to deactivate the particle cannons on all but ten of your assault vessels. Then we'll proceed on schedule.
GAUL (screen): I don't understand.
JANEWAY: Only ten of your ships are going to engage the Turei. The others will head directly for the subspace corridors. I see no reason for those to be armed.
GAUL (screen): Something could go wrong. Why leave them defenseless?
JANEWAY: Voyager will defend them.
GAUL (screen): What prompted this change?
JANEWAY: You haven't been completely honest about your past, and that makes me a little uncertain about the present.
GAUL (screen): Gedrin.
GEDRIN: I suggest you listen to her.
GAUL (screen): Request denied, Captain.
JANEWAY: It's not a request. You can call it an ultimatum if you like.
GAUL (screen): Unacceptable.
JANEWAY: I'm going to leave this planet in one hour, with or without you.
GAUL (screen): We did not spend nine hundred years in stasis to take orders from you.

[Vaadwaur cave - central chamber]
GAUL: Contact the battalion. Tell them to prepare for the attack.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I don't know about the rest of you but I'm ready to get moving. What's our status?
PARIS: Impulse engines are online.
TUVOK: Shields at maximum. Weapons standing by.
JANEWAY: Tom, prepare to initiate the ascent sequence in
CHAKOTAY: Report!
KIM: Massive energy readings coming from the central chamber.
TUVOK: It's the Vaadwaur. They're launching the first wave of ships. Seventeen vessels have broken through the surface. They're at an altitude of two thousand meters and charging weapons.
PARIS: Ma'am, they're not ascending into orbit. They're heading straight for Voyager.
JANEWAY: Tom?
PARIS: Engaging thrusters. Initiating ascent sequence.
TUVOK: Vaadwaur ships approaching off our starboard bow.
JANEWAY: Target phasers, full spread.
PARIS: We're airborne.
CHAKOTAY: What altitude do we need on this planet, Tom, before we can go to warp?
PARIS: We'll have to clear the thermosphere. Two hundred and eighty kilometers at least.
TUVOK: Shields at ninety two percent.
JANEWAY: Phasers.
TUVOK: We've disabled four of their ships.
CHAKOTAY: They've launched another thirty nine vessels.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers.
PARIS: It's no use. They're closing on all sides.
KIM: Direct hit to the port thrusters.
PARIS: We're losing altitude.
JANEWAY: Reroute emergency power. We need to get into orbit.
TUVOK: Targeting sensors offline. Switching to manual.
JANEWAY: Harry, can you open a secure channel to the Turei ships in orbit?
KIM: Yes, ma'am, but that would give away our position. They could lock on with plasma charges.
JANEWAY: I think it's time we reacquaint a couple of old friends. Hail them.

[Vaadwaur caves - central chamber]
MORIN: Voyager's shields are weakening but they're gaining altitude again. They're approaching the thermosphere.
GAUL: Launch another squadron.

[Bridge]
PARIS: We've got nine more fighters on our tail.
TUVOK: Aft shields down to twenty percent.
KIM: Captain, the Turei are responding.
JANEWAY: Put them through.
TUREI (screen): What do you want?
JANEWAY: I've got a proposition for you.
TUREI (screen): No more talk. Prepare to be bordered.
JANEWAY: Tell me, have you been picking up weapons fire?
TUREI (screen): We have detected some unusual energy signatures, yes.
JANEWAY: That's because we're under attack by the Vaadwaur.
TUREI (screen): Impossible. They were destroyed centuries ago.
GEDRIN: Some of us have survived.
JANEWAY: They've got over two hundred ships. They said something about wanting their subspace corridors back. I suggest we join forces and try to neutralize the threat here and now. What's more important to you? Deleting the records of a Federation ship that means you no harm, or defending yourselves against hundreds of Vaadwaur fighters who are determined to invade your underspace? I suggest you pick your enemy.
TUREI: Our sensors can't penetrate the atmosphere. How can we fight an enemy we can't see?
CHAKOTAY: We have access to one of their surveillance satellites. We could use it to transmit their vital coordinates to you.
TUREI (screen): If this is a deception
KIM: I'm having trouble establishing a link with the satellite. Our sensor array took heavy damage.
GEDRIN: I could access it from the underground control chamber. Transport me there. Not all of my people are stuck in the past, Captain.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, go with him.

[Vaadwaur caves - central chamber]
MORIN: We've impacted their hull. There are breaches in progress on two decks.
GAUL: They'll have to reroute power from their shields to seal them. They'll have no choice but to put down. Have our ground forces ready.

[Bridge]
KIM: We've lost impulse engines and navigation.
PARIS: Thrusters are failing. We're losing altitude.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, status. Tuvok?
KIM: I've lost the signal.
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Initiate emergency landing procedures, and arm yourselves. If the Vaadwaur board this ship, we'll fight them hand to hand if we have to.

[Vaadwaur caves - central chamber]
MORIN: Once we've secured Voyager, execute the crew.
GAUL: Wait. We have hundreds of bio-pods still intact. Put them into stasis. In a few hundred years, maybe someone will be kind enough to revive them.
GAUL: What is that?
MORIN: It's a plasma charge. It came from orbit. It's the Turei. They've isolated our location.
GAUL: How?
MORIN: One of the surveillances satellite has been activated.
GAUL: Shut it down.

[Vaadwaur caves - control chamber]
GEDRIN: They're blocking my commands. I'm rotating the carrier frequencies.
TUVOK: The chamber is destabilizing. We must evacuate.
GEDRIN: Not yet. If we're going to succeed, I need to transmit the signatures of our fighters to the Turei. You go.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Six Vaadwaur ships were just destroyed by the Turei. The others are breaking off their attack.
JANEWAY: Impulse engines?
PARIS: Still offline.
JANEWAY: How about emergency power?
KIM: Barely enough for life support, Captain.
JANEWAY: Harry, the radiogenic particles in the atmosphere. Could we use them as a power source?
KIM: We'd have to modify the warp core's conversion matrix. It could take hours.
JANEWAY: What if we drew the particles directly into our plasma manifold?
PARIS: That would give us one hell of a boost.
KIM: It could also blow out every power relay on the ship.
JANEWAY: Damned if we do, damned if we don't. Open the forward nacelle ports and reverse the pressure gradient. Take in six hundred kilograms.

[Vaadwaur caves - central chamber]
VAADWAUR: The chamber's collapsing, sir.
GAUL: We'll take as many ships as we can. Try to reach the subspace corridor.

[Bridge]
KIM: Particle concentration at three thousand parts per million.
JANEWAY: Release the manifold.
PARIS: Rerouting plasma to the power conduits. We have impulse.
JANEWAY: Take us up.
KIM: Thirteen power relays just blew out on deck six.
JANEWAY: Steady.
PARIS: We're crossing the thermosphere.
JANEWAY: Any sign of pursuit?
CHAKOTAY: None. Looks like the Vaadwaur have their hands full.
JANEWAY: Altitude?
PARIS: Two hundred and sixty kilometers, two hundred and seventy. We've cleared the thermosphere.
JANEWAY: Go to warp, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. Captain's log, stardate 53167.9. After two days, there's been no sign of the Vaadwaur or the Turei. However, Seven of Nine has made an unsettling discovery.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: How many ships?
SEVEN: Astrometrics scans detected fifty three ion signatures entering the corridors. All Vaadwaur.
JANEWAY: The underground chambers?
SEVEN: They were destroyed by the Turei bombardment. Captain, I believe I made an error in judgment.
JANEWAY: Oh?
SEVEN: By awakening Gedrin, I initiated a chain of events that nearly led to our destruction. I wanted to help revive a civilization, not start a war.
JANEWAY: You thought you were acting out of compassion. I might have done the same thing. But that doesn't make it right, Seven. The repercussions of this could be catastrophic.
SEVEN: Their technology is nine centuries out of date. Their plans for conquest are irrelevant.
JANEWAY: They're a resourceful species, determined. They'll adapt. I doubt we've seen the last of them.

[Ares IV Command module]
KELLY: Ares Four to Kumagawa. How was the sunrise from down there?
KUMAGAWA (voiceover): Beautiful. There was a little green mixed in today. It was really quite spectacular.
KELLY: Sorry I missed it.
KUMAGAWA (voiceover): Next time, Lieutenant.
KELLY: Any luck drilling through that lava plain?
KUMAGAWA (voiceover): Roger that. We broke through the iron oxide barrier and we're down to eight meters.
NOVAKOVICH (voiceover): We should have some samples by the end of the day if all goes well.
KELLY: On to more important matters. Received an uplink from Houston. The Yankees won game five of the World Series.
KUMAGAWA: You owe me twenty bucks.
KELLY: It's not over yet. There's still game six. We won't be the only ones making history today. Bokai just broke DiMaggio's record.
NOVAKOVICH (voiceover): I don't believe it.
KELLY: If you ask me, Houston's been manipulating the stats.
KUMAGAWA (voiceover): They do have a few too many Kings fans at mission control.
KELLY: Well, how else do you explain Bokai beating out the Yankee Clipper?
KUMAGAWA (voiceover): Commander? We lost you for a second there.
KELLY: The ride got a little bumpy. Stand by. Picking up some turbulence.
NOVAKOVICH (voiceover): At your altitude?
KELLY: Checking LIDAR. What the hell?
KUMAGAWA (voiceover): John, what's going on?
KELLY: There's an object closing on my position, azimuth one twenty one point six. Whatever it is, it's huge. It's over a thousand meters across.
NOVAKOVICH (voiceover): How could something that big appear out of nowhere?
KELLY: I don't know, but I'm getting out of its way. Firing thrusters.
KUMAGAWA (voiceover): It's probably just a solar flare.
KELLY: Let's hope so.
KELLY: It's no solar flare. Stardate 53292.7.

[Chakotay's quarters]
CHAKOTAY: Come in. Come in!
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to the bridge.
CREWMAN (voiceover): This is transporter room two.
CHAKOTAY: I'm trying to reach the bridge.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Your comm. signal was routed here, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Can you patch me through?
NEELIX (voiceover): Pardon me. Where? Patch you through where?
CHAKOTAY: Neelix?
NEELIX (voiceover): Commander?
CREW (voiceover): Check on the field generators.
WOMAN (voiceover): Control seven, return to base at once.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Computer, locate Neelix.
MAN (voiceover): I can't get through to Engineering.

[Engineering]
CHAKOTAY: I see you're making some changes to the computer core.
SEVEN: I have enhanced the command sequencers with Borg algorithms.
CHAKOTAY: Well, your enhancements are wreaking havoc with our secondary systems.
SEVEN: Insignificant malfunctions. I will correct them.
CHAKOTAY: I don't recall authorizing any modifications.
SEVEN: The computer core is inefficient. It needed to be improved.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your initiative, but that's not up to you.
SEVEN: I've explained the value of these enhancements on several occasions, but Lieutenant Torres chose to ignore me. I thought a demonstration would be more persuasive.
CHAKOTAY: Well, I doubt this one's going to change her mind.
SEVEN: Clearly Voyager is not yet ready for assimilation. A joke. The doctor suggested that I defuse tense situations with humor.
CHAKOTAY: Good idea. Now how about getting these systems back up again so I can get back to my book.
SEVEN: We are experiencing a ship-wide power drain. This is unrelated to my modifications.
KIM (voiceover): Senior officers to the bridge.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: It's two in the morning, Ensign. This better be more than a little turbulence.
KIM: You won't be disappointed. We've got level nine gravimetric distortions closing on our position.
TUVOK: They're emanating from subspace.
JANEWAY: On screen. Shields.
PARIS: It's heading right toward us.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers.
CHAKOTAY: Captain.
JANEWAY: Say good morning to thirty million terajoules of subspace energy.
PARIS: This thing is following us. I can't outrun it at impulse.
JANEWAY: Go to warp.
PARIS: It's disrupting our warp field.
KIM: If it gets any closer the gravimetric stresses are going to rip the plating off our hull.
SEVEN: Captain, I recognize this phenomenon. It's Borg designation is spatial anomaly five two one. It's attracted to objects that emit electromagnetic energy. We have to cut power and reverse our shield polarity.
JANEWAY: Do it.
PARIS: That was close.
JANEWAY: I recognize this anomaly too. It's called a graviton ellipse. According to the Federation Database it travels through subspace, emerging occasionally without warning. Ellipses have only been observed a handful of times.
CHAKOTAY: Ares Four.
TUVOK: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: One of the early Mars missions. The Command module and its pilot were engulfed by a similar phenomenon back in 2032.
PARIS: I remember reading about that. Two astronauts were stranded on the surface for weeks before a rescue ship arrived.
CHAKOTAY: No one's gotten this close to a graviton ellipse and lived to tell about it. This could be a remarkable opportunity.
JANEWAY: Go to yellow alert. Keep our power output at minimum levels. Match it's course and speed but maintain a safe distance.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: I suggest we launch a probe. See if we can find out what makes this thing tick.
JANEWAY: Make it fast. There's no telling when our visitor's going to burrow back into subspace.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I'm receiving telemetry from the probe. It appears to have entered a stable core within the anomaly. The gravimetric forces are negligible.
TUVOK: The eye of the storm.
SEVEN: An apt metaphor.
TUVOK: Computer, run a multispectral analysis of the anomaly's core.
COMPUTER: Analysis in progress.
SEVEN: The Borg developed shields to get through the gravimetric currents. They intended to dissipate the anomaly from within. Perhaps we should continue their efforts.
TUVOK: It would be short-sighted to destroy it. We should study the phenomenon.
SEVEN: I didn't realize you shared this crew's penchant for exploration.
TUVOK: I am a Starfleet officer.
SEVEN: When the risks outweigh the potential gain, exploration is illogical.
TUVOK: We can't predict what we might find here, Seven. One must allow for the unexpected discovery.
COMPUTER: Core analysis complete.
SEVEN: There are more that two point eight billion compounds in the core.
TUVOK: Fascinating.
SEVEN: The computer has isolated several synthetic compounds native to sector zero zero one.
TUVOK: Titanium and polymer composites. These materials date back to the twenty first century. They were used in the construction of Earth's early spacecraft.
SEVEN: Commander Chakotay mentioned a space capsule that was consumed by a graviton ellipse.
TUVOK: These alloys are consistent with the hull of that capsule. An unexpected discovery indeed.

[Briefing room]
TORRES: She was forty six meters, ninety two metric tons, powered by a third generation ion drive, and equipped with a transpectral imager.
CHAKOTAY: Ares Four was piloted by Lieutenant John Kelly. His ground team, astronauts Rose Kumagawa and Andrei Novakovich, were close to completing their survey mission when Kelly reported an object closing on his position. Then he and the command module disappeared off NASA's LIDAR scopes.
PARIS: And into the history books. That incident almost derailed the Mars program.
TUVOK: Mankind's first encounter with a spatial anomaly.
CHAKOTAY: Seven, you said the Borg were working on a way to get inside a graviton ellipse.
SEVEN: Shield enhancements.
PARIS: Well, maybe we could apply the same enhancements to the Flyer.
SEVEN: Captain, do you intend to try to find the command module?
JANEWAY: Or what's left of it.
TUVOK: By my calculations, we have less than sixteen hours before the anomaly goes back into subspace.
JANEWAY: Then we have to work quickly. Harry, B'Elanna, help Seven modify the Flyer's shields. Tom, review the database from the Ares Four mission. It might tell us something about this anomaly we've missed. We're going to need a mission leader.
CHAKOTAY: I volunteer.
JANEWAY: I thought you might. Let's do it.
JANEWAY: Something on your mind, Seven?
SEVEN: The anomaly is as dangerous and unpredictable now as it was three hundred years ago.
JANEWAY: But the Delta Flyer's a little more advanced than the Ares Four was. We'll be taking every precaution.
SEVEN: That may not be enough.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your concern but, this is my call.
SEVEN: Searching for the command module seems more sentimental than scientific.
JANEWAY: I can't argue with that. If scientific knowledge was all we were after, then the Federation would have built a fleet of probes, not starships. Exploration is about seeing things with your own eyes. In this case, we're exploring the past.
SEVEN: How will retrieving this artifact enhance your appreciation of history?
JANEWAY: By making us part of it. In the same way that excavating the obelisks of ancient Vulcan, or finding the shroud of Kahless made those explorers a part of their history. Here's the crux of it. As a Borg, you didn't study the past, you ingested it. You've never really developed an appreciation for humanity's history. Maybe this is an opportunity to do some exploring of your own.
SEVEN: Are you ordering me to join this mission?
JANEWAY: Let's just say I'm encouraging you to volunteer.

[Astrometrics lab]
KELLY (screen): It's no solar flare. Wow!
KUMAGAWA (voiceover): John, can you describe it?
KELLY (screen): It's at least a thousand meters wide. Bright.
NOVAKOVICH (voiceover): Your transmission's breaking up.
KELLY (screen): It's generating an electromagnetic radiation, interfering with primary systems. I can't get away from it. Activating the transpectral imager. I'll record as much data as I can. It's right on top of me. I'll transmit as much as I can.
PARIS: That's all she wrote.
CHAKOTAY: NASA received Kelly's last telemetry at oh nine twenty two hours, October 19th, 2032.
PARIS: I thought I was the Mars buff. You seem to know more about the Ares Four than I do.
CHAKOTAY: The Mars missions paved the way for the exploration of space. Kelly was one of my childhood heroes.
PARIS: Mine too.
CHAKOTAY: That's dedication. The man's life is about to end, but he won't stop taking readings.
PARIS: Makes you wonder if those old-timers were made of sterner stuff than we are.
CHAKOTAY: You think we have it easy?
PARIS: You kidding? Warp drive, shields, transporters. We're traveling in the lap of luxury.
CHAKOTAY: Kelly and Kumagawa, Armstrong and Glenn, they were the real pioneers.
SEVEN: Am I interrupting?
PARIS: We were just admiring someone. Fellow explorer.
SEVEN: Hero worship. The glorification of an individual's accomplishment.
CHAKOTAY: I guess you didn't have many role models growing up.
SEVEN: In the Collective, personal accomplishments are irrelevant. The shield modifications to the Flyer are complete. We're ready for launch.
CHAKOTAY: We?
SEVEN: You'll need someone familiar with Borg technology to monitor the shields. I'm volunteering.
PARIS: You don't sound too happy about it.
SEVEN: I'm not, but this mission can benefit from my expertise.
CHAKOTAY: In that case, welcome aboard.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I'm preparing an inoculant to counter the effects of gravimetric radiation. Of course, if you were a hologram, you'd simply adjust your mobile emitter. That's what I did on Arakis Prime, one of my first away missions.
SEVEN: I don't recall that.
EMH: This was before you came aboard. Such an enchanting planet. Crystalline glaciers, magnesium vapor atmosphere. I had to stop my metallurgical scans just to admire the sheer beauty of it. To smell the roses, to coin a phrase.
SEVEN: An inefficient use of your time.
EMH: Perhaps. We're all finished here, except for one thing. Would you record some images when you're inside the ellipse, for those of us not lucky enough to make the trip?
SEVEN: You envy my participation in this mission?
EMH: There isn't a crewman aboard who doesn't.
SEVEN: Why?
EMH: I can only tell you how I felt that morning when I materialized on Arakis Prime. I left my footprints in the magnesite dust and thought, one small step for a hologram, one giant leap for mankind.
SEVEN: To coin a phrase.
EMH: Well, I know the sentiment isn't exactly original, but the fact is, I was exhilarated.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Seven of Nine. Report to Shuttlebay two.
EMH: Good luck.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: We're approaching the perimeter in five, four, three, two, one.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: We're within two thousand kilometers. Gravimetric interference is increasing.
TORRES: It's nothing compared to what they're going through. They're really getting knocked around in there.
KIM: Their shields have weakened but they're still holding.
JANEWAY: Harry, keep your finger on that tractor beam in case we have to pull them out.
TORRES: They're approaching the anomaly's core. We've lost sensor contact.
JANEWAY: Harry.
KIM: The comm. link is still active.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: The gravimetric shear is increasing.
SEVEN: I'm reading diminished turbulence directly ahead.
CHAKOTAY: Full thrusters, Tom. Punch us through. Chakotay to Voyager. We're in.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I wish you could see this, Captain, it's incredible.
JANEWAY: We're all ears.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): It's very calm. No gravimetric distortions. The EM activity is creating a natural luminescence. Tom called it mood lighting.
PARIS (voiceover): Hey B'Elanna, it's the perfect romantic getaway.
TORRES: I'll take your word for it.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We've detected asteroid fragments, pieces of vessels, matter from every quadrant of the galaxy. Next time I lose something I'll know where to look. Instead of a graviton ellipse we should call it the kitchen sink anomaly. The chemical interactions have even created a primitive atmosphere.
PARIS (voiceover): Nothing you'd want to breathe, of course.
JANEWAY: What do you make of it, Seven?
SEVEN (voiceover): Well, I suppose it's intriguing. Some of the matter appears to be extra-dimensional in origin.
KIM: Sounds like this anomaly's gotten around.
JANEWAY: Any sign of the Ares command module?
PARIS (voiceover): We're picking up traces of the hull, but our sensor readings are being refracted by all the debris in here.
TUVOK: That was a gravimetric surge caused by the anomaly changing course by point zero zero six degrees.
JANEWAY: We just had a big jolt out here.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We didn't feel a thing.
JANEWAY: By our estimate you have five hours thirty six minutes before the anomaly returns to subspace.

[Delta Flyer]
JANEWAY (voiceover): You'd better get a move on.
CHAKOTAY: Understood.
SEVEN: I'm having difficulty isolating the debris from the command module.
PARIS: I'll lay in a search pattern. It may take a couple of hours to cover an area this large.
CHAKOTAY: Seven and I can use the time to take some samples, get a better idea of where this anomaly's been.
SEVEN: We should focus on achieving our objective and returning to Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: We're not here just to find a module. We've got an opportunity to
SEVEN: Explore. I am familiar with our mission.
CHAKOTAY: In that case, let's get started.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
SEVEN: The fossilized microbes in this ore appear to have had metallic membranes.
CHAKOTAY: We've speculated about the possibility of metallic lifeforms, but we've never discovered one.
SEVEN: You're excited by this discovery?
CHAKOTAY: This piece of rock is billions of years older than Earth, from a time when the galaxy was still forming. Here.
SEVEN: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Take it. You're holding a piece of history. Maybe even the beginnings of life itself.
SEVEN: Unlikely.
CHAKOTAY: It's more likely than you think. This anomaly is as old as anything we've ever encountered. I could spend a lifetime studying the things it's collected.
SEVEN: And leave Voyager without a First Officer?
CHAKOTAY: They'd manage. Paleontology was always my first love. It's the reason I joined Starfleet.
SEVEN: Why didn't you pursue it?
CHAKOTAY: My sense of responsibility got in the way. First the Maquis, then Voyager. What I wanted to be always seemed to take a back seat. Do you remember what you wanted to be before you were assimilated?
SEVEN: I was assimilated when I was a child.
CHAKOTAY: I knew I wanted to be a paleontologist when I was six.
SEVEN: A ballerina.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe it's not too late.
SEVEN: It was a juvenile fantasy.
CHAKOTAY: Those are the ones that stick with you.
PARIS (voiceover): Heads up, folks. I think we're getting close.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
PARIS: I've isolated the module, bearing thirty nine mark one five. There.
SEVEN: It appears to be intact.
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading hull breaches and corrosion, but all things considered it's pretty well preserved.
PARIS: We weren't expecting to find a fragment this big. Can't just stow it in the aft section.
CHAKOTAY: We'll use a tractor beam to tow it back to Voyager.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, the anomaly just made another course change, point zero zero three degrees.
JANEWAY: That's the third one in an hour. Something has to be attracting it.
TORRES: There's nothing on the sensors.
JANEWAY: I think it enjoys being unpredictable.
KIM: We know it has a taste for electromagnetic energy.
JANEWAY: So what could generate an EM field large enough to get it's attention, but still not show up on sensors?
KIM: An energy burst from a pulsar, a neutrino cloud.
TORRES: Dark matter.
JANEWAY: Realign the sensor array to scan for EM fluctuations.
TORRES: I've got a spatial disturbance three million kilometers away. It's a dark matter asteroid.
JANEWAY: Bingo.
KIM: The anomaly's heading right for it.
JANEWAY: Time to impact?
TUVOK: Four minutes. Captain, we can't predict how the impact will affect the anomaly.
TORRES: But it's a safe bet it won't be a gentle nudge.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Delta Flyer, we've

[Delta Flyer]
JANEWAY (voiceover): got a problem. The anomaly is on a collision course with a dark matter asteroid.
CHAKOTAY: We've located the Mars orbiter. We're adapting a tractor beam.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Give us a minute.
JANEWAY: You don't have it. Get out of there.

[Delta Flyer]
CHAKOTAY: Captain?

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Now.

[Delta Flyer]
CHAKOTAY: Is the tractor beam ready?
PARIS: Just about, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Lock onto the module and take us out.
SEVEN: We don't have time.
CHAKOTAY: I gave you an order.
SEVEN: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: We're not leaving without that module. Tom!

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, both the anomaly and the asteroid are accelerating.
JANEWAY: They're attracting each other like a pair of magnets.
TORRES: At this rate it'll impact in fifty six seconds.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, you've got less than a minute.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: The module is slowing us down.
CHAKOTAY: Maintain tractor lock. How long until we clear the anomaly?
SEVEN: At our current speed, forty seconds.
CHAKOTAY: We can do it.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Thirty seconds to impact. They're still not clear.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, status.

[Delta Flyer]
CHAKOTAY: We're on our way.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Twenty seconds.
TUVOK: Gravimetric distortions are increasing.
JANEWAY: The Flyer?
KIM: I've lost the signal.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
SEVEN: How badly is he damaged?
PARIS: He's got a severe concussion and internal injuries. We need to get him back to Voyager.
SEVEN: That may not be possible. Communications, shields and propulsion are still offline.
PARIS: He's stable for now. I'll give you a hand.
SEVEN: We can repair the shields, but the engines are unsalvageable.
PARIS: It can't be that bad.
SEVEN: It's worse. The ellipse showing signs of returning to subspace. We have less than two hours.
PARIS: He's regaining consciousness. Easy, easy. Lie still.
CHAKOTAY: It feels like I just went ten rounds with an Andorian.
PARIS: More like twenty. You were hit with a plasma discharge. The gravimetric surge from the asteroid caught us at the edge of the anomaly and tossed us back inside.
CHAKOTAY: The command module?
PARIS: It's adrift, three hundred meters off our port bow.
CHAKOTAY: Then we can still salvage it.
PARIS: Not so fast. We can't get engines or shields back online, not to mention a tractor beam. We'll be lucky to get out of this in one piece.
CHAKOTAY: I can help.
PARIS: You're in worse shape than this ship. You want to help? Lie in the bed, doctor's orders.
SEVEN: Another gravimetric surge.
PARIS: I'll see if I can reinforce the structural integrity field.
CHAKOTAY: You might try drawing power from auxiliary life support.
SEVEN: That system was damaged as well.
CHAKOTAY: What about the secondary relays?
SEVEN: They're offline.
CHAKOTAY: That doesn't leave us many choices. Try rerouting the phaser couplings.
SEVEN: We explored that option while you were unconscious.
CHAKOTAY: Then maybe you can bring me up to date.
SEVEN: There's no time. I suggest you recuperate. We have the situation under control.
CHAKOTAY: It doesn't look that way from here. I'm still in command of this mission. I want to know what's going on.
SEVEN: Very well. We were ordered by the Captain to leave this anomaly, but you chose to disobey that command. As a result of your obsession with the module, we are now trapped along with it. In all probability we won't survive without
CHAKOTAY: Point taken. Now why don't you continue, without the attitude.
SEVEN: An inventory of the damaged systems. Read it for yourself.
CHAKOTAY: I made a mistake. I put the mission at risk.
SEVEN: You put our lives at risk.
CHAKOTAY: Well, if we don't make it out, someone's bound to come looking for us in a few hundred years. Defusing a tense situation with humor, remember?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Voyager to Delta Flyer.
SEVEN: They're using a probe as a transmission relay.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Voyager to Chakotay, please respond. We can't detect you.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we can hear you.
SEVEN: I'm matching their frequency. Voyager, this is the Delta Flyer. Respond.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Are you all right? What's your status?
CHAKOTAY: We've sustained heavy damage, Captain, but we're alive. It's good to hear your voice.

[Briefing room]
KIM: We could install the same shielding on a class two shuttle and take it in.
PARIS (voiceover): It took us hours to make the modifications

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
PARIS: To the Flyer. We've only got eighty two minutes before this thing disappears into subspace.

[Briefing room]
TUVOK: It may be possible to modify a tractor beam to cut through the gravimetric interference.
KIM: You'll never be able to get it all the way through to the core.
JANEWAY: Start working on it anyway.
TORRES: You said all the energy conduits are fused?
SEVEN (voiceover): Correct.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
SEVEN: We can't get power to any of the primary systems.
PARIS: If the replicators were working we could whip up a new plasma manifold

[Briefing room]
PARIS (voiceover): And be on our way.
TORRES: What if I could get you an old manifold?
PARIS (voiceover): Excuse me?
TORRES: The command module may be three centuries old, but the power distribution system isn't that different from the Flyer's. Right here. This control panel in the main cockpit. It was called an ion distributor. With a few tweaks it could be modified to channel warp plasma.
SEVEN (voiceover): Even if it were possible, we have to obtain the object

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
SEVEN: Before we can adapt it.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Do you have enough

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Power to beam one of you to the module?

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. I'll go.
JANEWAY: Not so fast, Tom. If another gravimetric surge hits, we'll need you at the helm. Seven.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
SEVEN: Are you encouraging me to volunteer again, Captain?

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: You read my mind.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
PARIS: Come on, just a little closer. That's it for thrusters

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
PARIS (voiceover): But I got us within transporter range. Ready?
SEVEN: Stand by.
CHAKOTAY: Ironic. You're doing what I've always dreamt of. Remember, when you set foot in that module, you'll be stepping into history.
SEVEN: History is irrelevant.
CHAKOTAY: Irrelevant? Do me a favor. When you're over there, download whatever you can from their database. And also take a minute to look around, so you can tell us what it was like.
SEVEN: There may not be time, but I'll try.
CHAKOTAY: Good luck.

[Ares Four Command Module]
PARIS (voiceover): What's it like in there?
SEVEN: Dark. The ambient temperature is minus two hundred sixty degrees. There appear to be fractures in the aft bulkheads.
PARIS (voiceover): Is the cockpit intact?
SEVEN: Yes.
SEVEN: I've brought the main computer online.
KELLY (voiceover): I've lost contact with the team on the surface, and I can't get a fix on my position.
PARIS (voiceover): What was that?
SEVEN: There's an active data file.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
SEVEN (voiceover): It appears to contain log entries.
CHAKOTAY: Can you play them for us?

[Ares Four Command Module]
SEVEN: I believe so.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
CHAKOTAY: Consider it my last request.

[Ares Four Command Module]
KELLY (screen): And I can't get a fix on my position. But I'm alive and the CM seems to be intact. I'm inside this

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
KELLY (voiceover): Whatever it is.
PARIS: Could you hear that, Chakotay?

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
CHAKOTAY: It's amazing. Everyone assumed he was killed instantly.

[Ares Four Command Module]
KELLY (screen): What I've gotten myself into. It's very calm, like I'm in the eye of a hurricane. It's a little spooky but the way I figure it.

[2032 - Ares Four Command Module]
KELLY: If there's a way in, there's got to be a way out. I'm gonna fire up the spectral imager before I initiate another engine burn, collect as much data as I can. Jeannie, I may not be bringing you back the Mars rock, but I promise you, I'm going to do everything I can to get home.
KELLY: Ares Four, mission record, October 23rd. I'm starting to feel like Jonah. How long was he in the belly of that whale? Three days? I got him beat by a day or two already. The EM interference is disrupting communications and LIDAR, and I can't see the stars. There's no way I can get a fix on my position. If this thing's moving as fast as it was when it pulled me in, I could be a long way from Mars by now. The imager's been working overtime cataloging all the matter in here, but a lot of it defies analysis. I think we're going to need to make room on the periodic table. Where the hell am I? Power levels have dropped another fifteen percent since my last systems check.
KELLY: I think I just saw another spacecraft. Either that, or all this dehydrated food has gone to my head. I've got it. The hull's made of some kind of alloy. I can't make heads or tails of it. I shouldn't have been so dismissive.

[Ares Four Command Module]
KELLY (screen): I remember giving Kumagawa a hard time when she claimed she saw a UFO over the Gulf. I told her it was a meteor or another piece of MIR. I guess I owe you an apology, Rose. Ares Four, mission record, October 25th. It's been a nice place to visit

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
KELLY (voiceover): But I'm ready to come home. I've prepped the ion drive, channeled all the thruster reserves into the main tank.

[2032 - Ares Four Command Module]
KELLY: I have enough fuel for one last engine burn. Wish me luck.
KELLY: Ignition sequence. Five, four, three, two. I'm losing pitch control. Gyros aren't responding. Power failure. I've got to abort. I'm not going to make it.

[Ares Four Command Module]
KELLY (screen): All systems go. Watch me, Dad, I'm flying. Boom. Bad landing. Call the MedEvac team. Ha.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
PARIS: Paris to Seven. Status?

[Ares Four Command Module]
SEVEN: I've located the device, but it's fused to the hull. Stand by.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
PARIS: Make it quick. We've got less than fifteen minutes.

[Ares Four Command Module]
SEVEN: Understood.

[2032. Ares Four Command Module]
KELLY: All systems go. Watch me Dad, I'm flying. Boom. Bad landing. Call the MedEvac team. Ha. John Kelly's first flight, not exactly A-OK. Remember that, Dad? I jumped off the roof with a parachute made of blankets. I guess I didn't calculate the aerodynamics. Of course, I was only six. I guess

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
KELLY (voiceover): This is John Kelly's last flight. This time, I can't blame it on pilot error. This time, no regrets.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
KELLY (voiceover): Oh, what I've seen proves we were right to come out here.

[Ares Four Command Module]
KELLY (screen): We're not alone, I know that now. The module's losing power. I'm taking life support offline.

[2032 - Ares Four Command Module]
KELLY: Rerouting whatever's left to the imager. Keep it running as long as possible. Mission Control, Dad, whoever finds this, do me a favor. Take all the data I've collected. Put it to good use. I hope you don't look at this as a failure. I don't.

[Ares Four Command Module]
KELLY (screen): Actually, I do have one regret. I never found out who won the World Series. I'm tired, and I can't
PARIS (voiceover): Paris to Seven. how's it going over there?
SEVEN: I have the distributor. I'm downloading Lieutenant Kelly's database.
PARIS (voiceover): Hurry. we're running out of time.
SEVEN: Lock onto my bio-signature and my comm. badge.
PARIS (voiceover): Seven?
SEVEN: Energize.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Delta Flyer, report.
PARIS (voiceover): We're trying to integrate the distributor. Stand by, Captain.
JANEWAY: How long do they have?
TUVOK: Four minutes.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
PARIS: Try bypassing the power couplings.
SEVEN: No effect.
PARIS: Resequence the ion modulators, see if that does it.
SEVEN: Power conversion in process.
PARIS: We have propulsion, shields.
SEVEN: The plasma flow is still fluctuating.
PARIS: Stay on top of it. Paris to Voyager.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
PARIS: Open the shuttlebay doors. We're coming home.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Acknowledged.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
PARIS: Laying in an escape trajectory.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The ellipse is returning to subspace.
JANEWAY: The Flyer?
KIM: They're approaching the perimeter. Two thousand meters, eighteen hundred.
TORRES: The anomaly's submerging.
JANEWAY: Are we in tractor range?
TUVOK: Not yet.
JANEWAY: Take us closer.
TORRES: Captain?
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: They're still out of reach. Another three hundred meters.
JANEWAY: Closer.
TORRES: We'll be pulled right in with them.
JANEWAY: Just a few more meters.
TORRES: We're too close.
TUVOK: I've got a lock.
JANEWAY: Reverse thrusters, full impulse.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 53301.2. The away team collected over sixty teraquads of data on the anomaly. Before we begin to analyze them, we've decided to pay our respects to an old colleague.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Space. Literally it means nothing, a vacuum between stars and planets, but by the same token it means everything. It's what connects all our worlds, Vulcan, Kronos, Talax, Earth. Centuries ago, mankind sent its first wave of explorers into that void. Astronauts like Mister Kelly. They paved the way for the first colonies, the first starships, for those of us who've made space our home. We commend the spirit and the bravery of Lieutenant John Mark Kelly as we commit his body to space. He will not be forgotten.
SEVEN: Captain. I did not know this individual. Had I encountered him while I was a Borg I would have found his technology unworthy of assimilation. But we are more alike than one might think. In a sense, his desire to explore was not unlike a quest for perfection.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN (voiceover): His contribution helped secure humanity's future, and in some ways, my own.

[Bridge]
SEVEN: The Yankees, in six games.
TUVOK: All hands, attention. Honor guard.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman. State your purpose here.
NAOMI: I was waiting for you. Kadis-kot, remember? Our weekly game?
SEVEN: Reschedule for tomorrow. I'm working now.
NAOMI: Redecorating isn't work.
SEVEN: Esthetics are irrelevant. I'm modifying the alcove to function as a cortical processing sub-unit.
NAOMI: That was my next guess.
SEVEN: Then I won't need to explain its purpose.
NAOMI: Okay, you win. What do you do with a cortical processing er
SEVEN: Sub-unit. On Borg vessels, there's one in each Unimatrix. It downloads newly assimilated data to the drones.
NAOMI: But Voyager isn't a Borg vessel, and you're not a drone anymore.
SEVEN: Voyager collects a great deal of information. Sensor scans, navigational projections, engineering updates, away team reports, scientific analyzes.
NAOMI: The results of our Kadis-kot tournament?
SEVEN: That, too. The crew must read and study this information. An inefficient procedure. These data nodes are downloading the information into the alcove.
NAOMI: Which is going to download it into you.
SEVEN: Precisely. In a matter of hours, I will assimilate several months worth of data.
NAOMI: Can I try it sometime?
SEVEN: Your physiology is different from mine.
NAOMI: Guess I'll stick to reading my lessons and listening to Neelix tell stories.
SEVEN: I will see you tomorrow.
NAOMI: Can I watch? Okay, tomorrow.

[Janeway's quarters]
COMPUTER: Warning. Plate is hot.
JANEWAY: Now you tell me. You go for authenticity and what do you get? Second-degree burns.
JANEWAY: ( I've been slaving over that replicator program for hours. What was this bizarre rumor I heard about half the crew on deck five getting pregnant?
CHAKOTAY: Oh, that. The Doctor was running generational projections on the Sickbay computer. Tom Paris happened to glance at the monitor and jumped to conclusions. Wasn't long before Neelix was asking me if he could turn Cargo Bay one into a nursery.
JANEWAY: Word travels fast on this ship, hmm?
CHAKOTAY: Warp ten. Oh, by the way, I meant to tell you. There's a Class K nebula twenty five light years off starboard. We should take a look.
JANEWAY: A major detour for a minor nebula.
CHAKOTAY: We are explorers, remember?
JANEWAY: Permission granted.
JANEWAY: Main course. A recipe I've never tried. But we are explorers, remember.

[Cargo Bay two]
COMPUTER: Regeneration cycle complete.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Lieutenant Torres. Lieutenant Torres, respond.
TORRES (voiceover): Good morning, Seven. This better be important.
SEVEN: I must speak with you at once.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I'm picking up some interesting graviton fluctuations about ten light years away.
TUVOK: Can you be more specific?
JANEWAY: Not at this distance. Tom, alter course. I want to take a closer look.
PARIS: Chakotay had his heart set on that nebula we're headed for.
JANEWAY: He'll have to wait.
TORRES: Captain, I need permission to shut down the sensor grid. Seven thinks a couple of insects are disrupting the power flow.
SEVEN: A mating pair of photonic fleas, to be more accurate, and possibly their offspring.
JANEWAY: And how did you arrive at this theory?
SEVEN: Last night, I downloaded six months of ship status reports into my new cortical sub-unit while I was regenerating.
PARIS: Learn while you sleep. I tried that once, It gave me a headache.
JANEWAY: Go on.
SEVEN: Eight weeks ago, an away team encountered a Kartelan freighter carrying supplies from sector four nine two, a territory that included a former Talaxian colony. Mister Neelix used the opportunity to acquire twelve kilograms of amber spice, a delicacy among his people.
TORRES: What does that have to do with the sensor grid?
SEVEN: On the same day, Ensign Kim was repairing a replicator in the Mess hall.
KIM: I remember that. Neelix told me to stick around and try something he was cooking.
SEVEN: No doubt made with the amber spice, which contained the larvae of the photonic fleas.
TORRES: How could you possibly know that?
SEVEN: Because I also downloaded data regarding their life cycles. The larvae flew out of the spice jar in search of their primary source of nourishment, plasma particles. The conduits within the nearby sensor grid contain an unlimited supply of these particles. Ensign Kim had unwittingly given the creatures access by exposing the grid. The now mature creatures periodically tap into the conduit for nourishment. When they do, the sensor emitters momentarily lose their resolution.
TUVOK: A logical, though highly speculative, analysis.

[Jefferies tube]
JANEWAY: Let's find a more suitable home for them.

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm picking up graviton fluctuations.
JANEWAY: Take us out of warp. On screen.
PARIS: Anybody want to hazard a guess?
TUVOK: They are hailing us.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TASH (screen): I recommend maximum shielding. There are a few technical issues I haven't worked out yet.
KIM: There's a massive graviton surge coming from that thing.
TUVOK: Shields to full.
JANEWAY: Your apparatus appears to be destabilizing.
TASH (screen): If I don't find a way to repair this power core they'll be able to see the explosion all the way to, er, where did you say you were from?
JANEWAY: I didn't, but we're from a planet called Earth.
TASH (screen): All the way to Earth.
CHAKOTAY: Can we ask you what it's supposed to do?
TASH (screen): Catapult a vessel across space, in the time it takes to say catapult a vessel across space. It'll make warp drive look like a wooden sledge.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can help you with that power core.
TASH (screen): Hmm?

[Briefing room]
TASH: The core sends a graviton surge through the projectors which locks onto a ship and sends it hurtling into null space, to emerge a few hours later hundreds, if not thousands, of light years away.
CHAKOTAY: I'm curious why you built this catapult.
TASH: Simple. I've been looking for a way to get home.
KIM: We know the feeling.
TASH: I'd been exploring an unstable wormhole. Before I knew it, I was here and my home planet was there. I was facing a journey of at least ten years. Instead, I decided to build a catapult.
TORRES: Have you tested it yet?
TASH: Two weeks ago I sent a probe nearly six hundred light years. But it destabilized the core. I've been trying to fix it ever since.
CHAKOTAY: We can send an Engineering team over to help you.
TASH: No, no, it's too dangerous. I wouldn't send my own crew in there.
KIM: Then we could find a way to adjust the core reaction from here.
TORRES: A few well-timed graviton pulses from our deflector dish might do it.
TASH: That's generous, but I have nothing to give in return.
JANEWAY: We're not asking for anything in return.
TASH: You could use the catapult after I've made my jump. It should still be functional. A thousand light years won't exactly get you back to Earth.
KIM: But it would cut a few years off our trip.
JANEWAY: If you're successful, and if I'm satisfied a jump would be safe for Voyager, then we'll take you up on that offer. Thank you. Let's get started.

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Good morning.
SEVEN: Perhaps not. The alien, Mister Tash, is trying to deceive us. His catapult is the same type of technology that was used to trap Voyager in the Delta Quadrant five years ago.
JANEWAY: I scanned the catapult myself. Sensors didn't pick up anything unusual. You spent the night in your new alcove.
SEVEN: Processing the same information and cross-referencing it with Voyager's database. When the catapult destabilized yesterday, Astrometric sensors recorded a momentary burst of epsilon radiation.
JANEWAY: Unusual, but not unheard of.
SEVEN: Epsilon radiation is one the by-products of a tetryon reactor. According to your own entries in the database, your only encounter with that kind of technology occurred five years ago in the Alpha Quadrant. A coherent tetryon beam locked onto Voyager, and you were hit by a massive displacement wave, which pulled you across seventy thousand light years in a matter of minutes. The source of that tetryon beam was the Caretaker's array. Mister Tash claims that his catapult will be able to do something very similar.
JANEWAY: He didn't want us to send over a repair team.
SEVEN: Out of concern for our safety. It's obvious he was trying to hide his tetryon reactor.
JANEWAY: The first time we met a Caretaker, we were pulled halfway across the galaxy. The second time we were almost killed. I'm not eager for a third round.

[Engineering]
TASH: Is this any way to treat a colleague?
EMH: Not so much as a molecule of Caretaker DNA.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Doctor. There's a tetryon reactor powering your catapult. You didn't want us to find it, did you? Unless you answer my questions, I'll resume course and you can ask somebody else for help.
TASH: I acquired the tetryon reactor at great cost. This territory is full of species who would do anything for such advanced technology, including steal it. I apologize for the deception, but you do understand.
JANEWAY: We made an agreement to cooperate. I see no reason not to continue.
TASH: Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: Keep me informed on your progress.
JANEWAY: That reactor had to come from somewhere. I can't just ignore the possibility of a Caretaker nearby. Keep scanning. See what you can find.
SEVEN: There is another possibility. The reactor may have come from the same array that brought Voyager to the Delta Quadrant.
JANEWAY: That's a long shot, Seven.
SEVEN: Maybe not. Again, according to your own reports you believed the only way to keep the array from falling into the wrong hands was to destroy it. It's possible the destruction was incomplete.
JANEWAY: And one of the reactors survived? We scanned for debris. There was nothing left but some fused pieces of metal alloy.
SEVEN: I wish to re-examine the sensor records from that event.
JANEWAY: In case we were mistaken?
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: Go right ahead.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Computer, describe the debris remaining after the array was destroyed.
COMPUTER: Particulate dust and metallic fragments composed of an unknown alloy. Vapor composed of hydrogen, helium, mercury and argon.
SEVEN: Was there anything left of the tetryon reactor?
COMPUTER: Negative.
SEVEN: Specify the yield of the tricobalt device.
COMPUTER: Twenty thousand teracochranes.
SEVEN: Who programmed the device?
COMPUTER: Commander Tuvok.
SEVEN: Display the detonation. Advance the image by point zero one seconds. Again.
SEVEN: Isolate grid three seven and magnify.
SEVEN: Is that a tractor beam?
COMPUTER: Insufficient sensor data.
SEVEN: Identify its source.
COMPUTER: Insufficient sensor data.
SEVEN: Identify the isolated section of the array.
COMPUTER: Secondary power core.
SEVEN: Which contained a tetryon reactor.
COMPUTER: Affirmative.

[Bridge]
SEVEN: Commander, I've been reviewing the data on the destruction of the Caretaker's array. Unfortunately, the sensor records are incomplete.
PARIS: I don't doubt it. We were being attacked by the Kazon. Half the ship's systems were down.
SEVEN: A single Kazon vessel.
PARIS: Armed to the teeth.
SEVEN: Commander, you fired the tricobalt charge that destroyed the array.
TUVOK: Correct.
SEVEN: Under the Captain's orders. Did you also program the charge?
TUVOK: Yes.
SEVEN: Under the Captain's orders as well?
TUVOK: Not directly. I determined the yield.
SEVEN: Twenty thousand teracochranes.
TUVOK: That's correct.
SEVEN: According to sensor estimates of the array's hull integrity, a charge of half that yield would have been sufficient.
TUVOK: The Captain wanted nothing left for the Kazon to use. I calculated a yield certain to produce that result.
SEVEN: Something may have escaped the blast. One of the tetryon reactors.
PARIS: But we scanned for debris.
SEVEN: The charge you detonated tore an opening in subspace.
PARIS: And that's where the reactor went?
SEVEN: Yes.
PARIS: How?
SEVEN: It was pushed there by a tractor beam.
TUVOK: Do you have evidence of a tractor beam?
SEVEN: Perhaps.
TUVOK: Speculation is not evidence. There was no tractor beam, because there was no ship in the vicinity to generate one, unless you can prove otherwise.
SEVEN: Thank you, Commander.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Looking for a midnight snack?
SEVEN: I require information. I'm attempting to determine whether the catapult technology was derived from the Caretaker's array.
NEELIX: So I heard. A fascinating theory. It's got my mind spinning.
SEVEN: How long were you in the vicinity of the array before Voyager arrived?
NEELIX: About a year. Kes was on a nearby planet and, er, we were getting very close.
SEVEN: Did you ever encounter the Caretaker directly?
NEELIX: Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no. In my opinion, any being powerful enough to grab ships from the other side of the galaxy should be avoided.
SEVEN: According to Voyager's database, he claimed he was searching for a genetically compatible mate. Did you believe that explanation?
NEELIX: I had no reason to doubt it, though it did seem a bit excessive. I mean, all those ships.
SEVEN: What happened to them?
NEELIX: Well, after he sampled the crew's DNA he sent them back where they came from, I suppose. You know, Kes always thought something more was going on, but she had quite an imagination.
SEVEN: Were there any other ships in the area after Voyager arrived?
NEELIX: Only the Kazon.
SEVEN: But the Caretaker could have pulled in another vessel. A cloaked ship, perhaps.
NEELIX: Seven, what are you getting at?
SEVEN: A third ship, hidden from both Voyager and the Kazon.
NEELIX: What was it doing there?
SEVEN: Preventing the tetryon reactor from being destroyed.
NEELIX: Kes was right. Something was going on.
SEVEN: Voyager's sensor logs were damaged in the Kazon attack. I can't be certain.
NEELIX: Maybe I can help. The sensor records on my ship weren't damaged. I can give them to you.

[Bridge]
KIM: The tetryon reaction is stable. Graviton field is set for a one hundred light year jump.
CHAKOTAY: The catapult's locking onto him.
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
TASH (screen): I'll contact you the moment I re-enter normal space. Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: My pleasure.
KIM: Catapult is at full power.
TASH (screen): Goodbye to you all.
TUVOK: Final launch sequence has been initiated.
KIM: He's gone.
JANEWAY: How long before we can expect to hear from him?
TUVOK: If his vessel survived, one or two hours.
SEVEN (voiceover): Seven of Nine to Commander Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
SEVEN (voiceover): I require your assistance in the Astrometrics lab.
CHAKOTAY: On my way.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Computer, seal the doors. Deactivate all sensors within this room.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.
CHAKOTAY: What's this about?
SEVEN: I believe Voyager's presence in the Delta Quadrant is no accident. You and the crew have been stranded here intentionally.
CHAKOTAY: By whom?
SEVEN: Captain Janeway. The Captain and Tuvok were involved in a Federation conspiracy. They're in collusion with the Caretaker and possibly the Cardassians.
CHAKOTAY: I see. And the point of this conspiracy?
SEVEN: I believe they're attempting to establish a military presence in the Delta Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: That's quite a theory. Perhaps you haven't heard of the Jankata Accord?
SEVEN: No species shall enter another quadrant for the purpose of territorial expansion.
CHAKOTAY: The Federation signed it, the Cardassians signed it, and Captain Janeway would be the last person to violate it.
SEVEN: Improbable as it may sound, I've found compelling evidence to support my theory.
CHAKOTAY: What kind of evidence?
SEVEN: I've analyzed over thirty million teraquads of data regarding Voyager's activities over the past five years. It's quite clear that we've been the victim of an elaborate deception.
CHAKOTAY: I don't have the benefit of a cortical processor. Why don't you give me the abridged version?
SEVEN: In the months before Voyager's arrival, Neelix recorded the appearance of fifty two vessels, including this one.
CHAKOTAY: A Cardassian warship.
SEVEN: A remarkable coincidence. Only days before Voyager's arrival, the Cardassians were already in the Delta Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: The Caretaker was trying to find a mate, remember? He was pulling ships from all over the galaxy.
SEVEN: I'm familiar with the Caretaker's actions. In each instance, he would examine the crews' DNA, and when he failed to find a genetic match he would release the vessel. But in this instance, Neelix's sensors indicated the ship vanished. Obviously, it was returned to the Alpha Quadrant. Why?
CHAKOTAY: You seem to have all the answers.
SEVEN: I believe the Cardassians were sent back to deliver strategic information regarding the Delta Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: Conjecture.
SEVEN: Extrapolation.
CHAKOTAY: I can believe the Cardassians might be involved in this, but not Starfleet.
SEVEN: There are precedents for unauthorized missions of this type, Commander. According to the Federation database, the Maquis were victims of several of them.
CHAKOTAY: All right, you've got my attention. You said that Tuvok and Captain Janeway were involved. Tell me how.
SEVEN: At the same time the Cardassians were meeting with the Caretaker, your Maquis vessel was infiltrated with a Starfleet agent.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok.
SEVEN: Your navigator. He guided your ship to prearranged coordinates in the Badlands, where the Caretaker locked onto you. Once you were pulled into the Delta Quadrant, Tuvok could have secretly transmitted final instructions to the Caretaker. A short time later, Captain Janeway guided Voyager to the same coordinates and was also pulled into the Delta Quadrant. All of these events took place within a matter of days. I find that suspicious.
CHAKOTAY: I'll admit the timing seems a little convenient, but that doesn't mean there was a master plan.
SEVEN: Why did the Captain destroy the array?
CHAKOTAY: So the Kazon couldn't use it to attack the Ocampa.
SEVEN: That's what she told the crew, but I believe she intended to remain in the Delta Quadrant all along. If the Array had remained intact, you and all the others would have insisted on using it to return home.
CHAKOTAY: She was keeping it from the Kazon.
SEVEN: The Captain ordered Commander Tuvok to destroy the array. He fired two tricobalt devices. Are those weapons normally carried on Federation Starships?
CHAKOTAY: No.
SEVEN: Yet they were part of Voyager's arsenal. Why?
CHAKOTAY: I can't explain that.
SEVEN: I can. Neither phasers nor torpedoes are capable of creating a tear in subspace. A tricobalt device is. As Tuvok detonated the device, a cloaked ship locked on to one of the array's tetryon reactors and pushed it through the tear into subspace, protecting it from the blast and hiding it from Voyager's sensors. But the Captain and Tuvok knew exactly where it was going. Once Voyager left the area, the reactor was retrieved and began a similar journey, carried by a series of vessels until it was finally delivered to Mister Tash.
CHAKOTAY: Who used it to build the catapult.
SEVEN: He was waiting here for Voyager, and for the final phase of the mission.
CHAKOTAY: Which is what, exactly?
SEVEN: I don't think Captain Janeway is planning to use the catapult to get Voyager closer to home. I think she's going to use it to bring in more vessels from the Alpha Quadrant. If I'm correct, this region of space will soon be occupied by a Federation-Cardassian invasion force.
CHAKOTAY: You've uncovered some interesting facts. But your interpretation is far-fetched. These are random incidents. Granted, some of them are hard to explain, but there's no conspiracy here.
SEVEN: Stardate 51008, Captain Janeway allows Kes to leave Voyager. Neelix told me that Kes had suspicions about the Caretaker. Was the captain trying to silence her? Stardate 51462, the Doctor's program is transmitted to a Starfleet vessel on the outskirts of the Alpha Quadrant. An attempt by the Captain to contact Earth or a secret communiqué informing Starfleet of her progress? Stardate 50984, Janeway forges an alliance with the Borg. Stardate 51762, a cease-fire with the Hirogen. Stardate 52861, a non-aggression pact with the Terkellians. She called each incident diplomacy. I believe she was trying to establish a tactical infrastructure in the Delta Quadrant. Over the past five years, Captain Janeway has altered course two hundred sixty three times in the name of exploration. In reality, she was mapping the region and collecting strategic data regarding
CHAKOTAY: I get the point.
SEVEN: You still doubt my suspicions, but can you be certain I'm wrong?
CHAKOTAY: Absolutely certain? No.
SEVEN: Until you are, you mustn't allow Captain Janeway to retain control of the catapult.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I'm picking up a transmission, heavily distorted.
KIM: He made it.
JANEWAY: Can you clear it up?
TASH (screen): Success, Captain. Five thousand light years.
JANEWAY: Are you all right?
TASH (screen): A few systems overloaded, nothing serious. I had to readjust my shields during mid-flight. Almost lost my outer hull. I'm sending you the modifications. My catapult is yours, Captain. Good luck.
JANEWAY: Get that data down to B'Elanna. Tell her to enhance our shields.
CHAKOTAY: So we're going ahead with the jump?
JANEWAY: I want to run a few more tests, launch some probes, but if it all checks out I see no reason not to.
KIM: I've received the telemetry.
CHAKOTAY: I'll take it to Engineering.

[Engineering]
CHAKOTAY: I want you to add a point zero three variance to these shield modifications.
TORRES: That'll disrupt the emitters.
CHAKOTAY: And you'll need another six hours to get them back online. I know.
TORRES: Have you run this by the Captain?
CHAKOTAY: No, and I'm not going to. Not yet.
TORRES: She's pulling your leg. It's got to be some kind of Borg practical joke.
CHAKOTAY: She wasn't joking.
TORRES: A secret mission? Starfleet in league with the Caretaker? It's ridiculous.
CHAKOTAY: Ridiculous? Seven has some compelling evidence.
TORRES: Well then, let's go to the Captain, get a straight answer.
CHAKOTAY: Good morning, Kathryn. All systems are operational. The crew's in good health. And by the way, is it true you've been lying to us for five years? I'm not prepared to make that accusation, but I can't ignore what I've heard either.
TORRES: So what do you suggest?
CHAKOTAY: I want you to delay those shield modifications. That'll give me time to check Seven's database, take a look at the evidence myself.
KIM: The Captain asked me to work with you on the shields.
CHAKOTAY: That won't be necessary, Ensign.
KIM: Oh, I don't mind. You know how eager she is to make that jump.
TORRES: Harry, we're fine here.
CHAKOTAY: Too many cooks, Harry. You know how it is. We'll let you know when we're done.

[Cargo Bay two]
COMPUTER: Download complete.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
SEVEN: I need to speak with you in the Astrometrics lab.
JANEWAY (voiceover): I'm on my way.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Computer, seal the door and deactivate internal sensors to this room.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: Seven?
SEVEN: I believe Chakotay and other members of your crew are involved in a conspiracy to resurrect the Maquis rebellion.
JANEWAY: Did Chakotay put you up to this?
SEVEN: Voyager and the Federation itself are in grave danger.
JANEWAY: Go on.
SEVEN: I've concluded that Chakotay intends to use the catapult to launch attacks against Cardassian and Federation starships.
JANEWAY: Chakotay gave up his allegiance to the Maquis a long time ago. What you're saying makes no sense.
SEVEN: Improbable as it may sound, I found compelling evidence to support my theory. In the months before Voyager's arrival, Neelix recorded the sudden appearance of fifty two vessels, including this one.
JANEWAY: A Cardassian warship.
SEVEN: I've analyzed the hull geometry and warp signature. It was one of the same ships that were pursuing Chakotay and his crew in the region known as the Badlands. It was pulled into the Delta Quadrant by the Caretaker during that engagement. According to Federation records, that same Cardassian warship was found destroyed in the Badlands. The investigation revealed that it was attacked by the Maquis. I believe that for some unknown reason the Caretaker had sent this ship back to the Alpha Quadrant, and that Commander Chakotay attacked the vessel before it could reach its destination. He downloaded its computer core and discovered the presence of the Caretaker's array. He realized that the array could be used by the Maquis as a weapon, to launch surprise attacks against Cardassian and Starfleet vessels.
JANEWAY: Well, I commend you for your imagination, but Tuvok was a spy on Chakotay's ship. If your theory were true, he would have known about it.
SEVEN: He does. Tuvok has been collaborating with the Maquis resistance all along.
JANEWAY: That's not possible, Seven.
SEVEN: With Tuvok's assistance Chakotay plotted a course toward the next likely appearance of the Caretaker's displacement wave, offering his vessel as bait. His ploy almost succeeded, but the Caretaker was more powerful than he anticipated. His crew was taken captive. A few days later, Voyager arrived and facilitated their escape. Chakotay seized that opportunity to make one last attempt to gain control of the array, but then you gave the order to destroy it.
JANEWAY: Circumstantial evidence, not proof.
SEVEN: Who carried out your order to destroy the array?
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
SEVEN: Using what type of technology?
JANEWAY: Tricobalt devices.
SEVEN: He set the yield to twenty thousand teracochranes. It was enough to tear an opening in subspace. A cloaked ship locked on to one of the reactors, protecting it from the blast and hiding it from Voyager's sensors. The reactor was retrieved and carried by a series of vessels until it was delivered to Mister Tash, who was well compensated by Chakotay to build the catapult. He was waiting here for Voyager so Chakotay could complete the mission he was forced to abandon five years ago.
JANEWAY: I'd be willing to consider this theory of yours if I didn't know Chakotay as well as I do. There is no one on this ship I trust more. What you've done here is build what we call a house of cards.
SEVEN: Stardate 48658. Commander Seska is revealed to be a Cardassian spy. She defects to the Kazon and impregnates herself with Chakotay's DNA. Was he unaware of the procedure, as he claims, or were they working together, to create a new Kazon sect to capture Voyager? Stardate 49522. Chakotay recommends establishing trade relations with the Kolhari. Their technology uses tetryon power cells. A simple diplomatic overture, or was he seeking a source of energy for the catapult? Stardate 49571

[Corridor]
NAOMI: Seven.
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: Where are you going?
SEVEN: That's not your concern.
NAOMI: What's wrong?
SEVEN: Your father was Ktarian.
NAOMI: So?
SEVEN: The Ktarians were officially with the Federation, but they sympathized with the Maquis.
NAOMI: What are you talking about?
SEVEN: Who are you working for, Chakotay or the Captain?
NAOMI: Seven?
SEVEN: Tell them it's too late. Go!

[Cargo Bay two]
CHAKOTAY: I picked up a power surge coming from the Cargo bay.
JANEWAY: I detected the same thing. You think it's the enhanced alcove.
CHAKOTAY: Could be.
JANEWAY: Let's take a look. Are phasers standard equipment on board now?
CHAKOTAY: Must be.
JANEWAY: The data buffer's been activated.
CHAKOTAY: I wanted to make sure it wasn't malfunctioning.
JANEWAY: You should be careful. Somebody might think you were trying to delete a few files.
CHAKOTAY: Why would they think that?
JANEWAY: Some of those files could contain sensitive information.
CHAKOTAY: If that's true, somebody might think you were trying to do the same thing.
JANEWAY: That catapult out there, it's a powerful piece of technology. If the Maquis ever had access to something like it, they might have been successful.
CHAKOTAY: And if we had, your mission to the Delta Quadrant never would have gotten off the drawing board.
JANEWAY: What are you talking about?
CHAKOTAY: The mission you've been on for the last five years.
JANEWAY: My only mission is trying to get Voyager home.
CHAKOTAY: Seven showed me the sensor records. I saw the tractor beam.
JANEWAY: She showed me the same thing, but she implicated you in some kind of Maquis plot.
CHAKOTAY: Same evidence, two different theories.
JANEWAY: It all started with those damn photonic fleas. She was downloading Voyager's database.
KIM (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Harry.
KIM (voiceover): I just picked up an unauthorized launch of the Delta Flyer. Seven's at the helm.
JANEWAY: Set a pursuit course.
KIM (voiceover): Acknowledged.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to the Doctor.
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay here.
CHAKOTAY: Get down to Cargo Bay two. Run a diagnostic on Seven's alcove.
EMH (voiceover): On my way.
JANEWAY: I'm glad we got that settled.
CHAKOTAY: Likewise.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, let's keep this one out of our logs, huh?
CHAKOTAY: Gladly.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: She's altering course, heading for the catapult.
JANEWAY: Maintain pursuit. Open a channel.
TUVOK: No response.
CHAKOTAY: Try to beam her out.
KIM: She's done something to alter her bio-signature. I can't get a lock.
JANEWAY: Target her propulsion and weapons. Fire.
TUVOK: Our targeting scanners are out of alignment.
CHAKOTAY: She must have done it before she took off.
KIM: She's charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Keep trying.
EMH (voiceover): Doctor to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Report.
EMH (voiceover): Seven downloaded too much data into her cortical implant.

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: She's trying to make sense of more information than she can process.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Understood. Beam me onto the Delta Flyer.
CHAKOTAY: I'm going with you.
JANEWAY: No. I have a better chance of getting through to her alone.
CHAKOTAY: This isn't part of your mission, is it?
JANEWAY: Is it part of yours?
CHAKOTAY: Good luck.
JANEWAY: Energize.

[Delta Flyer]
SEVEN: Captain.
SEVEN: You came here hoping to stop me. You'll fail.
JANEWAY: Turn this ship around. That's an order.
SEVEN: Your orders are irrelevant. I'm no longer under your command. You deceived me.
JANEWAY: There is no conspiracy. There is no Maquis rebellion. The Federation isn't planning to invade the Delta Quadrant.
SEVEN: I realized that, because I finally uncovered your true objective.
JANEWAY: And what's that?
SEVEN: Me. Stardate 32611, the Federation sends my parents to study the Borg Collective. They know my family will be assimilated. That was their intention. Stardate 48317, Voyager is sent to the Delta Quadrant with orders to retrieve me. When they reach Borg space, Captain Janeway negotiates an alliance with the Collective in exchange for information regarding species 8472. They agree to give her Seven of Nine. Stardate 51030, Janeway extracts the implants from my body to remove any knowledge I have of her agreement with the Borg. Stardate 53329, Captain Janeway finalizes plans to use the catapult to deliver Seven of Nine to the Alpha quadrant, where Starfleet will dissect and analyze the drone to gather tactical data to fight the Borg. I won't allow you to complete your mission. If necessary I'll destroy the catapult, and myself.
JANEWAY: You're right, Seven. There is a conspiracy here. But I believe it's a conspiracy of one. I've got a theory of my own. Your modified alcove threw your synaptic patterns into chaos and your mind can't make sense of all the information, so you're generating theory after theory in an attempt to bring order to that chaos.
SEVEN: Your reasoning is flawed. My alcove is functioning perfectly.
JANEWAY: What about you? You're not a drone anymore. You can't always predict how Borg technology will affect you. You should be in Sickbay, not behind that forcefield. Let me help you.
SEVEN: No. I don't believe you.
JANEWAY: Of course you don't. Anything I say gets woven into your paranoid conspiracies. But you should believe me, Seven, because I've never lied to you, and I'm not lying to you now. You have to put your doubts aside and trust me. Stardate 51030, Seven of Nine is severed from the hive mind. The Captain tells her not to resist, that she'll learn to accept her humanity. Seven complies, and slowly begins to embrace her individuality. Does she regret that decision? Stardate 51652, the Captain encourages Seven to develop her social skills. Seven insists it's a waste of time, but after further requests she pursues it, and begins to develop her first human friendships. Did Janeway lead her astray? Stardate 52840, the Captain orders Seven to study her parents' journals. Seven claims they're irrelevant, but eventually she reads them and rediscovers part of her own past. Stardate 52841, for the first time, Seven tells the Captain thank you.
SEVEN: It was Stardate 52842, oh six hundred hours in the mess hall. We had just finished breakfast.
JANEWAY: My mistake. Stardate today, Janeway beams aboard the Delta Flyer. She reminds Seven of the bond that's grown between them. Seven lowers the forcefield and she decides to come home. All I'm asking is that you trust me again.
JANEWAY: Delta Flyer to Voyager. Two to beam out.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. After further testing, we activated the catapult and were hurtled across thirty sectors of space. In less than an hour, we cut three years off our journey. I'm happy to say the Doctor has repaired Seven of Nine's cortical processor and she's returned to duty.

[Cargo Bay two]
NAOMI: Guess who assimilated three books and ten reports in two days?
SEVEN: Naomi Wildman.
NAOMI: That's correct. Are you taking your new alcove apart?
SEVEN: Yes.
NAOMI: Why?
SEVEN: My attempt to download Voyager's database failed.
NAOMI: Maybe you can fix it.
SEVEN: The alcove functioned within expected parameters. Unfortunately, I did not. Three books and ten reports is impressive, but quantity is less relevant than quality. You must be able to interpret the data and enjoy the process. Regardless, you require activities other than assimilating books and reports. A game of Kadis-kot, for example.
NAOMI: When?
SEVEN: Go to the mess hall and set up the board. I'll join you when I'm finished.

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: I heard the strangest rumor today. Apparently, the Captain and First Officer almost came to blows.
CHAKOTAY: Mutiny?
JANEWAY: First Officer walked the plank. So I heard.
CHAKOTAY: I don't believe a word of it.
JANEWAY: Me neither.
CHAKOTAY: Seven was malfunctioning. We don't have that excuse.
JANEWAY: You're right. We've been through too much to stop trusting each other.
CHAKOTAY: You didn't poison the coffee, did you?
JANEWAY: Not any more than I usually do.

[Earth - Barclay's Apartment]
BARCLAY: Just a minute. I'll, I'll be right there.
BARCLAY: I'm coming, I'm coming. Deanna.
TROI: Hello, Reg.
BARCLAY: I'm so glad you could make it. It's wonderful to see you.
TROI: Would it be all right if I came inside?
BARCLAY: Yeah, of course, of course. Come in, come in. Is there something I can get you? Some er, some coffee, tea? Oh wait a minute, don't, don't tell me. Chocolate ice cream.
TROI: You know me too well. But just one scoop, I'm watching my figure.
BARCLAY: Why? You, you look lovely.
TROI: You always knew how to flatter me. Would you like me to get it?
BARCLAY: Get? Get what?
TROI: The ice cream.
BARCLAY: Right, right, the ice cream. No, no, no, no. Come in, come in. Sit down, make yourself comfortable.
TROI: It's a nice place.
BARCLAY: Thanks. One scoop of chocolate ice cream.
TROI: Did you just move in?
BARCLAY: No, no, I've been here, er, almost two years. I just haven't had a chance to unpack.
TROI: Is everything all right Reg?
BARCLAY: Of course, Why, why wouldn't it be?
TROI: To be honest, you seem a little on edge.
BARCLAY: Do I? Oh, it's just that I'm, I'm excited to see you.
TROI: I'm excited to see you, too. I think Geordi's a little disappointed I didn't invite him to come along.
BARCLAY: Yes, well, I, I was hoping to get, get together with him too, er, before the Enterprise leaves orbit, but I just wanted to spend time with you first. That's all right, isn't it?
TROI: Of course it is. I hear you've been working on the Pathfinder project.
BARCLAY: Well, I, I was. Er, I'm not anymore.
TROI: What happened?
BARCLAY: Oh, ah, nothing, really. Just got to be a lot of, er, pressure.
TROI: Well, hello.
BARCLAY: Neelix! He's not used to company. It's not polite to eat our guest's food. If you're hungry, just say so. Deanna, Neelix.
TROI: Neelix. That's an unusual name. Maybe we should introduce him to Data's cat, Spot. I have a feeling you didn't ask me here to reminisce. Tell me what's wrong.
BARCLAY: I've lost myself, Deanna.
TROI: Lost yourself?
BARCLAY: In Voyager. I've become obsessed with Voyager. Here you are on shore leave and what do I do? I lure you into a counseling session.
TROI: Don't worry about that. The important thing is, I'm here now and I want to help.
BARCLAY: Thank you.
TROI: Now, start at the beginning.
BARCLAY: Has it ever occurred to you that a tachyon beam directed at a class B itinerant pulsar could produce enough gravimetric energy to create an artificial singularity?
TROI: I can't say it has.
BARCLAY: It occurred to me. But my supervisors thought it was an abuse of MIDAS.
TROI: MIDAS?
BARCLAY: The Mutara Interdimensional Deep Space Transponder Array.
TROI: Reg, you're losing me.
BARCLAY: I'm sorry.
TROI: The beginning?
BARCLAY: The beginning. Right. Well, I suppose it all started in the holodeck. Doesn't it always?
TROI: Go on.
BARCLAY: Well I, I was running a few simulations.

[Starfleet Communications Research Center - Holodeck - Voyager Bridge]
BARCLAY: Computer, boost the gain on Voyager's transceiver by twenty percent.
COMPUTER: Transceiver gain is at maximum.
BARCLAY: Apply a narrowband filter to the signal processor.
COMPUTER: Filter engaged.
ADMIRAL PARIS (voiceover): Voyager, come in. Come in, Voyager. Voyager, come in, this is Starfleet Command. Voyager, come in, Voyager.
BARCLAY: Good, good, good. Now lower the filter band by point three kilohertz.
HARKINS: Reg, what are you doing?
BARCLAY: Oh, ah, er, Pete. I, I, I was just, er.
HARKINS: Yes, running another simulation. I can see that. What about the transmitter diagnostics?
BARCLAY: Right. The diagnostics.
HARKINS: You have finished them, haven't you?
BARCLAY: Er, almost.
HARKINS: Almost isn't good enough. We've got Admiral Paris first thing in the morning.
BARCLAY: Admiral Paris.
HARKINS: Don't tell me you forgot.
BARCLAY: Oh, no, of, of, of course not. I, I, I just got the days mixed up.
HARKINS: Reg.
BARCLAY: Computer, end program. Now that I think about it, it's a good thing that Admiral Paris is coming tomorrow. We can brief the Admiral on my theory.

[Pathfinder lab]
HARKINS: What theory?
BARCLAY: I've been going over the interstellar phenomena forecasts from Deep Space Nine. They are predicting er, a class B itinerant pulsar will pass within four billion kilometers of the MIDAS array in three days.
HARKINS: You think the pulsar might damage the array?
BARCLAY: No, no. The shields will hold. Actually I was thinking, we could use the pulsar to our own advantage.
HARKINS: How?
BARCLAY: Suppose, suppose we instructed the array to direct a tachyon beam at the pulsar. Theoretically, we could produce a gravimetric surge powerful enough to create an artificial wormhole. We could establish two way communication with Voyager.
HARKINS: Reg, you're dreaming again.
BARCLAY: No, no, I really think this could work. Based on my simulations that
HARKINS: Based on your last series of simulations, we wasted six months trying to develop that transwarp probe.
BARCLAY: This, this is different. This
HARKINS: Reg, I really appreciate your imagination. It's what makes you such a valuable part of this team. But I'm not about to tell the Admiral that we've found a way for him to chat with his son because of some cock-eyed theory that only exists up here. Now please, finish those diagnostics.
BARCLAY: Yes, sir.
HARKINS: And, Reg, remember, while the Admiral's here, I do the talking.
BARCLAY: You do the talking. Understood.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Pete was only trying to look out for me, but I was sure my plan would work. I just couldn't give it up.
HARKINS: Burning the midnight oil?
BARCLAY: I, I finished, er, the diagnostics, sir.
HARKINS: Yes. I know. I looked them over. Good job. Now, why don't you call it a day?
BARCLAY: I just, er, have a few more things to take care of.
HARKINS: Well, see you tomorrow, then. Oh,. Reg, why don't, why don't you drop by tonight when you're through here?
BARCLAY: Drop by?
HARKINS: Come to the house. Have some coffee. Angie's sister's in from Boston. I, er I think she might like you.
BARCLAY: I, I don't, I don't think I can er. I'm spending the evening with, er, Neelix.
HARKINS: Correct me if I'm wrong, Reg, but Neelix is your cat. Well, if you change your mind.
BARCLAY: Thanks. I'll try.
BARCLAY (voiceover): But I couldn't leave. Not until I'd strengthened my case for accessing the MIDAS array. The meeting with Admiral Paris was only fourteen hours away and I hadn't come up with anything. Poring over the data wasn't helping. I decided what I needed was, er, a little inspiration.
BARCLAY: Computer. Activate hologrid mess hall scenario Barclay eleven gamma.

[Holodeck - Voyager Mess hall]
PARIS: Hey, Reg.
CHAKOTAY: Warning. The shark is circling.
TORRES: Let the games begin.
KIM: What'll it be, Reg?
BARCLAY: The usual.
KIM: Computer, one milk, warm.
BARCLAY: Oh thanks, Harry.
KIM: Just trying to get on your good side so you'll go easy on me tonight.
BARCLAY: You know what I always say. If you can't stand the heat.
KIM: Get out of the warp core.
CHAKOTAY: Sit down, Lieutenant, and give us mortals a chance to get even. That's an order.
BARCLAY: If you insist, Commander, but I think it's only fair to warn you I have no intention of letting my winning streak come to an end. Now, where's er, Tuvok?
TORRES: He said it's illogical to continue losing to a clearly superior player.
BARCLAY: Oh, that's too bad. I love to watch that Vulcan squirm Now, you all know the rules. Deuces, one eyed Jacks and suicide kings are wild. Five of a kind beats a straight flush every time.
KIM: The man is ruthless.
PARIS: He's a killer.
BARCLAY: Now, come on, guys. You know it hurts me to see you lose. After all, you are my best friends.

[Barclay's apartment]
BARCLAY (voiceover): I hoped that the poker game would help calm my nerves, so that I could get a decent night's sleep before the briefing. But when I got home that night I couldn't keep my mind off Voyager. I needed to get back to the Holodeck.

[Holodeck - Voyager Sickbay]
BARCLAY: That feels so good.
EMH: Therapeutic massage can be an effective treatment for insomnia, Lieutenant, but we need to get to the cause of your sleeplessness if we're going to find a more permanent solution.
BARCLAY: It's just that every time I close my eyes, my mind starts to race.
EMH: Can you be more specific?
BARCLAY: Well, I worry about the project. Have I explored the problem from every angle, or is there something else I should be trying? Am I doing enough?
EMH: Hmm. Acute work related anxiety. Perhaps I should speak to the captain about reducing your schedule.
BARCLAY: Something tells me she's not going to be able to help.
EMH: You are an invaluable member of this crew, Mister Barclay.
BARCLAY: Thank you, Doctor. It's nice to be appreciated.

[Holodeck - Voyager Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Turning in, Reg?
BARCLAY: Yes, sir.
CREWMAN: Hey, Reg.
BARCLAY (voiceover): For some reason, I never slept in my apartment as comfortably as I did in my holographic quarters. I suppose I felt more at home on Voyager.

[Holodeck - Voyager Mess hall]
BARCLAY: Good morning, everyone.
KIM: Morning, Reg.
PARIS: You're awfully chipper.
BARCLAY: Slept like a baby.
KIM: Then maybe you've got the energy to whip up one of your famous cheese omelets.
PARIS: Oh, yeah. I'm starved.
BARCLAY: I'm sorry, guys, I have a very important briefing at oh nine hundred. Just have time for coffee.
KIM: Er, don't forget about tonight.
BARCLAY: Remind me.
KIM: You were supposed to teach me how to play Velocity.
PARIS: No, no way. Reg and I have a hoverball game scheduled.
BARCLAY: Don't fight. Plenty of me to go around.
TORRES: Reg, I'm sorry to bother you again, but I'm still having trouble with the warp core recalibration.
BARCLAY: It's no problem. I'll stop by Engineering later, talk you through.
TORRES: Thank you. I really appreciate it.
PARIS: Velocity, hoverball, warp core recalibrations? Reg, I don't know how you do it.
BARCLAY: Let you in on a little secret. There's two of me.

[Pathfinder lab]
HARKINS: The Delta Quadrant, sector 41751, grid nine. Voyager's doctor reported this as the ship's position when his program was briefly transferred to Starfleet two years ago. Assuming they're still on course for Earth, we've been able to extrapolate a range of likely trajectories. Estimating an average warp speed of six point two, and accounting for various astronomical obstacles, we can reasonably assume that Voyager is now in one of these three sectors.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Can we contact them?
HARKINS: As you know, we've been working with the Vulcans on the deployment of the MIDAS array. Though we're still in the testing phase, we think it won't be long before we can use this technology to send signals at hyper-subspace speeds. A message that would normally take years to reach its destination could be received by Voyager in a matter of days.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Impressive. Will they be able to respond?
HARKINS: No sir, but at least they'll know we're still looking for them. We'll send data on the hyper-subspace technology and hope they can eventually use it to return the call.
BARCLAY: Excuse me, Admiral Paris.
HARKINS: Lieutenant Barclay.
BARCLAY: I'm sorry, Commander, it's just that there may be a way to establish, er, two-way communication with Voyager.
HARKINS: Now is not the time.
ADMIRAL PARIS: It's all right, Mister Harkins, let the man speak. I'm all ears, son.
BARCLAY: Well, er, you see, there's a, er, class B itinerant, er, pulsar, er, and we well, as you probably know, sir, sir, neutrino emissions, ah. Oh, what I mean to say is that with the array, we could open an artificial er, s, a sing, singularity.
ADMIRAL PARIS: A wormhole?
BARCLAY: Yes, yes, sir. We could use it as a conduit to to talk to Voyager.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I can't give you high marks for clarity, Lieutenant, but you've certainly got my attention. Is there any merit to what he's saying?
HARKINS: Mister Barclay has a tendency to get ahead of himself, sir. Unfortunately, what he's suggesting is beyond our abilities.
BARCLAY: But you haven't even
HARKINS: Mister Barclay.
BARCLAY: I know that I haven't explained myself very well, but with all due respect, sir, what do we have to lose by trying? I think we're forgetting that there are a hundred and fifty people stranded in the Delta Quadrant.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I have a son on that ship, Lieutenant. I haven't forgotten that fact for a single moment.
BARCLAY: I'm sorry, sir. I, I didn't, er I didn't mean to.
HARKINS: Take the rest of the day off, Reg.
BARCLAY: But
HARKINS: That was not a suggestion.
TROI (voiceover): How did you deal with your feelings afterwards?

[Barclay's Apartment]
BARCLAY: What do you mean?
TROI: Well, did you talk to Commander Harkins after the meeting? Apologize?
BARCLAY: Well, no. I wanted to, er, fine tune my plan, so, I er, just went right back to work.
TROI: Be more specific. What exactly did you do?
BARCLAY: Well, I needed someone to, er bounce ideas off of. Someone to help focus my thoughts.
TROI: Sounds reasonable. I suppose you consulted with some of your Pathfinder colleagues.
BARCLAY: Well, not exactly.
TROI: You went back to the holodeck, didn't you?
BARCLAY: They're the only people that I can talk to.
TROI: They're not people.
BARCLAY: I know, but they, they help me with my work.
TROI: Poker? Massages? Sleeping in holographic quarters? Sounds more like escape than work.
BARCLAY: I can't concentrate if I'm not relaxd.
TROI: Can't you relax with your friends?
BARCLAY: Friends?
TROI: Commander Harkins invited you to his home. You went to the holodeck instead.
BARCLAY: It's not what you're thinking, Deanna. This isn't a relapse of my holo-addiction.
TROI: Okay. Tell me how the holograms helped you with your work.
BARCLAY: Well, I talked to them about my ideas. I worked out technical problems.

[Holodeck - Voyager Briefing room]
BARCLAY: I need specifics here, people.
JANEWAY: Take us through it again, Mister Barclay, one step at a time. Maybe it'll spark an idea.
BARCLAY: We've got our itinerant pulsar. We've got our Interdimensional transponder array. How do we get our wormhole?
TORRES: This one could keep us up all night.
BARCLAY: We know we can produce gravimetric energy, but, can we do it at levels high enough to create the singularity?
KIM: We're talking about a massive subspace reaction.
BARCLAY: Maybe that's the problem.
CHAKOTAY: Reg?
BARCLAY: Maybe we need to think smaller.
PARIS: You're losing me.
BARCLAY: And how much bandwidth do we really need? The average wormhole is huge, but if we compressed the datastream.
TORRES: We wouldn't need a conduit anywhere near as big.
JANEWAY: What's your idea?
BARCLAY: A micro-wormhole.
TUVOK: Impressive.
JANEWAY: You've outdone yourself this time, Reg.
BARCLAY: I'll still need, er, help with the details.
JANEWAY: Put together a team. Use whatever resources you need.

[Holodeck - Voyager Engineering]
BARCLAY: A power ratio of approximately sixty terawatts should do the trick.
CHAKOTAY: You think that's enough?
BARCLAY: Should be, but then we have to compensate for gravimetric interference.
TORRES: And how do we do that?
BARCLAY: I was thinking, what if we applied a narrowband filter to the transponder signal?
CHAKOTAY: Barclay strikes again.
HARKINS: What's going on here?
BARCLAY: Commander.
TORRES: Who's your friend, Reg?
HARKINS: Yes, aren't you going to introduce me?
BARCLAY: Computer, delete characters.
HARKINS: I thought I told you to go home.
BARCLAY: I was, er, working.
HARKINS: You call this work? You've created holograms of the Voyager crew.
BARCLAY: Oh, it, it, it, it's not what you think. It's an interactive, er, diagnostic program. I designed it to help me solve problems.
HARKINS: How long have you been in here?
BARCLAY: Since the briefing.
HARKINS: The briefing ended ten hours ago.
BARCLAY: I, I know that I embarrassed you in front of the Admiral, and I'm, I'm sorry. I wanted to refine my idea so that I could present you with a specific plan. And I've done that, Pete. You were right about the wormhole idea being too expansive. So I've, I've scaled it back.
HARKINS: All the extra time you've been putting in. If I checked the holo-logs, would I find you've been spending those hours in here?
BARCLAY: Well, not, not all that time.
HARKINS: How much of it?
BARCLAY: Maybe, er, twenty or thirty hours a week.
HARKINS: Don't you think that's a little excessive?
BARCLAY: Not if it helps us contact Voyager.
HARKINS: Before I brought you onto my team I reviewed your file. You've struggled with holo-addiction before. From where I stand it looks like you've had a relapse.
BARCLAY: I know it it may look that way.
HARKINS: I think you need counseling.
BARCLAY: What I need is for you to pay attention to my ideas.
HARKINS: I should have been paying more attention to your behavior. I thought I was being a friend by giving you some leeway. I didn't realize how involved you've become with Voyager.
BARCLAY: Is it really so wrong? Do you have any idea what it must be like for them to be stranded sixty thousand light years from home? Do you have any idea how lonely that must be?
HARKINS: I'm sorry, Reg, but until you get some help, you're off the project.
BARCLAY: You, you can't do that.
HARKINS: You've given me no choice. This hologrid and the lab are officially off limits. Now go home.
BARCLAY: I won't leave. Not until you've heard what I have to say.
HARKINS: Reg! Don't make me call security.

[Starfleet Command]
PARIS: What is it, Nicole?
NICOLE (voiceover): He's still here.
ADMIRAL PARIS: You told him I have a meeting scheduled at fifteen hundred?
NICOLE (voiceover): Yes, sir. He won't go away.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Send him in.
NICOLE (voiceover): Yes, sir.
BARCLAY: Admiral, er, thank you, thank you for seeing me.
ADMIRAL PARIS: You're frightening my secretary, Mister Barclay. You have five minutes.
BARCLAY: Five minutes. Right.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Sit down.
BARCLAY: Er, first, first I, I want to apologize for speaking out of turn yesterday. It's, it's only because I, I, I care so much about Voyager.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Yes, Commander Harkins has informed me about your attachment to the crew. I understand you've been spending time with a holographic re-creation of my son, among others. Frankly, I find that rather disturbing.
BARCLAY: Well, I understand how, how you could see it that way but, er, that does not negate the fact that I have a plan for communicating with Voyager.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Commander Harkins doesn't seem to think your plan is viable.
BARCLAY: I have refined the idea. I've simplified it. All I'm asking for is a chance to try. And if I'm right, it could mean a chance to talk to Tom.
ADMIRAL PARIS: In my opinion, Commander Harkins removed you from the project with good cause, and that's his prerogative. I won't let my personal feelings interfere with Starfleet procedure.
BARCLAY: I, I've broken protocol and I should be punished, but the crew of the Voyager shouldn't be, and neither, neither should you. I just need access to the lab for one more day. After that, if I er, if I'm wrong, I'll resign my commission.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I'll order a review of your findings. If it's concluded your ideas are valid, I'll instruct Commander Harkins to pursue it.
BARCLAY: But I'm the one who knows the
ADMIRAL PARIS: That's the best I can do, Mister Barclay. Good day.

[Barclay's Apartment]
TROI: So the meeting went well?
BARCLAY: No, no, no. It didn't, not at all.
TROI: The Admiral said he'd review your findings.
BARCLAY: Don't you see? He was just trying to get rid of me, just like Harkins.
TROI: Try to relax.
BARCLAY: Now you understand why I need your help.
TROI: Yes, I do.
BARCLAY: You, you have to call the Admiral in your official capacity as a Starfleet Counselor and tell him that I am psychologically fit to return to work.
TROI: I can't do that.
BARCLAY: Why not?
TROI: Look at yourself. You're experiencing acute anxiety, sleeplessness, paranoia. You did what you could. Now it's time to let Starfleet worry about Voyager. We need to take care of you.
BARCLAY: There is nothing wrong with me!
TROI: You said yourself you've become obsessed with Voyager.
BARCLAY: What if I have? If an obsession helps me to do my job better, it's a sacrifice I am willing to make. A little instability in exchange for contact with a stranded starship. Isn't Voyager more important than my psychological condition?
TROI: Voyager is important, but so are you.
BARCLAY: That ship, that crew, they're all I have.
TROI: Tell me why that is.
BARCLAY: Ever, ever since I, I left the Enterprise, things haven't, haven't been the same. It's as if I lost my family.
TROI: So you created a new family on the holodeck. Only they're not real.
BARCLAY: I didn't know how else, how else to cope.
TROI: Do you remember when you first came aboard the Enterprise? You had trouble fitting in, didn't you? But after a while you started to make friends. You can learn to do the same thing here on Earth.
BARCLAY: Oh, I, I don't know how.
TROI: We'll work on it together.
BARCLAY: You're scheduled to depart tomorrow.
TROI: I've decided to ask Captain Picard for a temporary leave of absence. To spend some time with an old friend.
BARCLAY: Oh, Deanna, you, you, you don't, you don't have to do that.
TROI: Try and stop me.
BARCLAY: I'm sorry, Neelix. I have to leave. No, no, you can't talk me out of it.

[Outside Pathfinder lab]
COMPUTER: Authorisation code required.
BARCLAY: Barclay alpha one seven gamma.
COMPUTER: Access denied. That code has been de-authorized.
BARCLAY: Computer, re-enter authorisation code Barclay alpha one seven gamma.
COMPUTER: Access authorized.

[Pathfinder lab]
BARCLAY: Computer, interface with the MIDAS array. Activate the control matrix.
COMPUTER: Matrix activated.
BARCLAY: Full power to the graviton emitters.
COMPUTER: Emitters powering.
BARCLAY: Scan the area surrounding the array for a class B itinerant pulsar.
COMPUTER: A pulsar has been detected at coordinates two two seven by four one mark six.
BARCLAY: Good, good! Direct a sixty terawatt tachyon beam toward the pulsar.
COMPUTER: Tachyon beam initiated.
BARCLAY: How long until levels are sufficient to produce a gravimetric surge of five million teradynes?
COMPUTER: Approximately seventeen minutes.
BARCLAY: Computer, is there a micro-wormhole present at coordinates three four three by two seven?
COMPUTER: Scanning. Affirmative.
BARCLAY: I knew it. Adjust the phase alignment to direct the wormhole's trajectory to Delta Quadrant, grid nine, sector 41751.
COMPUTER: Trajectory established.
BARCLAY: Open Starfleet Emergency Channel and transmit toward the singularity.
COMPUTER: Channel open.
BARCLAY: Starfleet Command to USS Voyager. Come in, Voyager. Voyager, do you hear me? This is Lieutenant Reginald Barclay.
HARKINS: Step away from the controls.
BARCLAY: Pete. I, I've sent a message.
HARKINS: Stand down, Mister Barclay.
BARCLAY: All right, you win. Computer, transfer controls to hologrid program Barclay pi three and restrict access.
HARKINS: Stop him. Stun him if you have to.

[Holodeck - Voyager Corridor]
BARCLAY: Tuvok. Did you see those two men?
TUVOK: I did not.
BARCLAY: Well they look like Starfleet security, but they're not.
TUVOK: Intruders?
BARCLAY: They're after me. I need your help.
TUVOK: Tuvok to all hands. Intruder alert. Computer, locate any unauthorized personnel aboard Voyager.
COMPUTER: Two unidentified humans, deck four, section eight.
TUVOK: Isolate them with force fields.

[Pathfinder lab]
SECURITY (voiceover): Security to Commander Harkins. We've been isolated by the forcefields. Can you shut down the program?
HARKINS: I'm working on it.
COMPUTER: Access denied. Hologrid controls have been encrypted.
HARKINS: Harkins to Security. I need reinforcements.

[Holodeck - Voyager Engineering]
BARCLAY: Computer, redirect the wormhole's trajectory to Delta Quadrant, grid 11, sector 64238 and retransmit the message.
COMPUTER: Trajectory established. Transmitting.
TORRES: A wormhole? What's going on?
BARCLAY: I'm just trying to help some friends. Is there a response?
COMPUTER: Negative.
BARCLAY: Computer, redirect the wormhole's trajectory.
TORRES: Reg.
SECURITY 2: You'll have to come with me, sir.
TORRES: I'll cover for you.

[Holodeck - Jefferies tube]
BARCLAY: Computer, seal Jefferies tube door J53.

[Pathfinder lab]
HARKINS: Computer, cut all power to the hologrid.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Main power controls have been encrypted.
HARKINS: Very clever, Reg.
SECURITY 2 (voiceover): Security to Commander Harkins. We've lost him, sir.
HARKINS: I've got an idea. I'm coming in.

[Holodeck - Voyager Engineering]
TORRES: I know you. You're Reg's friend. You've got something to do with what's going on here, don't you?
HARKINS: Computer, disengage primary coolant system.
TORRES: Are you crazy? That'll cause a warp core breach.
HARKINS: Exactly.

[Holodeck - Voyager Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Barclay, I want an explanation for what's going on aboard my ship.
BARCLAY: I'm looking after Voyager's best interests, Captain. You're just going to have to trust me on that.
JANEWAY: You've never given me any reason to doubt you before.
BARCLAY: Computer, redirect the wormhole's trajectory to Delta Quadrant, grid ten, sector 3658, and retransmit the message.
COMPUTER: Trajectory established. Transmitting.
KIM: Who are you trying to contact, Reg?
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in forty five seconds.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. Report.
HARKINS: Shut down the program, Reg.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Security. Intruders on the bridge.
BARCLAY: Computer, establish a forcefield around the science station.
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core breach in thirty seconds.
JANEWAY: Harry, get down to Engineering. Seal that breach.
HARKINS: Forcefields aren't going to help you, Reg. It's over.
BARCLAY: But this is my last chance.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in twenty seconds.
JANEWAY: Captain to all hands. Abandon ship.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in ten seconds. Nine, eight
HARKINS: One way or another, this program's going to end.
COMPUTER: Seven, six, five.
BARCLAY: Good-bye, Captain.
COMPUTER: Four.
BARCLAY: Computer end program.
COMPUTER: Two.

[Astrometrics lab]
NEELIX: I'm ready for my lesson.
SEVEN: I've concluded that teaching you to sing is an inefficient use of my time.
NEELIX: But I, I've been, I've been practicing.
SEVEN: In your case, practice is irrelevant. Your vocal chords are incapable of producing basic diatonic tones, not to mention your rhythmic shortcomings.
NEELIX: I sound so good in the sonic shower.
SEVEN: Perhaps you should confine your efforts to that location. Astrometrics to the bridge.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Seven.
SEVEN (voiceover): I've detected what appears to be a micro-wormhole at coordinates one nine four point six by three five.
JANEWAY: A micro-wormhole.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I believe a message is being transmitted through it, on a Starfleet emergency channel.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Let's hear it, Harry.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Starfleet Command to USS Voyager. Come in, Voyager.
JANEWAY: Try applying a narrowband filter to the signal processor.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Do you hear me? This is Lieutenant Reginald Barclay.
KIM: That's it. Whoever this Barclay is, he stopped transmitting.
TUVOK: The micro-wormhole is collapsing at a rate of point two percent per second.
JANEWAY: That doesn't give us much time.
CHAKOTAY: To do what?
JANEWAY: To send a message back through and hope Mister Barclay is listening.

[Pathfinder lab]
BARCLAY: It should have worked. I don't understand why it didn't.
ADMIRAL PARIS: There you are. I've reviewed Mister Barclay's plan. I think it's worth an attempt.
HARKINS: He's already tried, sir, without your authorisation. It didn't work.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I'm sorry to hear that.
BARCLAY: So am I, sir. I appreciate your confidence in me, but I, I don't deserve it.
HARKINS: What would you like me to do with him, Admiral? He broke into the lab, accessed the MIDAS array and resisted arrest.
ADMIRAL PARIS: You've put me in a difficult position, son. I was hoping that we'd be able to
TECHNICIAN: We're receiving a transmission.
ADMIRAL PARIS: From where?
TECHNICIAN: Coordinates three four three point six by two seven.
BARCLAY: The wormhole.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Starfleet Command, come in.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Voyager.
HARKINS: Reg, give me a hand clearing up the signal.
BARCLAY: Lower the filter band by point three kilohertz.
JANEWAY (voiceover): This is Captain Kathryn Janeway. Do you read me?
HAWKINS: I think she's talking to you.
BARCLAY: Captain.

[Bridge]
BARCLAY (voiceover): This is Lieutenant Reginald Barclay at Starfleet Command.
JANEWAY: It's good to hear your voice, Lieutenant. We've been waiting a long time

[Pathfinder lab]
JANEWAY (voiceover): For this moment.
BARCLAY: The feeling is mutual. Unfortunately, the micro-wormhole is collapsing. We have only a few moments.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Understood. We are transmitting our ship's logs, crew reports and navigational records to you now.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Acknowledged. And we're sending you data on some new hyper-subspace technology.

[Pathfinder lab]
BARCLAY: We're hoping eventually to use it to keep in regular contact, and we're including some

[Bridge]
BARCLAY (voiceover): Recommended modifications for your comm. system.
JANEWAY: We'll implement them as soon as possible.

[Pathfinder lab]
BARCLAY: There's someone else here who would also like to say something.
ADMIRAL PARIS: This is Admiral Paris.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Hello, sir.
ADMIRAL PARIS (voiceover): How are your people holding up?
JANEWAY: Very well. They're an exemplary crew, your son included.

[Pathfinder lab]
PARIS: Tell him, tell him I miss him.

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): And I'm proud of him.
JANEWAY: He heard you, Admiral.

[Pathfinder lab]
BARCLAY: The wormhole is collapsing.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I want you all to know we're doing everything we can to bring you home.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We appreciate it, sir. Keep a docking bay open for us.

[Pathfinder lab]
JANEWAY (voiceover): We hope to see you
BARCLAY: That's it. They're gone.
HARKINS: You did it, Reg. I'm sorry I doubted you.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Why the long face, Mister Barclay?
BARCLAY: Because, because it's over, sir.
ADMIRAL PARIS: No, Lieutenant. I'd say that Project Voyager is just beginning, thanks to you.

[Mess hall]
TORRES: Anyone know this Barclay?
EMH: I took the liberty of reviewing his personnel file. He's had a rather colorful career, not to mention an unusual medical history. He's recovered from a variety of maladies, including transporter phobia and holo-addiction.
JANEWAY: Well, whatever his problems, he certainly came through for us.
CHAKOTAY: Starfleet should give him a promotion.
SEVEN: I finished analyzing the data Mister Barclay sent. The hyper-subspace technology is promising. I believe we can look forward to future communications with Earth.
NEELIX: Well, that calls for a toast.
JANEWAY: Care to do the honors, Tom?
PARIS: To my Dad. It's nice to know he's still there. And to the newest honorary member of the Voyager crew, Reginald Barclay. Whoever you are.
JANEWAY: Here, here. To Mister Barclay.

[Barclay's Apartment]
TROI: Congratulations.
BARCLAY: Well, I'm not not sure I deserve congratulations.
TROI: Why not? It's quite an accomplishment.
BARCLAY: I, I couldn't have done it without your help.
TROI: What did Commander Harkins have to say about it?
BARCLAY: Well, I think, I think he was pleased.
TROI: Why wouldn't he be? You're quite a catch.
BARCLAY: Well, not everyone would want a sister-in-law to date someone with my history.
TROI: It's a new era. So tell me all about the lucky lady. I want details.
BARCLAY: Well, her name is Hope.
TROI: You're kidding.
BARCLAY: No And, and, and she loves cats.

[Holodeck - Fair Haven Street]
GRACE: Good morning, Tom.
PARIS: Good morning, Grace.
SEAMUS: So, where you heading?
PARIS: Sullivan's. Care to join me?
SEAMUS: Ah, I wish I could, but there's a bit of a problem.
PARIS: Oh, really?
SEAMUS: Well, you see, Tommy-me-boy, the Good Lord blessed me with a fine wife. I'll never forget the day I met her. I was on me way to the Fair in Dooleen, or was it Kilkee? There's some fine trout fishing to be had in Kilkee this time of year.
PARIS: Who said anything about trout?
SEAMUS: Timothy Ryan, God rest his soul. He was one for the trout. The poor man's been dead a fortnight. Some say he had the croup, but don't you believe it. The widow Moore gave him the Evil Eye.
PARIS: And your point?
SEAMUS: Me wife and I, well, we've hit a bit of a rough patch. A better woman never walked the face of the earth.
PARIS: She threw you out again.
SEAMUS: With nothing but the clothes on me back.
PARIS: How much?
SEAMUS: A shilling or two should suffice.
PARIS: Keep the change.
SEAMUS: God bless you, Tommy-me-boy
PARIS: Harry, weren't you supposed to meet me at Sullivan's?
KIM: Sorry. I got distracted by the, er, scenery. This is Maggie.
PARIS: We've met. Could you excuse us?
MAGGIE: Charmed to have met you, Harry.
KIM: Charmed. What's the hurry?
PARIS: A word to the wise. Stay away from Maggie O'Halloran. She's promised to a pig farmer with a very large rake.
KIM: Does she have a sister?
PARIS: Wooden teeth.
KIM: Nothing an adjustment to the holomatrix wouldn't fix.
PARIS: No, no. I'm not changing a thing. Fair Haven is perfect just the way it is.
KIM: Tommy boy, you forgot the leprechauns.
PARIS: No. No leprechauns, no aliens, no starships. I want this to be a place where the crew can unwind.
EMH: Morning, lads.
PARIS: Ah. Heard any good confessions lately?
EMH: Doctor-patient confidentiality, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Harry hasn't seen Sullivan's yet. You care to join us?
EMH: Don't mind if I do. I'll need to leave no later than thirteen hundred hours.
PARIS: Medical emergency?
EMH: Not exactly. I'm working on my homily for Sunday's mass and I expect both you sinners to be in attendance.
PARIS: He's kidding, right?
KIM: You wanted authenticity.

[Holodeck - Sullivan's]
PARIS: Everybody, place your bets.
SEAMUS: Three bob on Liam.
PARIS: Three bob it is.
EMH: Five shillings on Liam.
PARIS: You're going to hurt Harry's feelings.
EMH: Very well. Two shillings on Mister Kim and I'll pray for a miracle.
SEAMUS: Excuse me, Father, but I'm needing a bit of counsel.
EMH: I'm off duty right now.
SEAMUS: But I've broken the fifth commandment again.
EMH: Say ten Our Fathers and call me in the morning.
EMH: Gentlemen.
EMH: Come on, come on Mister Kim, show him what for. You can do it!
MICHAEL: What'll it be?
JANEWAY: I'm looking for some friends of mine.
MICHAEL: We're all friends here.
JANEWAY: Well, then, have you seen Tom Paris?
MICHAEL: He's right over there, with young Harry. Poor sod. I'm afraid no one's whipped Liam in three years.
JANEWAY: There's a first time for everything.
MICHAEL: An optimist, are you?
JANEWAY: A realist.
EMH: Come on, Ensign, try. Try!
SEAMUS: Come on, me boy. Push! Push!
KIM: I'm trying!
EMH: Come on. Try harder.
SEAMUS: You got him. You got him.
EMH: You're losing.
SEAMUS: What in God's name? Come on, Liam. Push!
KIM: Yes! Yes!
EMH: I knew you could do it, Ensign.
JANEWAY: So this is the program I've been hearing so much about.
PARIS: Welcome, weary traveler.
JANEWAY: You have outdone yourself this time. Everything is authentic, except for one tiny detail.
PARIS: Oh?
JANEWAY: The harp on the sign. It's backwards.
PARIS: Oh, everybody's a critic.
EMH: As I recall, the Captain is quite an aficionado of Irish history.
JANEWAY: I hate to break up the party, but we have some business to attend to. There's a neutronic wavefront approaching. Class nine.
KIM: Class nine?
PARIS: Sorry, boys. Duty calls.
SEAMUS: Ah, wavefront? Now, what in the name of God is that?
PARIS: Er, a wee bit of bad weather.
SEAMUS: Oh.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Borg classification three four seven nine two. Particle density anomaly.
PARIS: Where'd it come from?
SEVEN: I believe it was formed by the collision of two neutron stars. The wavefront is traveling at a velocity of two hundred thousand kilometers per second, and it extends for three point six light years.
CHAKOTAY: How long before it hits?
SEVEN: Approximately fifteen hours.
TORRES: We're already feeling its effects. The neutron radiation is disrupting plasma flow. We can't jump to warp.
PARIS: Impulse power won't be enough to outrun that thing.
JANEWAY: Then we'll have to ride it out. We'll generate an inverse warp field and drop anchor. That should protect us from the turbulence.
CHAKOTAY: What about the radiation? It'll only get worse.
JANEWAY: Have the doctor prepare inoculations for the crew. Go to yellow alert. Tom, B'Elanna, get started on converting the warp core.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Let's batten down the hatches.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Captain.
JANEWAY: Just burning the midnight oil.
NEELIX: Midnight's come and gone.
JANEWAY: Then it's time for a break.
NEELIX: Do you mind?
JANEWAY: I could use the company. This approaching wavefront is bringing back some unpleasant memories.
NEELIX: How so?
JANEWAY: You know I grew up on a farm in Indiana. We used to have some terrible thunderstorms during the summer months. At the first bolt of lightning I'd bolt under the bed.
NEELIX: We had some pretty nasty weather on Talax, too. I always enjoyed a good ion storm.
JANEWAY: Give me clear skies any day.
NEELIX: Now that you bring it up, I am concerned with keeping up morale over the next few days. The crew is not used to sitting still.
JANEWAY: Suggestions?
NEELIX: Everyone seems to love Fair Haven. I was thinking we might initiate an open door protocol on the holodeck. Keep the program running twenty four hours a day. Let people come and go as they please.
JANEWAY: Permission granted. Fair Haven's just become our port in the storm.
NEELIX: I'm heading down there myself, if you'd like to join me. There's a charming little inn called the Ox and Lamb. The owner offered to share some of his recipes.
JANEWAY: No, thanks. I still have work to do.
NEELIX: Okay.

[Holodeck - Sullivan's]
MICHAEL: What'll it be?
JANEWAY: A cup of tea would be nice.
MICHAEL: I just made one. Cream?
JANEWAY: Please.
MICHAEL: So, what brings you to Fair Haven, Miss?
JANEWAY: Kathryn. I'm just passing through on my way home.
MICHAEL: How long have you been on the road?
JANEWAY: Five years, almost six.
MICHAEL: You must be homesick.
JANEWAY: No. Sometimes. Thank you.
MICHAEL: Cead mile failte.
JANEWAY: Translation?
MICHAEL: A hundred thousand welcomes. It's an old Irish saying. We're all friends here.
JANEWAY: I had an aunt who used to have a saying like that. A stranger is a friend you just haven't met yet.
MICHAEL: Definitely Irish.
JANEWAY: She had an Irish temper, too. She and my uncle had a place not far from here, in County Clare.
MICHAEL: Ah. Then you're closer to home than you think, Katie O'Clare.
JANEWAY: You know, it's later than I thought and I've kept you long enough.
MICHAEL: Oh no, stay awhile. Didn't your auntie teach you that it's impolite to leave without playing a game of rings?
JANEWAY: I really can't, but thanks for the tea.
MICHAEL: Afraid you'd lose?
JANEWAY: I rarely lose.
MICHAEL: Prove it.
JANEWAY: One game.
MICHAEL: I'll set them up.
MICHAEL: Another ringer.
JANEWAY: And I'm not surprised. You stepped over the beer stain.
MICHAEL: I did not.
JANEWAY: You did too, by half a boot, and then you moved back, hoping I wouldn't notice.
MICHAEL: These boots are half a size too large, so in reality my toes never crossed the line. Your turn.
JANEWAY: For luck.
MICHAEL: Getting sweet with the rings isn't going to help you.
JANEWAY: We'll see. Damn.
MICHAEL: Devil won't help you, either.
JANEWAY: Well, maybe rings aren't my forte after all. Would you care to arm wrestle?
MICHAEL: That's not a woman's game, Katie. You could get hurt.
JANEWAY: I'm stronger than I look.
MICHAEL: Ah! That's quite a grip you have.
JANEWAY: Not bad yourself.
MICHAEL: I couldn't help but notice that you have your leg braced against the bar.
JANEWAY: Well, how else do you expect me to win?
MICHAEL: Will we call it a draw?
JANEWAY: Sounds good to me.
MICHAEL: Shall we run a foot race down to the station and back? It's good to make a new friend. You have a nice way about you.
JANEWAY: Flattery's the food of fools.
MICHAEL: Another pearl of wisdom from your auntie?
JANEWAY: No, Jonathan Swift
MICHAEL: Swift? Never heard of him.
JANEWAY: He was an author.
MICHAEL: I was never one for reading.
JANEWAY: That's too bad. Some of the greatest writers in the world are Irish.
MICHAEL: Well, they say that Doctor Gilroy has a library of books and, well, next time I see him I'll ask him can I borrow one or two?
FRANNIE: Good morning.
MICHAEL: Good morning. Oh, my God, will you look at the time? Frannie, come here. There's someone I want you to meet. Katie O'Clare, this is my wife, Frances.
JANEWAY: Pleased to meet you.
FRANNIE: I hope Michael hasn't been bending your ear all night long.
JANEWAY: My ear, my elbow.
MICHAEL: We were arm wrestling.
FRANNIE: Such a gentleman.
JANEWAY: Thank you very much for your hospitality and now I really must be leaving.
MICHAEL: And, er, drop in again before you leave town.
JANEWAY: I will.

[Sickbay]
EMH: If you experience any dizziness report to Sickbay immediately.
CREWWOMAN: Thank you.
JANEWAY: Good morning, gentlemen.
EMH: I believe it's afternoon. Oversleep?
JANEWAY: Holodeck.
PARIS: Fair Haven?
JANEWAY: Welcome weary traveler.
EMH: Even I have to admit Mister Paris's latest effort is quite a tour de force.
JANEWAY: Ooh, high praise from a hologram.
PARIS: Oh, I was thinking, Captain now that we've got this open door policy, maybe I could expand Fair Haven into holodeck two. It would give me some room to create the seacoast.
JANEWAY: By all means.
EMH: Speaking of revisions, I was hoping I could give my character a more active role. In the period you've created, the village priest was the most prominent member of the community, held in the highest regard.
PARIS: That's a great idea, Doc. We could send Father Mulligan on a retreat to a nearby monastery, where he takes a vow of silence and never speaks again.
EMH: Try it, and you'll be saying Hail Marys till Saint Patrick's Day.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Time?
TUVOK: Thirty seconds
JANEWAY: Let's see it.
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Secure your stations and brace for impact.
TUVOK: We've cleared the leading edge. Turbulence is decreasing. Shields are holding.
JANEWAY: Damage?
KIM: We've got a ruptured plasma conduit, deck nine.
JANEWAY: Send a repair team. Maintain yellow alert. Let's hope that was the worst of it. Captain's personal log. It's been ten hours since the storm hit. We estimate another three days before we're clear of it. The crew's in good spirits, and many of them have taken the opportunity to visit Fair Haven. I met an interesting man there, and for a while I almost forgot he was a hologram. We weren't exactly compatible, but then again, Mister Paris didn't program him to my specifications.

[Holographic Research Lab]
JANEWAY: Computer, display Fair Haven character Michael Sullivan. Adjust his parameters to the following specifications. Give him the education of a nineteenth century third year student at Trinity College.
COMPUTER: Modification complete.
JANEWAY: Now, access the character's interactive subroutines. Make him more provocative.
COMPUTER: Specify.
JANEWAY: Give him a more complicated personality.
COMPUTER: Specify.
JANEWAY: More outspoken, more confident, not so reserved. And make him more curious about the world around him.
COMPUTER: Modification complete.
JANEWAY: Good. Now, increase the character's height by three centimeters. Remove the facial hair. No, no, I don't like that. Put some back. About two days' growth. Better. Oh, one more thing. Access his interpersonal subroutines. Familial characters. Delete the wife.
COMPUTER: Modification complete.
JANEWAY: Pleased to meet you, Mister Sullivan.

[Mess hall]
SEVEN: Are you ill, Commander?
TUVOK: I am experiencing a slight loss of equilibrium and some gastrointestinal distress.
SEVEN: Space sickness?
TUVOK: Unlikely. I am not prone to that condition.
SEVEN: Perhaps you should go to Sickbay.
TUVOK: I'll be fine.
KIM: I'm telling you, we should add more fog.
PARIS: Fog is depressing.
KIM: It's authentic.
PARIS: It's dangerous.
KIM: All right, we could add a lighthouse.
PARIS: It's Fair Haven, Harry. Sunshine?
KIM: Tuvok, what do you think? Irish sea coast, fog or no fog?
TUVOK: I have no opinion.
PARIS: He hasn't visited our little paradise yet.
TUVOK: Nor do I intend to.
KIM: I think you'd like it, Commander. It's a great place to meditate.
PARIS: Imagine yourself sitting high on a bluff overlooking the ocean. The salt air, The rhythm of the waves rising and crashing against the rocks. A tiny fishing boat bobbing on the water below. Up and down, up and down.
TUVOK: I get the idea, Ensign. Thank you.
NEELIX: Mutton, creamed cabbage or blood pudding?
SEVEN: Explain.
NEELIX: I'm preparing a traditional Irish meal at the Ox and Lamb this afternoon, and I can not decide on a main course.
PARIS: Blood pudding. You can't lose.
NEELIX: That was my first choice, too, but replicating the lamb's intestines, it, it could be tricky, And every time I try to heat the blood, it coagulates in the milk.
TUVOK: If you'll excuse me, I think I will consult the Doctor.

[Holodeck - Fair Haven Street]
JANEWAY: Excuse me, ma'am. Have you seen Michael Sullivan?
GRACE: Oh, you might try the pub.
JANEWAY: I just came from there.
GRACE: Oh, then he'll be at the train station.
GRACE: Yeah.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
GRACE: Sure.
JANEWAY: Excuse me, sir. Is the train to Galway running on time?
MICHAEL: Um, I'm afraid you've just missed it. Have a seat, wait for the next one. Do you know Jane Eldon?
JANEWAY: Eldon? No, I've never met her.
MICHAEL: I'd be terrified if you had. She's been dead seventy years. No, I was er, I was thinking about her poetry. It's too pastoral for my taste, don't you agree?
JANEWAY: I'm not familiar with her work.
MICHAEL: Really? Well, what about Sean Gogarty? They have similar rhyming schemes.
MICHAEL: You've some catching up to do. Well, I'm here every afternoon. You should join me sometime. I tried talking poetry with Seamus, but all he can do is recite limericks.
JANEWAY: I'd love to. Strange place to read, though.
MICHAEL: Not at all. I love the sound of the trains coming and going. It gets me thinking about places I'd like to visit. Have you traveled much yourself?
JANEWAY: As a matter of fact. But there's one place I haven't been yet. Castle O'Dell.
MICHAEL: It's a steep climb but from the top of the battlement you can see all the way to Dublin. We'd better be moving.
MICHAEL: They say when the sun goes down the King of the Faeries reclaims the castle.
JANEWAY: Maybe he'll invite us to supper.
MICHAEL: Eh, you'll be dining alone without me. One taste of the Faeries' banquet and you'll never return to this world.
JANEWAY: Oh, don't tell me you believe those stories.
MICHAEL: Believe? No. But I do respect them. Can I ask you something, Katie?
JANEWAY: Please.
MICHAEL: Have you a man waiting for you at home?
JANEWAY: No.
MICHAEL: Are you looking for one?
JANEWAY: Why? Do you have somebody?
MICHAEL: In Fair Haven? Not unless you fancy a pig farmer.
JANEWAY: Oh, not my type.
MICHAEL: What about a barkeeper who reads poetry in strange places?
CHAKOTAY: Captain? I thought that was you.
JANEWAY: Just getting in the spirit.
CHAKOTAY: I can see that. I don't believe we've met.
MICHAEL: Sullivan. Michael Sullivan.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay.
MICHAEL: That's a fine tattoo. Are you off a ship?
CHAKOTAY: You could say that.
MICHAEL: We're on the way up to the old castle. You're welcome to come with us.
CHAKOTAY: Thanks, but, er, I'm meeting Neelix at the Ox and Lamb. You two have fun.
MICHAEL: Is it my imagination, or did he call you captain?
JANEWAY: Did he?

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Looks like the worst is yet to come.
JANEWAY: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: I just came from Astrometrics. Seven's found an increase in the neutronic gradient at the trailing edge of the wavefront. It's going to be a rough ride when it hits.
JANEWAY: We've still got two days. Start working on a new shield modulation.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
TUVOK: That could explain my recent space sickness. Vulcan physiology is highly sensitive to neutronic gradients.
PARIS: You'd make a good barometer, Tuvok. Every time you get queasy, we go to red alert.
JANEWAY: Thanks for your report, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Don't mention it. Hills most green, hearts unseen.
JANEWAY: Yes. Jane Eldon. Catching up on a little reading.
CHAKOTAY: Those hills and hearts wouldn't happen to be in Ireland?
JANEWAY: You can wipe that smirk off your face. It's not what you think.
CHAKOTAY: I wasn't thinking anything, but now that you mentioned it
JANEWAY: I have an interest in Irish culture.
CHAKOTAY: It's understandable. They've produced great writers for hundreds of years. Not to mention great bartenders.
JANEWAY: He's a hologram.
CHAKOTAY: I couldn't help but notice he seemed a little taller than the last time I saw him.
JANEWAY: Yes, I made a few modifications.
CHAKOTAY: In the interest of Irish culture.
JANEWAY: Exactly.
CHAKOTAY: You seemed embarrassed when I ran into you. There was no reason to be. It was nice to see you having a little fun.
JANEWAY: He is rather charming, isn't he? Too bad he's made of photons and forcefields.
CHAKOTAY: I never let that stand in my way.

[Holodeck - Sullivan's]
MICHAEL: The boys are getting tired.
JANEWAY: Them, or you?
MICHAEL: Faster, boys.
JANEWAY: Computer, remove all characters except for Michael Sullivan.
MICHAEL: Can I ask you something, Katie?
JANEWAY: Please.
MICHAEL: Would you mind if I kissed you?
JANEWAY: I might even kiss you back.
MICHAEL: There's no point in waiting any longer, is there?
JANEWAY: Oh, I think I've waited long enough.
MICHAEL: Is there something wrong?
JANEWAY: No.

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Computer, recycle.
JANEWAY: Come in.
NEELIX: I thought you'd like to know we've organized a rings tournament tonight at Sullivan's.
JANEWAY: Thanks, Neelix, but I have work to do.
NEELIX: The Doctor's going to sing something called Danny Boy, and Mossie Donegan's promised to bring his talking pig.
JANEWAY: Well, let's just say I'd rather stick to reality right now.
NEELIX: Nineteen hundred hours, if you change your mind.
JANEWAY: Thank you.

[Holodeck - Sullivan's]
SEAMUS: Saints preserve us.
SEVEN: I possess superior hand-eye coordination.
SEAMUS: That's not all that's superior. The lily and the rose are staging a competition in your face.
SEVEN: Clarify.
SEAMUS: The fullness of your lips and the paleness of your cheeks, it's enough to make a man faint.
SEVEN: Then in that case, perhaps we should sit down.
KIM: I don't believe it.
PARIS: It's called old-world charm, Harry.
NEELIX: What'll it be, gentlemen?
EMH: Nothing for me. Temperance is a virtue.
PARIS: Where's Michael?
NEELIX: Over there.
PARIS: That's strange. I programmed him not to drink.
NEELIX: Must be a glitch in his subroutine.
EMH: Are these seats taken?
MICHAEL: Sit anywhere you like.
MICHAEL: Vile. It's been fifteen years since I touched the stuff.
PARIS: You making up for lost time?
MICHAEL: I was hoping it might ease the pain.
EMH: Are you in discomfort?
MICHAEL: Agony's more like it. How could you do this to me, Lord? Why don't you ask him? You've got his ear, don't you?
EMH: Well
MICHAEL: Three days. The happiest three days of my life. I was a fool to think she felt the same. I was such a fool!
SEAMUS: Aw, sit down, Sullivan.
MICHAEL: Shut your mouth, man, or I'll shut it for you.
SEAMUS: Oh, you will, will you?
PARIS: Hey, hey. Take it easy. Why don't you tell us what happened?
MICHAEL: We, we spent a perfect day together by the lake. I drifted off to sleep and when I woke up, she was gone. Where is she, Tom?
PARIS: Who?
MICHAEL: Katie O'Clare, who else?
PARIS: Katie O'Clare?
MICHAEL: Your friend.
PARIS: Are you sure you didn't misinterpret her interests? I mean, we're all friends here. Maybe she was just being friendly.
MICHAEL: Are you calling me a liar?
PARIS: No, no, not at all.
MICHAEL: I thought Katie and me were in love.
PARIS: I may have to do some reprogramming.
MICHAEL: What's the matter? You don't think I'm good enough for her?
PARIS: No, I, I didn't say that.
MICHAEL: Well, tell me where she's gone.
PARIS: I don't know.
MICHAEL: Well, I think you do.
EMH: Gentlemen, please! Love thy neighbor.

[Sickbay]
KIM: Let's see, I remember trying to reach the holodeck controls, Then, er, somebody grabbed my leg.
PARIS: Maybe it was the talking pig.
KIM: If it was, he had one hell of a left hook.
JANEWAY: What's all this?
EMH: I'm afraid there's been some trouble in paradise. An altercation in the pub this afternoon. Several crewmen were injured. Nothing serious.
JANEWAY: Arm wrestling get out of hand, boys?
NEELIX: Not exactly.
KIM: It was Michael Sullivan, Captain. He was looking for someone.
EMH: Why don't we take a little walk?

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Let me guess. that someone is me.
EMH: I don't mean to pry, Captain, but we've got a broken-hearted hologram who believed that the two of you were in love.
JANEWAY: Oh, I was sure he'd be on to the next lass by now. I hope he's all right.
EMH: Far from it. The fight spilled out onto the street. Before long, he'd climbed up a tree and began shouting your name. Mister Neelix managed to talk him down.
JANEWAY: It could be a malfunction in his behavioral subroutines.
EMH: I've already checked that. His subroutines are fine, but I did notice you'd made quite a number of alterations to his program.
JANEWAY: Minor improvements.
EMH: To make him more appealing?
JANEWAY: You're starting to pry, Doctor.
EMH: I apologize for overstepping my bounds but I'm worried about you. Michael Sullivan is a hologram. His broken heart can be mended with the flick of a switch. Your feelings however, are a little more complicated.
JANEWAY: I'm not going to be climbing any trees, if that's what you're worried about.
EMH: If you decide you want to talk, I've been hearing a lot of confessions lately. Let me know.
JANEWAY: You want a confession, Doctor? All right. I've become romantically involved with a hologram. If that's possible.
EMH: Tell me what happened.
JANEWAY: Well, you know the story. Girl meets boy, girl modifies boy's subroutines
EMH: Did you have intimate relations?
JANEWAY: That's none of your business. Let's just say it was a memorable three days.
EMH: I don't see the problem.
JANEWAY: Don't you? Michael Sullivan is exactly my type. Attractive, intelligent. We share the same interests. And if there's something I don't like, I can simply change it.
EMH: I've noticed that humans usually try to change the people they fall in love with. What's the difference?
JANEWAY: In this case, it works. We had a picnic by the lake yesterday afternoon. Michael drifted off to sleep. His head was lying on my shoulder and I remember thinking, this is close to perfect. Then he began to snore. Did I nudge him with my elbow hoping he'd roll over and stop? Did I whisper in his ear to wake him? No. Why bother? When I could simply access the computer and alter his vocal algorithms? And that's exactly what I was about to do, when I realized that everything around me was an illusion, including him. So I left. I almost wrote him a note to say goodbye. Can you believe that, a Dear John letter to a hologram?
EMH: I understand your trepidation, but you're the captain. You can't have a relationship with a member of your crew. They're all your subordinates. So where does that leave you? The occasional dalliance with a passing alien? Voyager could be in the Delta Quadrant for a very long time. A hologram may be the only logical alternative.
JANEWAY: He's not real.
EMH: He's as real as I am. Photons and forcefields, flesh and blood. It's all the same as long as your feelings are real. He makes a joke, you laugh. Is that an illusion? He says something that makes you think. Does it matter how his molecules are aligned? Did it ever occur to you that it's not just a question of whether or not he's real?
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
EMH: I think you should stop trying to control every aspect of this relationship. Romance is born out of differences as well as similarities. Out of the unexpected, as well as the familiar.
JANEWAY: Maybe I just needed to be sure that he'd love me back.
EMH: But isn't that the risk you always take, hologram or not? All I know is, Michael Sullivan was up in that tree shouting your name.
JANEWAY: I've never been afraid of taking risks.
EMH: Then perhaps, next time, you should just let him snore.

[Bridge]
KIM: The neutronic gradient's rising. Thirty million terajoules. Forty million.
JANEWAY: Shields?
TUVOK: Holding.
KIM: Sixty million.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to bridge. The inverse warp field's destabilizing. We're losing our anchor.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. How long before we're clear?
PARIS: At least another five minutes.
KIM: That's about four minutes too long. The gradient's rising fast. Ninety million.
PARIS: Stabilizers are offline.
CHAKOTAY: Thrusters?
PARIS: No effect.
TUVOK: Shields are failing.
CHAKOTAY: How close are we to the perimeter?
PARIS: A thousand kilometers, but we're being pulled along with the storm.
JANEWAY: What have you got in mind?
CHAKOTAY: The deflector beam. We might be able to cut a path through the wavefront.
TUVOK: It's possible, but we'd have to route all available power to the emitters.
KIM: That won't be enough. Primary systems are down.
JANEWAY: Then transfer all secondary power sources. Transporters, replicators, holodecks.
KIM: Captain, there's not enough time to go through the hologrid shutdown sequence. We'd lose most of Fair Haven.
JANEWAY: Do it.
CHAKOTAY: Hull fractures, deck six and seven.
KIM: You've got all the secondary power, Tuvok. Is it enough?
TUVOK: Negative.
CHAKOTAY: Siphon energy from the plasma network. Every last deciwatt.
TUVOK: Deflector beam active.
PARIS: We're approaching the perimeter. Five hundred kilometers. Four hundred.
TUVOK: Deflector output is dropping.
JANEWAY: Give him everything we've got. Life support, environmental controls. Scrape the residual ions off the sonic showers if you have to.

[Holodeck - Fair Haven Street]
KIM: Doesn't look good, Tom. With this much photonic decay we'll be able to save five, maybe ten percent.
PARIS: So much for the luck of the Irish.
KIM: It might be easier to start from scratch.
PARIS: It wouldn't be the same. It's like trying to rewrite a novel after the only copy of the data file has been deleted. All the details, the nuances, they're all gone.
SEAMUS: Morning, lads.
KIM: Hey, Seamus.
SEAMUS: Looks like a storm brewing.
PARIS: A storm?
SEAMUS: Heading in from the west. Could be a big one.
PARIS: Oh. Right.
SEAMUS: I don't suppose you could spare a shilling or two? Me wife and I made up last night and I wanted to buy her a new parasol.
PARIS: The grid's destabilizing. We'd better get started on those repairs.
KIM: So, what do we try and save? The Ox and Lamb? The church? Maggie O'Halloran?
PARIS: There's someone I should talk to before we decide.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
PARIS: Fair Haven didn't fare too well.
JANEWAY: I'll break the news to the crew.
PARIS: With your permission, I'd like to try to reconstruct the program.
JANEWAY: How long will it take?
PARIS: Six or seven weeks. Harry tells me that we should be able to save about ten percent of the existing elements. I thought you might have a suggestion or two.

[Holodeck Research Lab]
JANEWAY: Computer, is Fair Haven character Michael Sullivan still intact?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: Activate him. Hello.
MICHAEL: You disappeared on me, Katie. I woke up and you'd gone.
JANEWAY: I had some thinking to do.
MICHAEL: Are you done?
JANEWAY: Yes. I'm leaving Fair Haven.
MICHAEL: Why?
JANEWAY: Because.
MICHAEL: That's not a very good reason.
JANEWAY: The situation is complicated.
MICHAEL: Another man?
JANEWAY: No.
MICHAEL: Your friends, they don't approve of me?
JANEWAY: They think you're charming.
MICHAEL: Are you not ready to settle down yet?
JANEWAY: I'm as ready as I'll ever be.
MICHAEL: You're not making any sense.
JANEWAY: No, I guess I'm not.
MICHAEL: I have a feeling that you won't be forgetting us that easily, Fair Haven has that effect on people. But there's one thing I want you to know. I love you, Katie.
JANEWAY: I might actually be passing this way in six or seven weeks. Maybe I'll stop by the pub.
MICHAEL: See that you do.
JANEWAY: Oh computer, end program. Wait. I want to make one more modification to the character.
COMPUTER: Specify.
JANEWAY: Deny Kathryn Janeway any future access to his behavioral subroutines.
COMPUTER: Modification complete.
JANEWAY: Save program.

[Bridge]
PARIS: That's one planet that never showed up on the multiple choice exam.
TUVOK: Its gravimetric readings are similar to that of a collapsed dwarf star. It also resembles a quasar, in that it has a high rate of rotation, approximately fifty eight revolutions per minute.
JANEWAY: Shall we take a closer look?
CHAKOTAY: That's what we're here for.
JANEWAY: Tom, put us in a high orbit.
PARIS: Aye.
TUVOK: Our warp drive is offline.
CHAKOTAY: Why?
TUVOK: Unknown.
JANEWAY: Back us off.
PARIS: Our impulse engines aren't responding.
JANEWAY: The use the auxiliary thrusters.
KIM: We're in some kind of gravimetric gradient. It's pulling us toward the planet.

[Planet surface - early culture]
SHAMAN: The new one is brighter than Tahal, or any of his brothers in the sky.
NATIVE: What does he want from us?
SHAMAN: To answer that, we must learn the nature of this god. We must understand the reason for his arrival. You were making an offering to Tahal.
NATIVE: I placed the fire-fruit on his altar. Then the ground shook. I looked up and the new one was there.
SHAMAN: The fire-fruit. Where is it?
SHAMAN: The new one doesn't want Tahal to have the fire-fruit. Make an altar for him, as big as Tahal's. The fire-fruit is only for the New One. No more for the people. It is His alone. Ground Shaker, Light Bringer, take this today, and every day. Accept our offering. Do not harm us.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
TUVOK: We're in synchronous orbit, fifty seven thousand kilometers above the planet's equator.
CHAKOTAY: Good work, Tom. Now, let's see
PARIS: You're patting the wrong guy on the back.
JANEWAY: Explain.
PARIS: Our thrusters went offline halfway through our descent and then we just stopped, like we were caught in something.
TUVOK: I'm picking up a strong tachyon field along the hull. It could be what's holding us.
SEVEN (voiceover): Seven of Nine to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Seven.
SEVEN (voiceover): Please report to Astrometrics. There's something you must see.
JANEWAY: On my way. Chakotay.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: The planet has a tachyon core. It's produced a subspace particle field which runs between the poles. Voyager's arrival disrupted that field.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like the ship's been caught in an eddy of some kind.
JANEWAY: It's worse than that. Voyager seems to have become the planet's third pole.
SEVEN: The imbalance is affecting the outer crust. I've picked up indications of high-frequency seismic activity.
CHAKOTAY: Caused by our presence?
SEVEN: Possibly.
JANEWAY: Does anybody live down there?
SEVEN: The atmosphere is having a scattering effect on our sensors.
CHAKOTAY: Is that vegetation?
SEVEN: According to sensors, yes.
JANEWAY: The tachyon core has created a space-time differential between the planet and the surrounding space. We're watching the seasons change in a matter of seconds.
SEVEN: For each second that passes on Voyager, nearly a day goes by on the planet.
JANEWAY: Scan for inhabitants.
SEVEN: I can't isolate individual lifeforms. It'll take time to correct for the space-time differential
CHAKOTAY: A couple of hundred years, maybe? If our orbit starts to decay, Voyager will begin to feel the effects of the differential and we'll begin aging hundreds of times faster than we would in normal space.
JANEWAY: Unless we want to live our lives in the blink of an eye, I suggest we find a way out of here.

[Engineering]
CHAKOTAY: How's our warp core?
TORRES: The matter-antimatter reaction is still active, but this field we're stuck in is raising hell with the nacelles. Until we break orbit, warp drive is offline.
CHAKOTAY: Without warp drive, we'll never leave orbit.
TORRES: It does pose a bit of a problem, doesn't it?
CHAKOTAY: Maybe the key is to learn more about this planet, in case we're missing something.
TORRES: Sensors aren't having an easy time of it either.
CHAKOTAY: Then let's modify a class-five probe for low orbit, see what we can pick up. Configure the program to scan along all subspace bands, and set it for visual images every ten milliseconds.
TORRES: Snapshots. Why do I get the feeling you're not just interested in tachyon fields?
CHAKOTAY: This could be the greatest anthropological find of my career. If there's an intelligent species down there, we'll be able to track their development, not just for days or weeks, but for centuries.
TORRES: Watch them discover new and better ways of beating each other over the head.
CHAKOTAY: They won't necessarily follow the Klingon model.
TORRES: As opposed to the Human model? It'll take a few hours to make the adjustments.
CHAKOTAY: A few hours. We might miss the rise and fall of a civilization.
TORRES: So we'll watch the next one.

[Planet surface - Renaissance]
CLERIC: Oh. Oh, Protector.
KELEMENE: You're late.
CLERIC: Well, the hill is steep, and I, I'm not as young as I used to be.
KELEMENE: More heat.
KELEMENE: There are grave matters of state here that cannot be delayed.
CLERIC: Protector, what exactly are you doing?
KELEMENE: I'm sending him a letter.
CLERIC: Him? Sending who a letter?
KELEMENE: The Ground Shaker. The Light Bringer.
CLERIC: Had you been more attentive to my lessons when you were a boy, you would not be so gullible as a man.
KELEMENE: On the contrary, you taught me well. Our ignorant ancestors believed every star was a deity. You taught me how foolish that was. Superstition, you called it.
CLERIC: And that's exactly what it is.
KELEMENE: Hungry?
CLERIC: It's bad fortune to eat the fire-fruit.
KELEMENE: According to whom? Our ancestors? Don't tell me you believe that old superstition? Perhaps we shouldn't completely ignore the old beliefs, no matter how strange they may seem today. Ground Shaker. Ground shaker. Isn't it possible the name was not given arbitrarily? That this star is indeed responsible for knocking down our walls and making us stumble as we walk?
CLERIC: Oh yes, I heard about that. My condolences.
KELEMENE: You heard what?
CLERIC: Well, that you stumbled in front of several important people during the last ground shake. Uh, very embarrassing, I'm sure.
KELEMENE: I did nothing of the sort.
CLERIC: Well, my hearing is not as good as it used to be, nor my memory either. Now, what were we talking about?
KELEMENE: We were talking about ancient superstitions. Now, I don't believe for a moment that the stars are gods, but then, what are they?
CLERIC: A great mystery to which there is no answer.
KELEMENE: I believe the sky is full of people just like ourselves.
CLERIC: What? Oh, nonsense.
KELEMENE: Prove me wrong. I say each star encompasses a city and the Ground Shaker rules one of these cities. A fellow Protector. If I'm correct, then he'll listen to me, one Protector to another. Your pen.
KELEMENE: I, Kelemane.
CLERIC: Kelemane.
KELEMENE: Son of Kelemane, ruler of the good people of the land below you, demand that you stop what you're
CLERIC: Demand?
KELEMENE: Would hope?
CLERIC: Ah, better. Much better.
KELEMENE: Would hope that you might consider putting an end to whatever it is you're doing that shakes our ground. If this causes you inconvenience I'm willing to offer a recompense.
CLERIC: A recompense.
KELEMENE: I await your reply.

[Engineering]
TORRES: The next series of scans is coming through. I'm downloading them into the display buffer.
CHAKOTAY: No doubt about it. There's a city down there.
TORRES: Elevated levels of carbon monoxide, ammonium. That's progress, all right.
CHAKOTAY: They've developed internal combustion technology since the last few scans. Look at those radial lines. It looks like a system of roads.
TORRES: Well, one thing hasn't changed. The geological disturbances that Voyager seems to be causing. The probe recorded half a dozen each month. Still no way to tell how severe they are.
CHAKOTAY: Look at the amount of iron being used in that city. That's ten times what you'd expect to see in a culture at this stage of development.
TORRES: Do you think they're using it to support their buildings?
CHAKOTAY: If you lived on a planet that wouldn't stop shaking, you might be doing the same thing. If they've reached this stage of industrial development, they must be observing us.
TORRES: The probe's impulse thrusters are starting to fail. At its present altitude, it's been operating for over two hundred years. Its orbit is becoming decayed.
CHAKOTAY: Initiate self-destruct.
TORRES: It disintegrated in the upper thermosphere. If they saw anything, it just looked like a shooting star.

[Planet surface - observatory]
ASTRONOMER: Any response to our transmission?
TECHNICIAN: Nothing.
ASTRONOMER: No visual change either.
TECHNICIAN: Surprised?
ASTRONOMER: Send it again.
TECHNICIAN: The entire sequence? How about just the prime numbers?
ASTRONOMER: You're tired.
TECHNICIAN: So are you.
ASTRONOMER: The prime numbers and the elemental constants, then we'll stop.
TECHNICIAN: An acceptable compromise. It's not as if they're going anywhere, if they even exist in the first place.
ASTRONOMER: Do you doubt that?
TECHNICIAN: I doubt everything.
ASTRONOMER: So you weren't one of those children that had the entire series of Sky Ship Friends?
TECHNICIAN: Actually, I had them all, even the duplicates. You couldn't walk into my home without tripping over a Friend or two.
ASTRONOMER: Not in our home. My grandfather wouldn't allow it. He told us that the Sky Ship was a palace where an Evil Protector lived. He said that bad children were sent there to be punished. At this point, I'd be happy to see anything, evil or not. Can you boost the signal?
TECHNICIAN: We're already at maximum. Maybe if we switched to a different carrier wave to
TECHNICIAN: If there is somebody up there, they don't like us very much.
ASTRONOMER: Any beings capable of building that Sky Ship could have destroyed our world long ago. They're not causing the tremors on purpose.
TECHNICIAN: What if they're all dead?
ASTRONOMER: If you truly believe that, why did you join this project?
TECHNICIAN: I doubt everything, remember? Even my own doubts. I hope someone is up there.
ASTRONOMER: So do I.
TECHNICIAN: If they won't respond to mathematics, perhaps we should try a more personal approach. Here, say hello.
ASTRONOMER: How could they possibly speak our language?
TECHNICIAN: There's only one way to find out.
ASTRONOMER: What, what should I say?
TECHNICIAN: Oh, glad to meet you. Where are you from? Please stop shaking our planet.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: An ultra high frequency signal is being transmitted from the surface. The modulation is unfamiliar. Its Doppler component is
CHAKOTAY: Any signal from the surface will be accelerated. When it reached our time frame, the frequency would be thousands of times higher than normal.
SEVEN: I will attempt to slow it down.
CHAKOTAY: Again. Amplitude modulation. It's a radio transmission.
SEVEN: It's a numerical sequence.
CHAKOTAY: Prime numbers. They're sending a list of prime numbers.
SEVEN: Followed by a sequence of mathematical constants, and what appears to be a vocal modulation.
CHAKOTAY: Slow it down again. A little more.
ASTRONOMER (voiceover): Good friends in the Sky Ship. I call you that, hoping, at least, you're not enemies.

[Briefing room]
ASTRONOMER (voiceover): There's nothing on our world that resembles your technology, so we assume you came here from a nearby planet or a distant star. Our ancient mythology describes your arrival centuries ago, coinciding with the tremors that continually shake our planet and destroy so many of our accomplishments. I hope that was never your intention, but the result is the same. Respond if you can. Or if you wish, come down from your Sky Ship and visit us.
PARIS: Well, we've got to let them know we're not doing it on purpose.
TUVOK: Inadvisable. The Prime Directive still applies. This transmission was made with primitive radio technology. They are not a warp capable civilization.
PARIS: To hell with the Prime Directive. That man deserves an answer.
TORRES: Don't forget the temporal differential. That man has been dead for a long time.
EMH: Nearly a century by now.
PARIS: Okay, so we send a message to his great grandchildren. I'll gladly do the honors.
CHAKOTAY: Ancient mythology. That means we've already insinuated ourselves into their culture. Why not take the next step?
JANEWAY: First contact with a pre-warp society.
PARIS: We've already made first contact. They know we're up here.
JANEWAY: They've known for hundreds of years, which means our presence has been tempered by time. We've gradually become part of their mythos. Meeting us could throw that belief system into chaos.
PARIS: But we're destroying their planet. You heard him.
CHAKOTAY: A first contact, face to face, might give us information we could use to leave orbit. That would stop the damage. It's worth the risk.
JANEWAY: We don't even know if an away team could survive the transition to their time frame. Doctor, correct me if I'm wrong, but the physiological stress could be fatal.
EMH: For one of you, perhaps, but not for me. My holomatrix would be unaffected.
JANEWAY: You'd be going only as an observer. You're not to make contact.

[Bridge]
KIM: I localized the source of the transmission to a subcontinent in the southern hemisphere.
CHAKOTAY: The Central Protectorate?
KIM: How do you know that?
CHAKOTAY: I've been looking at the data from Astrometrics. Seven's picked up a few of their local transmissions. I can tell you the names of all twenty six states on the planet.
KIM: And all the best places to eat?
CHAKOTAY: Just about.
KIM: So is this Central Protectorate a good place to send the Doctor?
CHAKOTAY: Probably. Judging from the transmissions, they seem to have a tolerant society.
KIM: Hmm. Well, just to be on the safe side, I'll find him an isolated spot.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: I'm giving you access to your facial and epidermal parameters. You should be able to mimic the appearance of whoever is down there in a matter of seconds.
EMH: What if they're big, purple blobs of protoplasm?
JANEWAY: Then you'll be the best looking blob on the planet. I'm keeping you down there for three seconds, Doctor. That will be almost two days in their time frame. Gather whatever data you can. Seismic charts, meteorological records, anything that might give us a clue about how to break orbit.
EMH: Understood.
TORRES: This will speed up the scanning rate of your program, allow you to make the transition.
EMH: See you soon.
JANEWAY: Energizing.
TORRES: One, two, three.
JANEWAY: The confinement beam is destabilizing.
TORRES: It's the temporal field. We'll have to recalibrate.
JANEWAY: Every second he's down there he's in danger of being discovered.
TORRES: Locking on again.
JANEWAY: We've lost him.

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm scanning within a one hundred kilometer radius of where we sent him. Nothing.
CHAKOTAY: He could've moved across the continent by now, or to the other side of the planet.
KIM: Increasing radius to one thousand kilometers.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN (voiceover): Go ahead, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Have you picked up any information regarding opera houses or concert halls?
SEVEN (voiceover): The cultural center of the state runs along the shore of the eastern lake.
KIM: Got him. B'Elanna, stand by for the coordinates.
TORRES (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: I've reinitialized the confinement beam. It's holding.
JANEWAY: Locking on.
EMH: Captain! Lieutenant! I thought I'd never see you again.
JANEWAY: Are you all right?
EMH: Oh, I've had a few close calls over the years, but all in all
TORRES: Years?
EMH: It's been over three, but at least I knew you hadn't left me behind. All I had to do was look up and there you were, the brightest star in the sky.
JANEWAY: Well, what do they know about us?
EMH: Only that we arrived here centuries ago. They blame us for the seismic tremors but everything else is pure speculation. And let me tell you, they like nothing better than to speculate about Voyager. Doric would go on and on. Sky Ship this, Sky Ship that.
TORRES: Doric?
EMH: The owner of the building I lived in until the war started.
JANEWAY: There was a war?
EMH: Oh, the neighboring state decided to lob a few cannon shells at us. Our Tactical Air Command responded and a new treaty was signed in a matter of weeks, but not before my apartment was in ruins.
JANEWAY: Oh, so they have aviation technology?
EMH: They're hardly savages, Captain. In fact, they're making great strides technologically, thanks in part to Voyager.
TORRES: What do you mean?
EMH: From the moment our ship arrived in the sky, they've been trying to make contact. Our presence has encouraged invention, religion, science, art even children's toys. They're all variations on a single theme, Voyager. Mareeza even composed an aria based on the Sky Ship. I sang the lyric.
JANEWAY: Mareeza?
EMH: She was my roommate. Three years is a long time, Captain. One needs companionship.
JANEWAY: You'll get no argument from me. But did you learn anything that might help us break orbit?
EMH: It's all in here.

[Corridor]
EMH: Meteorological records for the last three hundred years. I've committed them all to memory. Some are inaccurate almanacs, but the more recent ones include detailed seismic analyzes.
JANEWAY: Get that information to Astrometrics. See if you can find any pattern to the quakes. Might help us figure a way out of here.
TORRES: See you in Sickbay. I'll download the data from your program and we'll do a little cosmetic surgery, too.
EMH: Lieutenant?
TORRES: Unless you prefer looking like that.
EMH: Of course, I completely forgot. If some of the people on the planet had their way, those weapons would be pointed at Voyager. Luckily the ship is still out of range, for now.
JANEWAY: I guess I can't blame them.
EMH: There's something of a space race going on between the various states. Who can get to the starship first with a rocket?
JANEWAY: Are we talking about a capsule with an astronaut or a missile with a warhead?
EMH: I can't answer that, but at their present rate of development, we won't have to wait very long to find out.

[Astrometrics lab]
NAOMI: How does this sound? The Weird Planet Where Time Moved Very Fast And So Did The People Who Lived There, by Naomi Wildman. That's what I'm calling my report for astronomy class. Neelix said I should choose a planet to write about, so I picked this one.
SEVEN: Your title is verbose. I suggest you try to condense it.
NAOMI: The Weird Planet.
SEVEN: Better, but it lacks precision. The Weird Planet Displaced in Time.
NAOMI: Perfect.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to the bridge. I'm transmitting my calculations directly to the helm.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Acknowledged.
NAOMI: What's happening?
SEVEN: The Doctor brought back data regarding the planet's graviton field. We're using it to realign our thrusters.
NAOMI: That'll be great for my report.
JANEWAY (voiceover): All hands, this is the Captain. Secure your stations and prepare to break orbit.
SEVEN: Brace yourself. Our altitude is increasing. Fifty meters. Sixty. Seven of Nine to the bridge. Our attempt to leave orbit is increasing the seismic activity. We must abort.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Agreed.
NAOMI: Is the planet okay?
SEVEN: Minimal damage along the equatorial coastline. Nothing serious.
NAOMI: Seven, do you think we'll ever be able to leave?
SEVEN: Eventually.
NAOMI: I hope so. I need a way to end my report.

[Space ship]
RETZ: Orbital One to launch control. We're ready to ignite second stage propellants.
LAUNCH CONTROL: Proceed.
RETZ: Second-stage propellants depleted.
TRINA: Final stage. Ready.
RETZ: Ready to ignite final stage propellants. Launch Control, we are awaiting your commands to proceed. What was that?
TRINA: There's nothing wrong with the transponder.
RETZ: Orbital One to launch control. We are not receiving your orders.
TRINA: Everything else is working perfectly. Ignite the final stage. We have to proceed with the mission.
RETZ: Final stage propellants depleted.
TRINA: Initiate deceleration thrusters.
RETZ: Thrusters active.
TRINA: Watch your pitch angle.
RETZ: Correcting.
TRINA: Distance check.
RETZ: We're in rendezvous range.
TRINA: Rendezvous sequence locked in.
RETZ: Moving into final position.
TRINA: Distance check.
RETZ: We're within scanning range.
TRINA: Let's take a look.
RETZ: The scanners won't penetrate their hull.
TRINA: I guess we'll have to go inside.
RETZ: We're not authorized to do that.
TRINA: Our orders were to learn as much as possible about the Sky Ship. That's my intention. I saw something that looks like a transfer port. It might be a place we can dock. Move in closer.

[Jefferies tube]
TRINA: Wait, wait.
RETZ: Are you all right?
TRINA: A little disoriented. Let's keep going.

[Engineering]
RETZ: I don't understand.
TRINA: Her skin feels warm.

[Corridor]
TRINA: It might be some sort of metabolic stasis. But then why does it look like they're just going about their business?
RETZ: This isn't right. We shouldn't be here. We were never meant to be here.
TRINA: Try and stay calm.
RETZ: We've seen enough. Please, we have to leave.
TRINA: You're the best pilot we have. That's why you're on this mission. This is no different than flying your favorite
RETZ: Oh, it's different.
TRINA: I can't argue with that. Another few minutes, then we'll go back. This looks like their command center.

[Bridge]
RETZ: This is not metabolic stasis.
TRINA: Could the laws of physics be different here?
RETZ: Maybe they're just a little slower.
RETZ: What's wrong?
TUVOK: Intruder Alert. Security team to deck one.
KIM: Captain, I'm picking up a ship at docking port one. It just appeared there.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay. Medical emergency.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: What can you tell me.
EMH: The transition to our time frame was a little rough for them. I'm afraid his colleague didn't make it.
JANEWAY: How is he?
EMH: Recovering. Lucky for him I'm as good as his family doctor. After three years of poring over their medical journals, I know as much about their physiology as I do yours. Easy.
RETZ: Where's Trina?
JANEWAY: She didn't survive the transition. I'm very sorry.
RETZ: Transition? To your time frame?
JANEWAY: You understand what's happened to you?
RETZ: I'm beginning to.
JANEWAY: Voyager exists in the same space-time as the rest of the galaxy. Your planet is different.
RETZ: So you really haven't been watching us for centuries.
JANEWAY: Actually, we just got here, And we're hoping you can help us find a way to leave.

[Ready room]
RETZ: So if what you're saying is true, everyone I know, everyone I knew, is gone.
JANEWAY: That's correct.
RETZ: Captain, I'm an accomplished pilot. That's why they chose me for this mission. I don't have the courage of the others. They made a mistake choosing me.
JANEWAY: I have to disagree. For someone whose life has just been turned upside down, I think you're doing fine.
RETZ: When I was a young child, the toys hanging above my crib depicted the Sky Ship. It's the first thing I ever remember seeing, even before my mother's face. And now I'm the only one that knows its name. Voyager. I suppose it'll be the last thing I see as well.
JANEWAY: that's up to you. I have no intention of keeping you here against your will. The Doctor spent some time on your planet collecting data that we hoped would help us find a way to leave orbit. We need you to assist us in interpreting that information. However, the longer you stay on board, the more difficult it will be for you to go home. Your culture is changing every second you're here. By the time you go back, you might find it more alien than ours.
RETZ: Star of the night, Star of the day, Come to take my tears away. Make my life always bright. It's a child's prayer.
JANEWAY: To Voyager?
RETZ: Yes.
JANEWAY: I hope you're not disappointed.
RETZ: How often does your very first dream come true? Of course I'll help you.

[Corridor]
EMH: The information I brought back is in Voyager's database. Seven of Nine has been trying to make sense of it. She'll welcome your assistance.
RETZ: Mountain or Lakeside?
EMH: Mountain, of course. Don't tell me you're a Lakeside supporter.
RETZ: You really were on the surface.
EMH: How are they doing this season?
RETZ: Not good. Five wins, twelve losses.
EMH: I don't believe it! Who's guarding for them?
RETZ: Torelius.
EMH: Any relation to the Torelius?
RETZ: His grandson.
EMH: I saw the original defend for Mountain in the playoffs against Red River.
RETZ: That was before I was born.
EMH: He would have gone into voluntary exile after a 5-12 season.

[Astrometrics lab]
RETZ: This information is out of date. We were far more advanced than this when I left. I can help you correct it.
SEVEN: Very well.
RETZ: Let's start with the geological data. The seismic detectors back then were off by a variance of three point eight.
SEVEN: A simple conversion will compensate for that.
RETZ: Does every planet look like ours?
SEVEN: None that I've seen. Your world appears to be unique.
RETZ: If we're so out of step with everything else, we'll never be able to explore space the way you have.
SEVEN: You're a highly adaptable species. Your scientists will find a way to compensate for the temporal differential.
RETZ: They'd better do it before you leave. Without the Sky Ship up above them, my people might lose interest in progress. There wouldn't be anything left to reach for.
SEVEN: Perhaps they'll miss Voyager so much, they'll do everything they can to follow us.
RETZ: Maybe so. What was that?
SEVEN: An antimatter implosion. Your world is experimenting with warp technology. The sensors detected an early test. Another test, six weeks later, and a third. More controlled each time. They're learning quickly. Too quickly.

[Bridge]
PARIS: What was that?
TUVOK: Unknown, but our shields are down to eighty two percent. Sixty four percent.
KIM: I don't know what's causing it. There's nothing on sensors.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN (voiceover): Go ahead, Captain.
JANEWAY: Are you picking up

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Anything in Astrometrics?
SEVEN: The inhabitants appear to have developed antimatter torpedo technology.

[Bridge]
SEVEN (voiceover): I believe we're under attack.
TUVOK: Another direct hit. Shields at forty nine percent.
RETZ: Captain, I apologize for this attack. They have no right.
JANEWAY: Unfortunately, they've got every right.
RETZ: Let me talk to them.
CHAKOTAY: We've already tried to hail them. It doesn't look like they're able to receive our transmissions.
RETZ: They still don't know about the time differential.
TUVOK: A logical assumption. Shields down to thirty four percent.
KIM: The torpedoes are being fired at three day intervals. They're making refinements each time, increasing the detonation yield.
PARIS: Captain, isn't it time we returned fire?
CHAKOTAY: We've done enough damage to these people over the last thousand years.
JANEWAY: You've got to go back. It's the only way. Make them understand who we are. You have the specifications of this ship. Your scientists might be able to use them to help free us. At the very least, get them to hold their fire.
KIM: Captain, the transporters are offline.
JANEWAY: Is his vessel still intact?
KIM: The docking port hasn't been hit yet.
JANEWAY: Good luck.

[Corridor]
EMH: This will accelerate your metabolic functions, help you make the transition.
RETZ: Thank you for everything, Doctor.
EMH: It was a pleasure to treat a fellow citizen. Would you do me a favor?
RETZ: Certainly.
EMH: Find out what happened to a boy named Jason Tabreez. He lived in the Central Protectorate.
RETZ: Jason? An unusual name.
EMH: Yes. He was my son.
RETZ: But you're a hologram.
EMH: It's a long story. He's dead by now, but perhaps you could discover what happened to him. Maybe he had children or grandchildren. You could tell them about me.
RETZ: I will.

[Space ship]
RETZ: Orbital One to Launch Control, please respond. Launch Control, please respond.
WEATHER COORDINATOR (voiceover): Who is this?
RETZ: Pilot First Rank, Gotana-Retz.
WEATHER COORDINATOR (voiceover): Clear the channel or I'm going to report you to the command center.
RETZ: Is this Launch Control?
WEATHER COORDINATOR (voiceover): I'm the weather coordinator for Station zero zero four. You're in violation of transmission regulations.
RETZ: Please, listen to me. I'm trying to reach Launch Control.
WEATHER COORDINATOR (voiceover): Let me guess. You finally decided to come home. You're Gotana-Retz?
RETZ: Gotana-Retz, yes. Now, please transfer me to Launch Control.
WEATHER COORDINATOR (voiceover): Launch Control became the Tactical Command Center fifty years ago. You're dead.
RETZ: I've been inside the Sky Ship.
WEATHER COORDINATOR (voiceover): Then it's a good thing you decided to leave. They're about to shoot it down.
RETZ: I've got to speak with them.
WEATHER COORDINATOR (voiceover): Tactical Command frequencies are classified. Now get off this channel.
RETZ: If you ever wanted to report more than the weather, now is your chance. Tell them to clear Central Lake of all traffic. Orbital One is coming in for a landing.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Shields at twenty three percent. Seventeen percent. Shields are down.
PARIS: What was that last one?
KIM: A tricobalt device.
PARIS: What will they think of next?
TUVOK: Damage reports coming in. Imminent hull breeches on decks eight, nine and ten. Life support is failing.
JANEWAY: Our astronaut should have made it by now.
KIM: Based on his descent velocity, he landed about ten minutes ago.
CHAKOTAY: That's a year and a half.
JANEWAY: Then he must have failed.
TUVOK: I'm picking up another launch. Two massive energy signatures.
CHAKOTAY: Tricobalt devices?
TUVOK: Unknown.
JANEWAY: Brace yourselves.
TUVOK: We're in some kind of tractor beam.
PARIS: Captain, if I alternate thrusters I might be able to break us free.
JANEWAY: No. Let's give our friends the benefit of the doubt.
KIM: They're pulling us away from the planet.
TUVOK: We've broken orbit.
JANEWAY: Try hailing them.
RETZ: It's good to see you all again.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like somebody down there listened to you.
RETZ: I'm sorry it took so long.
JANEWAY: Now we can make first contact the proper way.
RETZ: Unfortunately that won't be possible. A temporal compensator. It allows me to exist in your time frame without actually leaving my own, but only for a few minutes. I'm afraid it'll be a while before my people actually join the rest of the galaxy.
TUVOK: Captain, we'll be able to bring the warp drive back online in approximately two hours.
JANEWAY: Very good. Thank you.
RETZ: I feel like I'm saying goodbye to an old friend.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 53556.4. We've towed a damaged vessel aboard and are attempting to repair it while the Doctor treats the Qomarian crew, who have suffered minor injuries.

[Sickbay]
ABARCA: Stay away.
EMH: If you don't cooperate, I can't treat you.
ABARCA: When we agreed to be examined by this ship's medical officer, we didn't know that you were a primitive computer matrix.
EMH: I assure you there is nothing primitive about me. I am programmed to perform more than five million medical procedures.
ABARCA: Does that include bloodletting?
EMH: No, but I'll be happy to add it to my repertoire.
TINCOO: We are ready to return to our ship. Could you contact one of your superiors?
EMH: Doctor to the Captain. Please report to Sickbay.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Already on my way.
EMH: The Captain is coming here now. If you want to talk to her, you can have a seat.
TINCOO: It is a very irritating program.
ABARCA: Maybe we can disable its speech subroutines.
EMH: You're not authorized to do that!
JANEWAY: How are our guests?
EMH: Their injuries are minor. Unfortunately, I can't say the same for their lack of manners.
JANEWAY: Doctor.
ABARCA: What is the status of our ship?
JANEWAY: To be honest, we're having a little trouble understanding your technology.
ABARCA: The problem is your technology. Interference from your antiquated scanning devices shut down our propulsion system.
TINCOO: Forgive us, Captain. We live in a closed system. We are not accustomed to interacting with other species, especially inferior ones.
JANEWAY: Well then, I guess we'll leave the repairs in your superior hands.
ABARCA: Our injuries will have to be treated first. Is there someone other than this hologram who could help us?
JANEWAY: No one who's better qualified.
TINCOO: Very well.
JANEWAY: Try to bear with our deficiencies just a little longer.
EMH: This way, please. I've been working on the railroad, all the live long day. I've been working on the railroad, just to pass the time away.
ABARCA: What is that?
EMH: This? A hypospray.
ABARCA: No. What you were doing.
EMH: Preparing your medication.
TINCOO: No. With your voice.
EMH: You mean singing?
TINCOO: Singing.
ABARCA: Do it again.
TINCOO: Yes, do it again.
EMH: Someone's in the kitchen with Dinah, someone's in the kitchen I know. Someone's in the kitchen with Dinah, strummin' on the old banjo and singing Fee fi fiddly i o, Fee fi fiddly i o, Fee fi fiddly i o. Strummin' on the old banjo.
TINCOO: It is a unique mathematical variation.
ABARCA: Difficult to quantify.
TINCOO: How do you suppose the algorithms are generated?
ABARCA: Maybe it's a fractal.
TINCOO: Or waveform calculus?
EMH: Do you mean to say a culture as superior as yours has never heard music of any kind?
TINCOO: There are other kinds of music?
EMH: Of course. The little ditty I just sang is an early American folk song. But countless cultures have produced thousands of types of music. Instrumental, choral, orchestral.
ABARCA: What is the purpose of this music? Is it an encryption code of some kind?
EMH: There is a mathematical component to music, but primarily it's a form of artistic expression.
TINCOO: Artistic expression?
EMH: Using sounds and images to convey ideas and emotions.
ABARCA: Why would anyone do that?
EMH: Well, to communicate their feelings.
ABARCA: Can't they do that through speech?
EMH: Yes, but music is much more expressive and entertaining.
TINCOO: You mean to say that this music is recreational?
EMH: It does have other applications. As a matter of fact, I've recently been doing some research into its therapeutic properties. But, yes, primarily we use it for enjoyment.
ABARCA: We? You mean to say others aboard your ship are capable of producing this phenomenon?
EMH: Well, maybe not with my level of expertise, but there are quite a few members of this crew who possess musical skills.
TINCOO: Maybe we judged this culture too quickly.
EMH: Our database contains the works of thousands of musicians and composers. If you'd like, I could download some selections for you.
TINCOO: Could you sing them for us?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The Qomar have completed repairs to their ship and, surprisingly, have invited us to visit their system. Apparently, it's no longer closed to outsiders.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Harry, can you make sense of any of this?
KIM: We're picking up thousands of subspace transmissions, all encrypted differently.
PARIS: Between the satellites and the spacecraft, it's like navigating an obstacle course.
CHAKOTAY: With all this traffic, the Qomar might not even know we're here.
TUVOK: Apparently, they do. We are being hailed.
TINCOO (screen): Captain, you now have the privilege of meeting Prelate Koru.
KORU (screen): Welcome to the Qomar Planetary Alliance.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Prelate. We're looking forward to learning more about your culture.
KORU (screen): Our civilization is no doubt intimidating. We'll do what we can to avoid overwhelming you during your stay.
JANEWAY: I appreciate that. I understand we're not as advanced as you, but we're fast learners, and we'd like to
KORU (screen): We want to learn more about the algorithmic expressions you call music.
JANEWAY: We're prepared to give you complete access to our musical database, as well
KORU (screen): Your Emergency Medical Hologram. We'd consider an exchange of technology, if you give us complete access to this device.
JANEWAY: I believe he's made some recordings.
KORU (screen): No, not recordings.
JANEWAY: How about a recital?
KORU (screen): Recital?
JANEWAY: A live performance. We can put together a program of various styles of music.
KORU (screen): Will the Emergency Medical Hologram sing?
JANEWAY: He'll be the star attraction.

[Mess hall]
EMH: Dio, che nell'alma infondere amor volesti e speme, desio nel core accendere Tu dei di liberta.
EMH: Thank you. You're very kind. That was a selection from the opera Don Carlos, composed by Giuseppe Verdi a towering figure in Earth's musical history. Another human musical form is called jazz, which has flourished since the early twentieth century. Mathematically, you'll find the rhythmic structures quite interesting, particularly the use of syncopation, which is said to make the music swing. You may also notice some fascinating trigonometric functions in the counterpoint, but I suppose I'm going off on a tangent, aren't I?
EMH: So, without further ado, I give you Harry Kim and the Kimtones!
ABARCA: We wish to hear the Doctor.
TINCOO: Yes, the Doctor.
PARIS: Doc, they're dying up there. You've got to do something.
EMH: Pick up the tempo. That old black magic has me in its spell. That old black magic that you weave so well. Those icy fingers up and down my spine. The same old witchcraft when your eyes meet mine. The same old tingle that I feel inside. And then that elevator starts its ride, And down and down I go. Round and round I go, Like a leaf that's caught in the tide.
PARIS: Well, if you like jazz, you're going to love rock 'n' roll. It was one of the twentieth century's greatest inventions.
ABARCA: Does the Doctor sing rock 'n' roll?
CHAKOTAY: I wouldn't say it's his favorite genre.
PARIS: No, he's more of an opera man.
ABARCA: As am I.
VINKA: Aren't you one of the musicians?
KIM: Harry Kim.
VINKA: Vinka.
KIM: Welcome aboard Voyager. Er, if you'd like to see the rest of the ship, I'd be happy to give you a tour.
VINKA: Maybe later. I was wondering if you could introduce me to the Doctor.
JANEWAY: Congratulations, Doctor, you stole the show.
EMH: Thank you, Captain, but I can't take all the credit. There was something in the air. A certain magic. It was one of those rare moments when audience and performer become one.
KORU: Doctor.
EMH: Prelate. Tincoo.
KORU: I will introduce your singing to more of our people.
EMH: I'm flattered.
KORU: You will perform on our planet.
EMH: I'd consider it an honor, but you'll have to negotiate the terms with my representative.
KORU: I don't understand.
JANEWAY: I believe the Doctor is referring to me, Prelate. Another concert would mean extending our stay. When would you want to schedule the performance?
KORU: As soon as possible.
TINCOO: The Doctor could perform in one of the lecture halls at the university.
EMH: I'm not sure a lecture hall would meet the acoustic requirements.
TINCOO: I'll help you make whatever modifications you think are necessary.
JANEWAY: Sounds like you've got yourself a booking, Doctor.

[Engineering]
EMH: I'd like to reproduce a backdrop which was used in a production of Pagliacci at Teatro de la Scala, Earth's most famous opera house.
TINCOO: It's beautiful.
EMH: Your taste in design is as refined as your taste in music.
TINCOO: We'll replicate it for you.
EMH: Excellent, but we still have the problem with the sight lines.
TORRES: What's wrong with the sight lines?
EMH: If you consider the height of the average Qomar, it's obvious that anyone seated in the back five rows will have an obstructed view.
TORRES: You're right. They won't be able to see anything but the top of your head. The glare could blind them.
EMH: You'll have to excuse Lieutenant Torres. Her appreciation of music is limited to a smattering of Klingon drinking songs. We'll have to increase the rake of the floor by five degrees.
TORRES: You really think they're going to redesign an entire building just to appeal to your vanity?
EMH: Vanity has nothing to do with it, Lieutenant. I'm concerned about my audience.
TINCOO: We are prepared to make whatever changes the Doctor thinks are necessary.
EMH: Thank you, Tincoo. While we're at it, Lieutenant, I'll need some help with my wardrobe.
TORRES: I'm an Engineer, not a costume designer.
EMH: I'd like you to make an adjustment to my mobile emitter that will allow me to make quick changes between songs.
TINCOO: That sounds exciting.
EMH: Oh, it will be. I plan to segue from Don Juan to Rigoletto in the blink of an eye. It will be a triumph of
TORRES: Arrogance and self-absorption? Just trying to help.
TINCOO: Your crewmates don't seem to appreciate your abilities.
EMH: You've noticed that too?
TINCOO: That must be very frustrating for you.
EMH: You have no idea.

[Backstage]
TINCOO: We'll be starting in two minutes.
EMH: I'd better get into costume.
EMH: How do I look?
TINCOO: You look perfect.
EMH: I wish I had a subroutine to eliminate pre-show jitters.
TINCOO: I could help you add one to your program.
EMH: You're very sweet. I'm just a little nervous.
TINCOO: Why?
EMH: I'm about to expose your entire culture to music for the first time. The responsibility is enormous.
TINCOO: Your performance tonight will be transmitted to hundreds of millions of people.
EMH: Is that supposed to help me relax?
TINCOO: It's time.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: I didn't order Red alert, Captain.
JANEWAY: Well, someone did.
KIM: The command originated in Astrometrics.
SEVEN (voiceover): Seven of Nine to the Captain. I've found evidence that the Qomar are attempting to sabotage Voyager.
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: What have you got?
SEVEN: I believe the Qomar are attempting to disable our comm. system.
JANEWAY: How?
SEVEN: By overloading it with millions of teraquads of irrelevant data.
JANEWAY: What do you mean by irrelevant?
JANEWAY: They're transmissions, all addressed to the Doctor.
SEVEN: Precisely. I've only been able to decipher a small fraction of them so far, but they include invitations to social and scientific functions, requests for personal encounters, and cloying tributes to the Doctor's talents.
JANEWAY: Computer, stand down Red alert. This isn't sabotage, Seven. This is fan mail.
SEVEN: Fan mail?
JANEWAY: People who admire performers are called fans.
SEVEN: The word, I believe, derives from fanatic.
JANEWAY: Exactly.
SEVEN: Why would the Doctor inspire fanaticism among the Qomar?
JANEWAY: Music is new to them. Clearly, they're very excited about it.
SEVEN: This glorification of the individual is irrational. The Doctor is merely reproducing the work of others. Why do his fans fixate solely on him?
JANEWAY: I suppose he's the embodiment of what they admire. He can do something they can't. That makes him special.
SEVEN: Perhaps, but that doesn't explain their interest in the minutiae of the Doctor's life. What does he do in his spare time? To how many decimal places can he calculate pi? This one wants to know his favorite quadratic equation.
JANEWAY: People have always fantasized about knowing celebrities personally. I suppose it's a way of making themselves feel more important.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK (voiceover): We have a security problem on deck two.
JANEWAY: On my way. Just think, Seven. As personal friends of the Doctor, we're the envy of millions of Qomar.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: Our efforts to accommodate them have gotten out of hand.
JANEWAY: I guess their interest in the Doctor is greater than we expected.
TUVOK: Much greater. I recommend we refuse all further requests for transport from the surface.
JANEWAY: Agreed.
TUVOK: And we should evacuate these visitors immediately. They're interfering with normal ship's functions.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, when have functions aboard this ship ever been normal?

[Mess hall]
HOLO-EMH: Dio, che nell'alma infondere amor volesti e speme
HOLO-EMH: Desio nel core accendere tu dei di liberta.
EMH: Thank you for coming. Please accept this eight by ten by four singing replica of me.
NEELIX: One at a time, one at a time. Now, please, do not touch the Doctor's mobile emitter. Captain, isn't this exciting?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure that's the word I'd use for it. Excuse me. Sorry, excuse me.
EMH: I'm sorry, Captain, but you'll have to wait your turn like everybody else.
JANEWAY: I'm not here for an autograph. We need to talk.
JANEWAY: I'm glad you're enjoying yourself Doctor, but this is getting a little excessive.
EMH: I'm only doing what I can to ensure that first contact with the Qomar goes smoothly.
JANEWAY: Does that include using our replicator reserves to create miniaturized versions of yourself?
EMH: I would never do such a thing. As a matter of fact, the Qomar have devoted an entire holo-processing plant to manufacturing them for me.
JANEWAY: I see. Well in any case, you've been neglecting your Sickbay duties. I haven't received a report in three days.
EMH: Oh, come now, Kathryn. It's not as though there's been a flood of medical emergencies.
JANEWAY: I wasn't aware we were on a first name basis.
EMH: I, I meant Captain. I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: Oh, that's perfectly all right, Doctor, or do you prefer Maestro?
EMH: Oh, please. Either is acceptable.
JANEWAY: Well, then, let me make it clear to both of you. Maestro, you're finished for today. Doctor, report to Sickbay. Now.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: Well, well, well. If it isn't the wandering minstrel.
EMH: What's the nature of their medical emergencies?
PARIS: Apparently, these two young ladies became dizzy and disoriented while waiting in line to see you.
EMH: I'll take over from here.
PARIS: Be careful, Doc. You seem to be hazardous to the Qomars' health.
VINKA: I'm Vinka.
AZEN: I'm Azen.
EMH: Hmm. Neither of you appears to be ill.
VINKA: We wanted to meet you in a more intimate setting.
AZEN: So we told your security officer we were sick.
EMH: Sickbay is for medical treatment only. I'm afraid you'll have to leave.
VINKA: But there's so much about you we want to know.
AZEN: Yes, you're a very stimulating hologram.
EMH: If you're here for a replica, they're available in the mess hall.
AZEN: We don't want a replica.
VINKA: We want the full sized version.
EMH: I'm flattered, really, but if you don't leave now I'll have to call Security.
VINKA: I'll bet you can calculate pi to over a thousand digits.
EMH: Security to Sickbay.
AZEN: Have you ever balanced simultaneous equations?
EMH: Computer, deactivate Emergency Medical Hologram.

[On stage]
TINCOO: Here you are.
EMH: I needed to find some peace and quiet.
TINCOO: I want to show you something.
EMH: What's this?
TINCOO: You inspired me to create my own musical composition. It's based on the intersection of two fractals.
EMH: Tincoo, this is extraordinary.
TINCOO: I created it for you.
EMH: I don't know what to say.
TINCOO: Will you sing it?
EMH: I'm not sure I can. It's very complex. The melody's lovely, but some of these notes are well beyond the human vocal range.
TINCOO: You are not human.
EMH: No, but
TINCOO: I can help you reconfigure your vocal processors.
EMH: I don't think there's time. My last concert's tomorrow.
TINCOO: Why does it have to be your last concert?
EMH: Because Voyager is scheduled to depart.
TINCOO: Stay here with us.
EMH: I have responsibilities on Voyager.
TINCOO: They're a resourceful crew. I'm certain they will find a way to compensate for your absence.
EMH: I'm not so sure about that. But even if they could, Voyager's the only life I've ever known. The crew are my friends.
TINCOO: But they don't appreciate you the way we do. You know that. You could have a new life here as a performer, surrounded by people who admire and respect your talent.
EMH: It's very tempting, but
TINCOO: By any mathematical standard, the medical care of a hundred and fifty people cannot compare to the cultural enrichment of millions.
EMH: You can't always explain things with an equation, Tincoo.
TINCOO: What about the simplest equation of them all? One plus one.
EMH: I don't understand.
TINCOO: The time you have been here has been the most stimulating of my life.
EMH: I feel the same way about my time with you.
TINCOO: Then stay here with me.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: You're resigning your commission?
EMH: I've been asked to stay.
JANEWAY: When this all started, I thought you might have a little harmless fun, and that you'd be responsible enough to keep it in perspective. I can see now that I was mistaken.
EMH: This isn't harmless fun for me, Captain. It's a once in a lifetime opportunity to realize a dream.
JANEWAY: What about your duty to Voyager?
EMH: I take that very seriously, but
JANEWAY: You're a part of this ship.
EMH: You sound as if you're talking about a piece of equipment.
JANEWAY: That's not what I meant.
EMH: Then shouldn't I be given the same respect as any flesh and blood member of this crew?
JANEWAY: Every member of this crew is expected to fulfill his obligations.
EMH: If Harry Kim met an alien woman on an away mission, fell in love, and decided to spend the rest of his life with her, raise a family instead of continuing on this journey, you wouldn't stand in his way.
JANEWAY: You're not Harry Kim. You're an Emergency Medical Hologram.
EMH: Then you do see me as a piece of technology.
JANEWAY: I have given you extraordinary freedom, to explore your creativity, to go on away missions, to pursue personal relationships, but enough is enough.
EMH: Why? Because you don't see me as an equal, and you never have. Admit it.
JANEWAY: I am responsible for the medical needs of this crew. If I let you leave, what kind of captain would I be?
EMH: Every other Starfleet officer chose to be here, but I never had a choice, until now. I've given this crew everything for five years. Isn't it worth anything? Haven't I earned the right to self-determination? You've lost other systems before and always managed to find a solution. You'll manage without me.
JANEWAY: What about you? Will you manage without us?
EMH: The Qomar are a technologically advanced species. I have no doubt that my maintenance requirements will be met.
JANEWAY: Now which one of us is looking at you as a piece of technology? I'm not talking about your maintenance needs. I'm talking about your emotional needs. You've got people on this ship who care about you.
EMH: The Qomar certainly seem to care about me.
JANEWAY: And when their tastes change?
EMH: What makes you think that's going to happen?
JANEWAY: Fame is often temporary.
EMH: This isn't just about fame.
JANEWAY: Oh, really?
EMH: If you must know, there's a woman involved. One who appreciates me in a way no one on this crew ever has.
JANEWAY: Well, it sounds like you'll have everything you need.
EMH: I believe I will.
JANEWAY: I hope so, Doctor. Because once Voyager's gone, you won't be able to change your mind.
EMH: That's a risk I'm willing to take.
JANEWAY: As your Captain, I should refuse this resignation. But as your friend, it wouldn't be right to stand in your way.

[Sickbay]
EMH: And you can't let the Captain ignore her health. She's notorious for finding any excuse to miss her appointments.
PARIS: I'll send her weekly reminders.
EMH: And when Mister Neelix becomes convinced that he's suffering from the Toluncan ague, which he does every flu season, don't argue with him, just give him a placebo.
PARIS: Doc, I've been assisting you for three years. I know the drill.
EMH: Yes, I suppose you do. Remember, I'll be within comm. range for at least another month, so if any problems should arise.
PARIS: Doc, you're not really going to do this, are you?
EMH: I would have thought you of all people would be glad to see me go.
PARIS: Are you kidding? Who am I going to torment after you're gone?
EMH: Well, I've got some more goodbyes. I'll check in with you before I leave.
PARIS: I'll be here, redecorating your office.

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: Hello, Seven. I wanted to see you before I left. I've downloaded some social lessons we haven't covered yet. There are seventeen new chapters.
SEVEN: Does one of them include instructions for ending a friendship?
EMH: Our friendship's not over, Seven.
SEVEN: It will be difficult to maintain if we never see each other again.
EMH: I know it'll be hard for you when I'm gone.
SEVEN: I will adapt.
EMH: Yes, I suppose you will. But it'll be hard for me.
SEVEN: Why? You're getting everything you've ever wanted.
EMH: I thought you'd be the first one to understand my desire to grow as an individual.
SEVEN: What I don't understand is why you can't do that aboard Voyager.
EMH: I feel I've accomplished all I can here. Oh, there's the occasional medical mystery that challenges my programming, but mostly it's become routine. And frankly, I feel my talents are often taken for granted. But when I'm standing on that stage performing, and I see those rapt faces in the audience, I feel I finally know what it's like to be made of flesh and blood.
SEVEN: You simply crave attention, applause, fan mail.
EMH: What if I do?
SEVEN: Those things are irrelevant.
EMH: To you, maybe. But to me, it makes me feel appreciated, even loved. Not for what I've been programmed to do, but for who I've become.
KIM (voiceover): Doctor, you're receiving a transmission.
EMH: Route it to Cargo Bay two.
TINCOO (voiceover): Doctor, this is Tincoo. I want to see you immediately. I have something to show you.
EMH: What is it?
TINCOO (voiceover): A surprise. I think you'll be very pleased.
EMH: I'll beam down as soon as I can. Seven.
SEVEN: You shouldn't keep your fans waiting.

[Tincoo's lab]
TINCOO: Thank you for being so prompt.
EMH: Of course. What's the surprise?
TINCOO: I had an inspiration.
EMH: Another musical composition?
TINCOO: Better.
EMH: What's this?
TINCOO: I've solved all our problems.
EMH: I wasn't aware that we had any.
TINCOO: Well, you were reluctant to leave your ship, and you also doubted your ability to sing my composition, so I created a superior holomatrix.
EMH: I don't understand.
TINCOO: It's simple. Now you can stay aboard Voyager, and he can sing for us. Listen.
EMH: You can't make a superior singer simply by creating a new matrix.
QOMAR HOLOGRAM: I beg to differ. My vocal processors are enhanced with polyphonic sequencers. I am not only capable of singing notes well beyond your limited range, I can produce multi-harmonic overtones through the use of amplitude vacilla
TINCOO: Why did you do that?
EMH: Tincoo, music is more than mathematics. And I am much more than a program with musical subroutines. All of my experience, all of my passion, goes into every note that I sing. When you listen to me, when my singing moves you, you're not just hearing notes. You're hearing my artistry. My soul.
TINCOO: I've duplicated that, too.
EMH: I thought you wanted me.
TINCOO: I did, but now I've developed a far more sophisticated piece of technology.
EMH: Technology.
TINCOO: I thought you would be pleased. You seemed reluctant to leave your ship.
EMH: You told me that the time you had spent with me was the most stimulating of your life.
TINCOO: It was. You inspired me to do my greatest work.
EMH: But I thought
TINCOO: Yes?
EMH: That you and I
TINCOO: What?
EMH: Well, I suppose I'm no longer on the bill tomorrow.
TINCOO: Of course you are. It will be your farewell performance.
EMH: Of course.

[Medical lab]
TORRES: You wanted to see me?
EMH: I need your clearance code to delete my medical database.
TORRES: You sure you want to do that? If you give one of your fans a heart attack you won't be able to resuscitate him.
EMH: I need more space in my matrix.
TORRES: For what?
EMH: To expand my musical subroutines so that I can sing this composition.
TORRES: Well, I'm surprised you're asking me for help. I recall your saying that my appreciation for music was limited to a smattering of Klingon drinking songs.
EMH: Please, B'Elanna, I'm asking you as a friend. Everything depends on this.
TORRES: What's so important about this composition?
EMH: Tincoo wrote it for me.
TORRES: Your girlfriend?
EMH: I wouldn't call her that.
TORRES: Don't tell me you two had a fight.
EMH: Let's just say she doesn't appreciate me quite as much as I thought she did. But that will all change. Once I perform this, she will see me for the artist I truly am.
TORRES: Look, Doc, I don't know anything about this woman or why she doesn't appreciate you, and I may not be an expert on music, but I'm a pretty good engineer. I can expand your musical subroutines all you like. I can even reprogram you to be a whistling teapot. But, if I do that, it won't be you anymore.

[On stage]
EMH: Tonight, I was planning to perform a song composed by one of your own people. When you consider she heard music for the first time only a few days ago, it's an extraordinary accomplishment. But although it's a very beautiful composition, I'm afraid it's beyond my abilities. So instead, I'm going to sing an old Neapolitan ballad. It's a song about lost love. Sotto la grónda della torre antica, una róndine amica a lo sbocciar del almondo or lui tornata. Ritorni tutti l'anni sempre alla stessa data, monti e mari sa varca per tornar. Solo amore quando fugenda lontana sper invano, ma non torni piu. Sper invano ma non torna piu.
TINCOO: Thank you, Doctor. That was fascinating. It is because of your inspiration that I can now present to you a new and exciting musical program. A singing holographic matrix designed specifically to extend the range of humanoid vocal capabilities, singing my own musical composition.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
EMH: Good morning, Captain.
JANEWAY: What's this?
EMH: A formal request to be reinstated.
JANEWAY: So you've taken off your tails and put them between your legs.
EMH: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: You offended a lot of people who care about you.
EMH: I know. I was a fool. I'm sorry. And I'm willing to do whatever I can to rectify the situation. Starting with the deletion of all my musical subroutines.
JANEWAY: Permission denied.
EMH: But, Captain
JANEWAY: No buts, Doctor. You're expected to follow orders just like every other flesh and blood member of this crew. Resume your normal activities. All of them.
EMH: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Dismissed.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Oh, Seven, I didn't see you. I suppose you've come to gloat.
SEVEN: I have something for you.
EMH: What is it?
SEVEN: Fan mail.
EMH: Delete it. I don't want to read another word.
SEVEN: Then I'll read it for you.
EMH: Seven.
SEVEN: Dear Doctor. I regret that your last performance was not as successful as you'd hoped. There are still those who appreciate your unique talents and admire you as an individual. I'll always consider myself your loyal fan.
EMH: Who's it from?
SEVEN: It's signed Seven of Nine, Tertiary Adjunct of Unimatrix zero one.
EMH: I've been working on the railroad, All the livelong day. I've been working on the railroad, Just to pass the time away. Can't you hear the whistle blowing? Rise up so early in the morn.

[Delta Flyer]
KIM: Who left their dirty plate in the replicator? Tom?
PARIS: It wasn't me.
KIM: It's a biohazard.
PARIS: Take it easy. We'll decontaminate you when we get back home.
KIM: If I ever volunteer for a two week away mission again, would somebody please confine me to Sickbay?
CHAKOTAY: Too much togetherness for you, Harry?
KIM: Nothing personal, Commander.
NEELIX: To tell you the truth, I've enjoyed our little junket together. It's given the four of us a chance to bond.
KIM: The bonding stopped when the sonic shower went offline.
NEELIX: That's all part of the experience, the adventure. Think of the great explorers that came before us. They survived without creature comforts.
KIM: I wouldn't want to bunk with them, either.
PARIS: Now there's a sight for sore eyes.
CHAKOTAY: Delta Flyer to Voyager. We're on our approach.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We've kept a candle burning in the window for you.
PARIS: Forget the candles, break out the champagne.
JANEWAY (voiceover): I take it the mission was a success?
PARIS: Fifteen planets scanned in fourteen days. We've got a cargo hold overflowing with dilithium ore.
JANEWAY (voiceover): That's the kind of news I like to hear.

[Corridor]
EMH: The explorers return.
TORRES: Welcome home.
PARIS: I should go away more often.
KIM: I'm not going away for a long, long time.
TORRES: Homesick, Harry?
KIM: Let's just say I'm looking forward to a hot shower and a comfortable bed.
EMH: Don't forget to stop by Sickbay for your check-up.
PARIS: Check-up? For what?
EMH: Away team protocol. Crew members are required to submit to a physical if the mission lasts more than two weeks. Now, who's first?
CHAKOTAY: I'll let you know in the morning, Doctor.
EMH: Why put off till tomorrow what you can do today? Commander? Mister Paris?
TORRES: I've been working on a little surprise for you.
PARIS: Oh? Naughty, or nice?
TORRES: Close your eyes.
PARIS: I like it already.

[Paris' quarters]
TORRES: Come on. So what do you think?
PARIS: Oh! A television set.
TORRES: Circa 1956. I replicated the components, but I assembled it myself. This is the remote control. You select what you want to watch by pressing this button.
PARIS: A slight problem. There were no remote controls in the 1950's.
TORRES: I took a little poetic license.
PARIS: Cartoon!
TORRES: I found them in the ship's database.
TV: Vacuum Action! Mop, mop, don't stop
PARIS: What's that?
TORRES: That is called a jingle. According to the research I did, they inserted them into the entertainment programs. I know, it's confusing, but I kept them in for authenticity. I even replicated popcorn.
PARIS: Everything is perfect except for one tiny detail.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: You forgot the beer.
TORRES: I can fix that.
TORRES: You didn't miss much while you were away. The Doctor gave a lecture on insects indigenous to the Delta Quadrant.
PARIS: Ah ha.
TORRES: It was pretty boring, until Ensign Farley started snoring and then no one could keep a straight face. Of course, the Doctor wasn't at all amused.
PARIS: Ooo! Hockey!
TORRES: It was a shame that we had to cut the lecture short, but the warp core overloaded and then the Borg invaded and we were all assimilated.
PARIS: Mmm hmm.
TORRES: You haven't heard a single thing I've said, have you?
PARIS: Oh! Look at that!
TORRES: Maybe this was a bad idea.
TV: This is Eliot Ness. Come out, we don't want any trouble!
TV: We're under attack. Stay down. Keep moving. Somebody cover me.
TV: We need a medic over here. Stay down. Move it. Stay low.

[Battlefield]
SOLDIER (voiceover): I said hold your fire!
SOLDIER 2 (voiceover): I need a medic.
SOLDIER (voiceover): Keep moving.
TORRES (voiceover): Tom?

[Paris' quarters]
TORRES: Tom? Tom. It must have been one hell of a dream.
PARIS: I was, I was in the middle of a battlefield. I was grazed right, right here. They always said television was a bad influence.
TORRES: How about a nice cartoon? That should chase away the nightmare.
PARIS: No! No, I think I've had enough.

[Sickbay]
EMH: It sounds like you had an anxiety attack.
KIM: I've never been claustrophobic before.
EMH: There's a first time for everything.
KIM: Do you know what could have caused it?
EMH: Let's see. You spend two weeks on an away mission, working eighteen hour days, then as soon as you return to Voyager you become Ensign Eager, back on duty and raring to go.
KIM: I had work to do. There was a plasma leak on deck five.
EMH: Plasma leak or no plasma leak, you're suffering from exhaustion. I'm recommending you take the next two days off.
KIM: But I
EMH: I can always make it three.
KIM: You win. I guess I am pretty tired.

[Mess hall]
NAOMI: Welcome back.
NEELIX: Oh, hello.
NAOMI: Did you have a good trip?
NEELIX: Wonderful, thank you.
NAOMI: You look tired.
NEELIX: Do I? Just a little shuttle lag. Don't you have a geometry lesson? You don't want to keep your teacher waiting.
NAOMI: Seven of Nine assigned me a special project. I'm supposed to build a tetragon but I have to use everyday things. I'm not allowed to use a replicator. I was thinking about using some vegetables from the airponics bay. Carrots and celery? Neelix?
NEELIX: Carrots and celery. A good idea.
NAOMI: Will you help me?
NEELIX: I don't think I'll have time today.
NAOMI: Tonight?
NEELIX: I don't think that I'll have time then either. Lot of work to do.
NAOMI: Then why don't I help you? What's cooking? Ouch!
NEELIX: Let me see your hand!
NAOMI: I'm okay.
NEELIX: Your hand! We've got to get you to Sickbay.
NAOMI: I'm fine.
NEELIX: Sickbay!
NEELIX: Get down. Stay behind me.
NAOMI: What?
NEELIX: I said get down!

[Forest]
SOLDER (voiceover): I'm hit!
SOLDIER 2 (voiceover): Someone help me with this, please
SOLDIER 3 (voiceover): Keep moving. Move out to the left contingent.
CHAKOTAY: Try not to move.
DYING COLONIST: Get away from me.
CHAKOTAY: I can help you.
DYING COLONIST: I don't want your help.
CHAKOTAY: Hold your fire. I said, hold your fire!
SOLDIER ONE: We're under attack, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Saavdra, where is he?
YOUNG SOLDIER: I think he's at base.
SOLDIER (voiceover): Let's move out.
CHAKOTAY: We were supposed to evacuate the colony, not destroy it!
SAAVDRA: That was before the Nakan started shooting.
CHAKOTAY: They're civilians!
SAAVDRA: Civilians with particle weapons.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to Commander Chakotay.

[Chakotay's quarters]
TUVOK (voiceover): Commander, please respond.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK (voiceover): We have a security breach in the mess hall.
CHAKOTAY: I'm on my way.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Tell them to call off the attack.
TUVOK: Put down your weapon, Neelix. Let us help you.
NEELIX: Stay away! I won't let you hurt her! Get back!
TUVOK: He appears to be hallucinating.
CHAKOTAY: Neelix, this is Commander Chakotay. Let Naomi go. No one's going to hurt her. That's an order.
NEELIX: No! Not until Saavdra's called off his attack.
TUVOK: There's a back entrance to the galley. If you can distract him, perhaps I
CHAKOTAY: I want to try something first. Neelix, listen to me. It's okay, Saavdra ordered a cease-fire. The colony's secure. The battle is over.
NEELIX: Why do I still hear weapons fire?
CHAKOTAY: It's just a few soldiers. They're celebrating. The battle's over.
NAOMI: Neelix, please.
CHAKOTAY: I'll protect Naomi.
NEELIX: How do I know you won't trick me?
CHAKOTAY: Because I'm on your side. I want to end this conflict as much as you do. Let her go. It's safe now. The killing's over.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I gave him a mild sedative.
JANEWAY: Any idea what caused the delusions?
EMH: His norepinephrine levels are three times what they should be. Neurochemically speaking, he's suffering from a form of post-traumatic stress syndrome.
CHAKOTAY: I dreamed I was fighting in an alien war. The same war Neelix seemed to be reliving.
EMH: Harry Kim was in earlier. He had an anxiety attack. I haven't spoken with Mister Paris yet.
JANEWAY: Three members of the same away team. Did you run into any kind of trouble while you were gone?
CHAKOTAY: None. The mission was by the book.
EMH: Your engramatic activities contradict that, Commander. These are real memories, not mere dreams or hallucinations.
JANEWAY: Maybe you were abducted, manipulated into fighting. Our memories have been tampered with before. We're going to retrace your mission. Start reviewing the Delta Flyer's sensor logs. See if you come up with anything unusual. How long before Neelix is back on his feet?
EMH: I can wake him now, if you'd like.
JANEWAY: Do it. Each of you seems to hold a piece of the puzzle. Let's see if we can start putting them together.

[Briefing room]
PARIS: I don't remember much, just bits and pieces. I dreamt I was on a planet in the middle of a battle. I have no idea how I got there. I can't remember.
KIM: When I was in the Jefferies tube I heard weapons fire, screams. People were screaming. I got so frightened.
JANEWAY: Of what?
KIM: I, I don't know.
PARIS: I remember getting shot.
EMH: There's no evidence of a wound.
CHAKOTAY: If our memories were wiped, our physical injuries could have been masked as well.
JANEWAY: Do any of you recall who you were fighting?
NEELIX: It was dark. I couldn't see them very well.
PARIS: They were firing at us.
NEELIX: The Nakaa. The Nakana.
KIM: The Nakan. They were called the Nakan.
PARIS: Right. Right. They, they lived in a remote colony. We were trying to evacuate them.
NEELIX: But they were fighting us.
KIM: Why couldn't they just do what they were told?
NEELIX: We had no right to be there!
KIM: It was for their own good.
JANEWAY: Gentlemen, stay focused. You said you were trying to evacuate their colony. Why?
PARIS: Those were our orders.
EMH: Who gave them?
CHAKOTAY: Saavdra.
PARIS: Commander Saavdra.
KIM: He was in charge of our unit. We were part of an attack force.
JANEWAY: You were coerced.
PARIS: No. No, I volunteered. We all did.
EMH: I find that difficult to believe. You were obviously manipulated somehow.
NEELIX: No. No, no, no, no, I remember now. We held a briefing to plan the evacuation. You were there, Commander. Mister Paris.
PARIS: It was a command post.
KIM: That's right. It was night, oh two hundred hours.
CHAKOTAY: We'd been awake for days. We were exhausted.

[Command post]
SAAVDRA: What do our spotters report?
KIM: The Nakan are unarmed. They won't put up a fight.
SAAVDRA: Once we've disabled their shield generators, we'll deploy units five and six. They may be unarmed, but they won't be happy to see us. Don't provoke them. I want to come out of this with zero casualties on both sides.
SOLDIER ONE: Understood.
PARIS: The perimeter's the weakest in sector fourteen. The terrain's very flat.
NEELIX: It's an ideal landing spot for transports.
SAAVDRA: Once we've secured the village, take the colonists there. Get them aboard. Do your best to reassure them. Make them understand that this is a temporary relocation. That they're going to be back there in a few weeks. Understood?
NEELIX: Aye, aye, sir.
SAAVDRA: Problem?
CHAKOTAY: Just one. This unit could use a little sleep. I suggest we wait until daybreak.
SAAVDRA: I promised Command we'd have this colony secured today.
CHAKOTAY: It can wait a few hours.
SAAVDRA: I'm sorry. But when this mission's over, how does a week on Toranius Prime sound?
CHAKOTAY: Never been there.
SAAVDRA: Compared to this place, it's paradise.

[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: The mission proceeded as planned. We disabled their shield generators and entered the colony.
KIM: We were rounding up the Nakan. To be honest, I expected them to give us a little more trouble.
NEELIX: But then we came to the last enclosure. Do you remember the last enclosure? It was empty. Where were they? They were supposed to be there.
PARIS: Twenty four colonists unaccounted for. We thought the spotters had made a mistake. We should have known something was wrong. We should have gotten out then.

[Enclosure]
SOLDIER: This way. Stay in line. Keep moving.
CHAKOTAY: Evacuation detail to base. We're ready for transport.
SAAVDRA (voiceover): Transport's on approach.
FEMALE COLONIST: I have to find my husband.
PARIS: Don't worry. He'll be on one of the transports.
FEMALE COLONIST: Which one?
PARIS: I don't know, but we'll find him.
CHAKOTAY: Everybody down! Base, we're under attack. Repeat. We're under attack!

[Briefing room]
PARIS: Those missing colonists, they were armed. They fired the first shots. It wasn't our fault!
CHAKOTAY: We can't be sure of that. It could have been one of our own people. Fatigue. A phaser malfunction. You just don't know!
NEELIX: Either way, it doesn't justify what we did.
JANEWAY: What did you do? What happened down there?

[Enclosure]
CHAKOTAY: Keep moving. Stay together. Hold your fire!
NEELIX: Stay down!
CHAKOTAY: Stay together.
KIM: Stop running. Stop!
NEELIX: Get down! Get down, get down, get down! Stop running! Stop running!

[Briefing room]
KIM: We didn't have any other choice.
CHAKOTAY: Like hell we didn't.
KIM: They were wiping us out!
CHAKOTAY: That didn't give us the right to murder civilians.
NEELIX: I tried to protect the children, but I couldn't stop them from running away.
KIM: I ran too. Sounds of phaser fire. People shouting. I had to get out of there.

[Cavern]
WOMAN: Please, don't hurt us.
KIM: Move where I can see you! Move!
WOMAN: Please, please, he's no threat to you.
KIM: Tell me how I can get out of these tunnels and I'll leave you alone. Tell me!
WOMAN: Go back the way you came. At the second fork take the tunnel to your left. Follow it to the end. It will lead you to the river.

[Briefing room]
KIM: He was going to kill me.
PARIS: Easy, Harry.
KIM: They wouldn't listen! Why? Why wouldn't they listen?
CHAKOTAY: We killed eighty two civilians that night. No one was left alive.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We've entered the system where the away team conducted its recent survey, hoping to find an explanation for their memories of the Nakan massacre.

[Paris' quarters]
PARIS: Yeah. Yeah!
TORRES: Missed you at breakfast.
PARIS: I wasn't hungry.
TORRES: Sleep a little?
PARIS: Five, six minutes.
TORRES: I found another episode of The Untouchables. Elliot Ness captures somebody named Al Caypone.
PARIS: Capone. Maybe later.
TORRES: Well, you've got to eat something. Pizza?
PARIS: Look, I appreciate what you're trying to do, but I'd rather just be alone.
TORRES: Tom.
PARIS: No. I don't want to be comforted right now.
TORRES: I know the last few days have been difficult.
PARIS: Difficult. Difficult doesn't quite cover it. I helped murder eighty two innocent people.
TORRES: You don't know that.
PARIS: I know what I remember.
TORRES: The Doctor says your memories could have been altered.
PARIS: I was there! When I close my eyes, I can see the bodies. I, I can hear the weapons fire. I can feel where I was shot.
TORRES: Then why isn't there evidence of a wound?
PARIS: I don't know!
TORRES: All I'm asking is that you consider the possibility that this didn't happen. We'll keep investigating. There are sensor readings on the Delta Flyer that we haven't even analyzed yet.
PARIS: I can't concentrate on sensor readings right now.
TORRES: Try.
PARIS: I can't! Stop pushing me! I don't want your help!
PARIS: I'm sorry.
TORRES: You know where to find me.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: This was your first stop on the away mission. A class M planet with one natural satellite.
JANEWAY: Did you send anyone to the surface?
CHAKOTAY: No, we only scanned for dilithium deposits. We were in orbit for less than an hour.
JANEWAY: Next.
SEVEN: You came into contact with this vessel en route to your second destination.
CHAKOTAY: Captain Bathar of Hodos.
JANEWAY: Photogenic.
CHAKOTAY: He's a merchant. Claimed to have a formula that stops the aging process.
JANEWAY: Oh, you didn't happen to buy any, did you?
CHAKOTAY: It was only a tripolymer enzyme. It makes a great shoe polish though.
JANEWAY: Moving on.
SEVEN: Your second stop.
JANEWAY: Tarakis. The planet, it's called Tarakis. I've been here.

[Enclosure]
JANEWAY: What the hell are you doing?
SAAVDRA: Stand aside.
JANEWAY: They're already dead.
SAAVDRA: They were never here. We disabled their shield generators, entered the colony and they were gone.
JANEWAY: No one's going to believe that.
SAAVDRA: They will if we all keep to the same story.
JANEWAY: I won't lie about what happened here.
SAAVDRA: Then you say nothing.
JANEWAY: We murdered these people!
SAAVDRA: In self defense.
JANEWAY: If that were true, you wouldn't be vaporising the evidence. You don't have to listen to him! We've got to let people know we panicked. They'll understand!
SAAVDRA: No, they won't. Move away. I said, move away!

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Oh! How long have I been here?
EMH: Three hours. You started hallucinating in Astrometrics. I'm afraid I had to sedate you.
JANEWAY: I was there. I was at the colony with Saavdra.
EMH: You're not the only one. Thirty nine crew members have begun to experience the same memories.
TUVOK: It appears that the entire crew has been affected.
EMH: Their symptoms are identical. Increased engramatic activity, nightmares.
JANEWAY: I can imagine the away team being pulled into an alien conflict, but these people weren't anywhere near this system.
TUVOK: We've analyzed Voyager's sensor records. If we did participate in a war, all evidence of it has been erased.
JANEWAY: The dream was so vivid. As real as anything I've experienced. But I refuse to believe that we could
EMH: Real or not, the memories are having a deleterious effect on the crew. The syndrome began to spread once we entered this system. I suggest we reverse course before it gets worse.
JANEWAY: No. If this massacre really happened, someone is to blame. I want to be certain that it wasn't us.
TUVOK: With all due respect, your judgment may be clouded by feelings of guilt about an incident that never occurred. The danger to our crew here and now is indisputable.
JANEWAY: I've seen you looking better, Ensign.
ENSIGN: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: I've felt better myself. But were going to get through this. The massacre took place on Tarakis. Go to Red alert and set a course.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
EMH: A neural suppressant. It will help keep the memories from resurfacing.
SEVEN: Your favorites. Talaxian stew and terra nut soufflé. The soufflé has collapsed slightly, but its nutritional content is intact.
NEELIX: Thank you. It looks delicious.
SEVEN: When Naomi Wildman is sad, she consumes desserts. She claims it improves her emotional state. Perhaps you should try it.
NEELIX: Naomi must be terrified of me, after what happened in the galley.
SEVEN: She's concerned about you. She told me she wants to visit you.
NEELIX: No. Not like this. I might do something to scare her again.
SEVEN: I'll give her your regards.
NEELIX: Seven? When you were a Borg, you were involved in some unpleasant activities.
SEVEN: I helped to assimilate millions.
NEELIX: I don't mean to be insensitive, but do you ever feel shame about what you did?
SEVEN: Frequently.
NEELIX: How to you manage to keep going, knowing that you've done such horrible things?
SEVEN: I have no choice.
NEELIX: Guilt is irrelevant?
SEVEN: On the contrary. My feelings of remorse help me remember what I did, and prevent me from taking similar actions in the future. Guilt can be a difficult, but useful, emotion.
NEELIX: It's certainly difficult. Is that chocolate mixed in there with the terra nuts?
SEVEN: I altered the recipe slightly. I hope you don't object.
NEELIX: Not at all.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Tarakis, dead ahead.
JANEWAY: Shields. Stand by weapons. On screen. Scan for vessels.
TUVOK: There are none.
JANEWAY: Take us into orbit.
PARIS: Ma'am?
JANEWAY: Do it, Mister Paris.
CHAKOTAY: Life signs?
TUVOK: The planet appears to be uninhabited.
KIM: Looks the same as it did a few days ago when we scanned for dilithium deposits.
CHAKOTAY: Signs of weapons fire or phaser residue?
TUVOK: Negative.
JANEWAY: Run a full spectral scan. Look for anything unusual.
TUVOK: Nothing on geometric sensors.
KIM: Hold on. I'm picking up a power signature.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM: I can't tell. The signal's erratic, but it's coming from the northernmost continent. Coordinates one seven two mark five.

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: Phasers.

[Tarakis - open meadow]
CHAKOTAY: Call it an educated guess, but I don't think this looks like a war zone.
JANEWAY: There's something familiar about it, though. I recognize those mountains.
KIM: Those trees weren't here.
JANEWAY: Search the area.
TUVOK: Ensign?
KIM: The tunnel. It's nearby. The one where I, er
PARIS: How'd you get into it?
KIM: There was a rock formation. It hid the opening.
JANEWAY: A faint energy signature. This way.
KIM: Over here.
PARIS: There's your physical evidence.
TUVOK: I suggest we proceed with caution. Stand guard.

[Tunnel]
KIM: I, I, I can't!
TUVOK: Remain calm. Slow, deep breaths.

[Cavern]
KIM: They were over there.
TUVOK: I've found the remains of two humanoids, but you were not responsible for their deaths. They died over three hundred years ago.

[Memorial field]
JANEWAY: I think we've found our war.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: The structure contains a synaptic transmitter. I believe it was designed to send neurogenic pulses throughout this system.
JANEWAY: So anyone passing through would experience the Nakan massacre, like we did.
SEVEN: Precisely.
CHAKOTAY: Try running those symbols inscribed on the base through the translation matrix. Words alone cannot convey the suffering. Words alone cannot prevent what happened here from happening again. Beyond words lies experience. Beyond experience lies truth. Make this truth your own.
JANEWAY: It's a memorial. We weren't victims of a conspiracy, we were witnesses to a massacre.
CHAKOTAY: More than witnesses. By being forced to relive those events, half the crew's been traumatized.
JANEWAY: Maybe that was the point. I certainly won't forget what happened here.
CHAKOTAY: Anything in that database that might tell us who built this thing?
SEVEN: No. The technology has been neglected for more than two centuries. Its power cells are deteriorating.
JANEWAY: That could explain why our memories were so fragmented. It was probably designed to transmit the experience in sequence.
CHAKOTAY: Fascinating. Now let's try to shut it down so nobody else has to go through this. Kathryn?
JANEWAY: Yes, of course.

[Briefing room]
EMH: Even if we do shut down the transmitter, I'm afraid your memories of the massacre are permanent.
TUVOK: But we'll prevent this from happening to other passing ships.
NEELIX: If we do that, all record of what happened here would be lost.
CHAKOTAY: The monument will still be here.
NEELIX: But that doesn't really tell the story. Someone put a lot of time and care into building that transmitter. We can't just deactivate it. We don't have the right.
KIM: Did they have the right to force us to relive all that?
NEELIX: They wanted others to know what it was like, in the hopes that nothing like it would happen again.
CHAKOTAY: Why should anyone have to experience an atrocity they didn't commit?
NEELIX: Because that's how you learn not to make the same mistake. If we destroy the evidence, we're no better than Saavdra.
PARIS: Maybe he had a point.
KIM: It wasn't our fault!
TUVOK: Given the danger involved, it's only logical
NEELIX: This isn't about logic. It's about remembering.
CHAKOTAY: Some things are best forgotten.
JANEWAY: Not this. I stood by once before and did nothing. Not again.
EMH: Captain?
JANEWAY: I watched while Saavdra vaporized the bodies.
PARIS: No offense but, those were other peoples' memories.
JANEWAY: The obelisk at Khitomer. The fields of Gettysburg. Those are other peoples' memories too, but we don't honor them any less. The eighty two colonists who died here, they deserve their memorial.
CHAKOTAY: Captain.
JANEWAY: We're not going to shut down the transmitter. Is that clear? Is that clear?
TUVOK: Are you suggesting we leave it intact?
JANEWAY: I'm suggesting that we repair it. Recharge the power cells. I want that monument to function properly for another three hundred years. We'll place a warning buoy in orbit. Anyone who enters this system will know what to expect. Dismissed.

[Memorial field]
CHAKOTAY: We're ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: I know this was hardest on the four of you. But if you hadn't stopped at this planet all the people who died here would have been forgotten. And if they could, I know they'd thank you. Janeway to Voyager. Stand by to initiate power transfer. Five to beam up.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 53447.2. The crew's enjoying a much needed shore leave on the Norcadian homeworld while I visit Pendari, a planet in the neighboring system. I'm leaving Commander Chakotay in charge of Voyager.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: You may want to run a diagnostic on the shield generators. It's way overdue.
CHAKOTAY: Consider it done.
JANEWAY: And don't forget to keep tabs on Neelix's little project in the mess hall.
CHAKOTAY: He's still trying to enhance the plasma burners in his stove?
JANEWAY: With some of Seven's Borg technology. I don't want him accidentally turning the galley into an assimilation chamber.
CHAKOTAY: I'll assign a security detail to keep tabs on him. Unless you think we need to take more drastic measures?
JANEWAY: And most important, be sure to tell your Captain when she's being overprotective.
CHAKOTAY: I'll do that.
JANEWAY: Thanks again for minding the store.
CHAKOTAY: Even the captain deserves a vacation once in a while.
JANEWAY: And her First Officer?
CHAKOTAY: He's looking forward to putting his feet up on your desk.
TORRES: Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Fun last night, wasn't it?
TORRES: There's another match scheduled at fifteen hundred.
CHAKOTAY: I've got a systems diagnostic.
TORRES: Correct me if I'm wrong, but you're in command until the captain gets back.
CHAKOTAY: What's your point?
TORRES: Delegate. I happen to know that Harry's free this afternoon.

[Mess hall]
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant, you're not suggesting I abuse my power.
TORRES: Tell me that's not lunch.
NEELIX: It's leola ointment for my skin.
CHAKOTAY: What happened?
NEELIX: I was so excited to visit one of those beautiful Norcadian beaches that I forgot to take my dermaline hypospray. I fell asleep under two suns.
TORRES: Ouch.
NEELIX: A little more color than I was hoping for, but it'll be a beautiful amber before you know it. How's your shore leave been?
TORRES: Well, we've spent the last few days at the Tsunkatse matches.
NEELIX: Tsunkatse. I heard some crewmen talking about that during breakfast.
CHAKOTAY: It's exciting. A real test of strength and agility.
TORRES: You should come to the match with us this afternoon.
SEVEN: From what I've heard, Tsunkatse is crude and pointless.
TORRES: Well, I guess we won't be saving you a seat.
CHAKOTAY: What about you, Tuvok? You appreciate the martial arts.
TUVOK: I have other plans. There's a micro-nebula approximately one point six light years from here on the verge of collapse.
SEVEN: We'd like to take a shuttle to study it.
NEELIX: An away mission during shore leave?
SEVEN: Commander Tuvok and I don't require recreational activities.
TORRES: The Borg wouldn't know fun if they assimilated an amusement park.
CHAKOTAY: It's your shore leave. But try to enjoy yourselves. That's an order.

[Cargo Bay two]
PARIS: Here's the navigational data you asked for.
SEVEN: Thank you.
PARIS: How long are you planning on being gone?
SEVEN: Approximately forty eight hours.
PARIS: Just like B'Elanna.
SEVEN: Clarify.
PARIS: She over-packs too.
SEVEN: I haven't over-packed. I simply wish to be prepared for any contingency.
PARIS: And what contingency is this for?
SEVEN: That's an iso-modulator, enhanced to correct hull ablation in the event we encounter a meteoroid stream.
PARIS: Couldn't you just replicate an iso-modulator?
SEVEN: I prefer this one.
PARIS: Oh, I get it. You like to have your own things with you. B'Elanna's the same way. You know, she'd never admit it, but she still takes a stuffed animal with her whenever she's going to be away for more than a day. Toby the Targ.
SEVEN: Can Toby the Targ correct hull ablation? Your comparison is flawed.

[Corridor]
EMH: Just the person I was looking for.
SEVEN: You require my assistance?
EMH: Your company. I was wondering if you care to join me on a tour of Norcadia's cultural hot spots. I hear their museums are among the finest in this sector.
SEVEN: I'm busy.
EMH: With what?
SEVEN: Commander Tuvok and I are leaving to study a collapsing micro-nebula.
EMH: During shore leave? I thought we'd discussed this. Shore leave is a perfect opportunity for you to spend time with other members of the crew, to develop your social skills.
SEVEN: Then I suppose I'll have to develop them with Commander Tuvok.
EMH: Vulcans aren't exactly known for their winning personalities.
SEVEN: You'd prefer I spent my time with sociable individuals such as yourself.
EMH: You could do worse.
SEVEN: In that case, perhaps you'd care to join us.
EMH: To study the micro-nebula?
SEVEN: You can assist us with our analysis of veridium oxide particulates.
EMH: On second thought, you and Tuvok have a good time.
SEVEN: I'll give the Commander your regrets.
EMH: Do that. And if the nebula isn't as riveting as you'd hoped, try to remember lesson thirty six. Pleasant Parlor Games To Pass The Time. You'll need it.

[Shuttlecraft]
SEVEN: Two hours, thirty seven minutes, thirteen seconds. That's how long we've gone without verbal communication.
TUVOK: Why is that remarkable?
SEVEN: The Doctor encourages me to engage in conversation during awkward silences.
TUVOK: Did you find the silence awkward?
SEVEN: No.
TUVOK: Nor did I.
SEVEN: There's a vessel approaching on an intercept course. The hull configuration is unfamiliar.
TUVOK: Distance?
SEVEN: Approximately three hundred thousand kilometers.
TUVOK: Hail them.
SEVEN: No response.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager.
SEVEN: The vessel is emitting some kind of dampening field. We've lost engines, weapons, shields.
TUVOK: It's an explosive device of some sort.
SEVEN: Transporters are down. I can't beam it off.
TUVOK: I'll try to disarm it.

[Tsunkatse living quarters]
PENK: Borg-enhanced physiology. You should possess superior strength, agility, stamina, and visual acuity. Welcome to Tsunkatse. Since the game's inception our audience has never had the pleasure of seeing a drone compete. You are going to be a very popular attraction.
SEVEN: Where is Commander Tuvok?
PENK: Your comrade from the shuttle? I'm afraid he was injured in the explosion.
SEVEN: I wish to see him. Now.
PENK: Certainly. You will learn nothing is more important to me than the comfort and happiness of my fighters.
HIROGEN: Yes, Penk's generosity is legendary.
PENK: Quiet! He's envious because I've found a new favorite.
SEVEN: I have no intention of participating in your game.
PENK: Aggressive. I like that.
SEVEN: He requires medical attention.
PENK: That can be arranged.
SEVEN: Then arrange it.
PENK: You haven't won a single bout, and already you're making demands like a champion.
SEVEN: Will you treat him or not?
PENK: Will you fight?
TUVOK: Do not comply. My condition is not severe.
PENK: Spoken like a true competitor, willing to ignore his injuries for the sake of the contest. Schedule a bout for him. A Red Match against the Pensarkan.
HIROGEN: A Red Match does not end until one of the competitors is killed. Your friend would not survive.
PENK: But you might.
HIROGEN: Give her a Blue Match, Penk. You wouldn't want to lose your new favorite her first time in the pit.
PENK: Yes. We should start you off slowly.
SEVEN: Treat him, and I will comply.

[Mess hall]
TORRES: What about the seventh match?
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking the Vensiddian.
KIM: He lost his last two times out.
CHAKOTAY: But he's undefeated against left-handed fighters.
PARIS: You should trust him, Harry. Chakotay knows a thing or two about southpaws.
TORRES: He was twenty three and oh as a light heavyweight.
CHAKOTAY: Twenty three and and one, actually. A Nausicaan with a mean right hook.
KIM: You think that's bad? Try taking a parrises mallet to the ribs.
CHAKOTAY: I didn't know you played.
KIM: Three time Academy champion. Now, that's a tough sport.
CHAKOTAY: I boxed a few parrises players in my day.
TORRES: And?
CHAKOTAY: Let's just say they went back to playing parrises squares after that.
KIM: Oh, was that a challenge, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: I wouldn't want to put my Ops officer out of commission, now, would I?
KIM: I can take a punch.
TORRES: Careful, Harry. Legend has it that the Tattooed Terror has put more men in Sickbay than the Ankaran flu.
PARIS: Yeah, you wouldn't want to bruise your clarinet fingers.
KIM: Hey, you want to go a few rounds, or all you all talk?
PARIS: Any time, any place.
KIM: Oh, you punch like a Ferengi.

[Corridor]
TORRES: I don't care what Harry says. The Pensarkan-Bendali match is too close to call.
CHAKOTAY: I'll let you know how it turns out.
TORRES: Excuse me?
CHAKOTAY: I rearranged the duty schedules this morning. You've got the bridge starting at fourteen hundred hours.
TORRES: You're sticking me with that shift so that you can go to the fight.
CHAKOTAY: I'm delegating.
TORRES: Me and my big mouth.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you'd be pleased that I took your advice.
TORRES: Words fail me. Now remind me. The reason that you have to see that fight is because?
CHAKOTAY: I'm an anthropologist.
TORRES: What does that have to do with Tsunkatse?
CHAKOTAY: It's a cultural phenomenon.

[Sickbay]
EMH: You're having an allergic reaction to your leola ointment. I hope you've learned your lesson. Talaxian homeopathy is no substitute for medical science. This should help with the swelling and discoloration.
NEELIX: Ow.
EMH: But you'll have to stay out of the sun.
NEELIX: What about the rest of my shore leave?
EMH: I suggest you limit it to indoor activities.
NEELIX: Commander Chakotay and B'Elanna invited me to the Tsunkatse matches. I guess I'll go.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: I'm disappointed in you, Mister Neelix. Cheering for one individual to inflict serious injury on another hardly seems like an activity you'd enjoy.
NEELIX: Well, Commander Chakotay says that it's a wonderful demonstration of athletic prowess.
EMH: You seem to be forgetting that Commander Chakotay is an aficionado of boxing, arguably the most barbaric sport in Earth's history. Surely you can find some way to occupy your free time that doesn't involve alien fisticuffs.
NEELIX: Do you have any suggestions?
EMH: As a matter of fact, I was planning a visit to the Norcadian Museum of Entomology this afternoon. There's a fascinating exhibit of beetle larvae from the equatorial sub-continent. You're welcome to join me.
NEELIX: Hmm, alien bugs, or alien fisticuffs. Ooo, that's a tough one.

[Tsunkatse arena]
CROWD: Tsunkat, tsunkat, tsunkat.
NEELIX: You were right, Commander. This is exciting. Two opponents, alone in the pit, with only their strength and agility to protect them.
CHAKOTAY: I'm glad you're enjoying yourself.
NEELIX: I still don't understand the rules.
CHAKOTAY: It's simple. A Tsunkatse fighter wears a polaron disruptor on both hands and feet. Each disruptor delivers a bio-plasmic charge when it comes in contact one of the opponent's target sensors.
NEELIX: So there is strategy involved?
CHAKOTAY: A fighter has to attack his rival's sensors without exposing his own.
PARIS: Are you two going to talk, or you here to watch?
NEELIX: He looks like he could pick up a shuttlecraft.
KIM: He's a Pendari. They're known for their superior strength.
PARIS: And their bad temper.
KIM: I hear they have a tendency to throw their opponents into the stands.
PARIS: Be ready to duck.
NEELIX: Seven?
KIM: Seven! Seven!
CHAMPION: You're no bigger than a Tarkanian field mouse. Penk's insulting me by putting you in the pit to face me.
SEVEN: I must warn you. I possess superior strength.
CHAMPION: I'm trembling.
KIM: Seven! Seven!
NEELIX: Seven!
SEVEN: I assure you, resistance is futile.
CHAMPION: So is all your talk.
NEELIX: Seven!
PARIS: It's no use. She can't hear us.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Come in!
TORRES: Calling to give me a blow-by-blow description of the match, Commander?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Seven of Nine is in the pit.
TORRES: What?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): No time to explain. Beam her out of there.

[Tsunkatse arena]
SEVEN: I have no desire to inflict further damage.
CHAMPION: I'm afraid I can't say the same.

[Bridge]
TORRES: I'm locked onto the coordinates of the pit. Seven's not there.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I'm looking right at her!
TORRES: Not according to these sensors.

[Tsunkatse arena]
KIM: Maybe their lifesigns are masked?
CHAKOTAY: Try recalibrating the bioscanners.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Acknowledged.

[Tsunkatse arena]
TORRES (voiceover): There's nothing to lock onto. The only readings I'm picking up are photonic.
KIM: Holograms?
PARIS: They're transmitting the fight from another location.

[Tsunkatse combat pit]
PENK: Transmission to one of the arenas on Norcadia Prime is being disrupted. Compensate.

[Tsunkatse arena]
CROWD: Tsunkat! Tsunkat! Tsunkat! Tsunkat! Tsunkat! Tsunkat!
CHAKOTAY: Voyager, four to beam up.

[Delta Flyer]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We've scanned the Norcadian surface, Captain. There's no sign of them.
JANEWAY: Any luck tracing the transmission?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We're trying, but it's not easy.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: There are transmissions being sent to every planet in the sector.
JANEWAY (screen): I guess you aren't the only ones who enjoy this sport.
TORRES: It could take days before we can figure out where Seven and Tuvok are being held.
JANEWAY (screen): What about diplomatic channels?
CHAKOTAY: Neelix is meeting with a group of Norcadian officials.
JANEWAY: Well, let's hope he gets their cooperation.
CHAKOTAY: When can we expect you back?
JANEWAY (screen): I'm at the outer rim of the Pendari system. At best, I'm forty eight hours away.
CHAKOTAY: Sorry to cut your vacation short.
JANEWAY (screen): That's okay, Commander. Keep me informed. Janeway out.

[Tsunkatse living quarters]
SEVEN: Stay away from me.
HIROGEN: It's a dermal regenerator. The Pendari you fought injured you. Now, keep still. It's almost out of power.
SEVEN: I prefer that you use it to treat Commander Tuvok.
HIROGEN: I already have. He's sleeping.
SEVEN: Why are you helping us?
HIROGEN: I recognize fellow hunters when I see them.
SEVEN: I'm no hunter.
HIROGEN: I saw your match today. Your skills are impressive.
SEVEN: The Pendari would disagree.
HIROGEN: You almost defeated him. But at the last moment, you hesitated. You questioned your desire to destroy your prey.
SEVEN: I have no such desire.
HIROGEN: Don't you? I thought I saw it in your eyes. With the proper training, you could become a champion.
SEVEN: Until our ship comes to rescue us, my only goal is to survive.
HIROGEN: Do you know the difference between a survivor and a champion here? There isn't one.
PENK: I wanted to be the first to congratulate you.
SEVEN: I lost.
PENK: Exactly. There's a great deal of hostility toward the Borg in this sector. Whenever the Pendari landed a blow, our audience grew. We're getting tens of thousands of requests to see you fight again.
HIROGEN: She needs time to recuperate, to prepare for her next bout.
PENK: I agree. There's a Red Match scheduled for the day after tomorrow. The Pendari was supposed to compete, but I've entered you in his place. If three billion people paid to see you hurt, imagine how many will pay to see you die.
SEVEN: Survival may be more difficult than I imagined.
HIROGEN: You will win the match.
SEVEN: What makes you say that?
HIROGEN: I know your opponent. I know his weaknesses. I can train you to defeat him.
SEVEN: I told you. I will not kill anyone in that arena.
HIROGEN: Consider the alternative.
SEVEN: Teach me.
HIROGEN: You're letting your elbow fall, exposing your target.
SEVEN: You're mistaken. My arm is positioned properly. When executing the Tanyk Defense, the blocking elbow must remain parallel to the median sensor.
HIROGEN: Ah, The Book of Tsunkatse.
SEVEN: Commander Tuvok borrowed it from one of the other fighters.
HIROGEN: It is obvious you've studied it well.
SEVEN: I'm attempting a defense against any
SEVEN: That was not one of the thirty three sanctioned maneuvers.
HIROGEN: There must be thirty four.
SEVEN: I was unprepared for your attack.
HIROGEN: Is that what you're going to say to your opponent? Stop thinking like a drone. Sanctioned maneuvers, perfecting defenses. You cannot assimilate Tsunkatse from a book. You must live it, feel it, in here. Your movements must become instinct. An attack can come at any time from any direction. You must learn to improvise.
SEVEN: Like this?
SEVEN: I've observed you often favor your left side.
HIROGEN: Very perceptive. It's a wound I sustained in one of my first matches. After nineteen years, it still hasn't healed properly.
SEVEN: You've been here a long time.
HIROGEN: I was taken during my son's first hunt. He was so proud to be with his father, watching every movement I made, imitating my gestures. But instead of bringing home his first trophy, he saw his father become someone else's prey.
SEVEN: Do you know what happened to him?
HIROGEN: I never saw him again. All Penk would say was that the boy was too small for competition.
SEVEN: Perhaps he managed to return home.
HIROGEN: You let down your defenses. Why?
SEVEN: I was
HIROGEN: What? Feeling sorry for me and My tragic past?
SEVEN: Yes.
HIROGEN: You must never sympathize with your prey. Unless you accept that, you will die. We'll continue.

[Transporter room]
CHAKOTAY: How did it go?
NEELIX: Oh, the Norcadians were shocked to learn that off-worlders might be participating against their will.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: The Ambassador promised to begin an immediate investigation.
CHAKOTAY: You don't sound too convinced.
NEELIX: I'm not. I spoke to one of the Pendari delegates. According to him, a huge percentage of the planet's revenue is derived from Tsunkatse. Nobody wants to do anything that might interfere with the game.
CHAKOTAY: So they turn a blind eye to the recruitment tactics.
NEELIX: We're not going to get any help through official channels. It's hard to believe, a civilization whose favorite pastime is cheering while innocent people fight each other.

[Turbolift]
CHAKOTAY: If Seven and Tuvok hadn't been abducted, we might still be cheering too.

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: What have you got?
TORRES: Well, one of the reasons we were having trouble isolating the source of the transmissions was because they never seem to be coming from the same place twice. At first we thought the matches were being held in various locations.
KIM: But when we connected the dots, we realized that the pattern conformed to a flight path.
TORRES: One that spanned the entire sector.
CHAKOTAY: They're transmitting the fights from a ship.
NEELIX: Like a traveling carnival.
KIM: Oh, this is no carnival. Five million metric tons, reinforced hull plating protected by covariant shielding. Neutronic weaponry.
TORRES: It's way out of our weight class.
CHAKOTAY: The bigger they come, Lieutenant. Transmit these coordinates to the Captain. Tell her we could use a hand.

[Tsunkatse living quarters]
HIROGEN: Excellent. When your opponent enters the arena, what do you see?
SEVEN: My prey.
HIROGEN: And what do you do to your prey?
SEVEN: Hunt it down and kill it.
HIROGEN: Go rest before your match.
SEVEN: Thank you.
HIROGEN: Thank me by winning.
SEVEN: Penk's guards are making their inspection rounds. Progress?
TUVOK: Both the dampening field and the shielding of this vessel are tetryon-based, but without access to the control interface I can't disable either. Your training?
SEVEN: Complete.
TUVOK: Are you adequately prepared?
SEVEN: The Hirogen is an efficient instructor. He believes I'll win.
TUVOK: That troubles you?
SEVEN: The idea of killing someone for the entertainment of others is detestable.
TUVOK: Is the idea of losing your own life for the entertainment of others more palatable? As a drone, you took many lives.
SEVEN: I was acting as part of the Collective.
TUVOK: You're worried you won't have the strength to accomplish the task on your own.
SEVEN: I'm worried that I will.
PENK: It's time.
TUVOK: Do whatever it takes to survive.

[Tsunkatse combat pit]
SEVEN: You knew.
HIROGEN: Yes.
SEVEN: Training me was a deception. You wished to familiarize yourself with my weaknesses.
HIROGEN: I was helping you to overcome them.
SEVEN: Why?
HIROGEN: Nineteen years is a long time. I've grown tired.
SEVEN: You wish to be killed in the arena?
HIROGEN: I want a death my son would be proud of.
SEVEN: I won't be the one to provide it.
HIROGEN: Then I'll be forced to kill you.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Approaching the vessel.
CHAKOTAY: Take us out of warp. Raise shields and charge weapons. Any sign of Tuvok and Seven?
KIM: Our sensors can't penetrate their shields.
CHAKOTAY: Hail them.
PENK (screen): This is not a convenient time.
CHAKOTAY: I'm Commander Chakotay of the Starship Voyager. You're holding two of my people.
PENK (screen): You'll have to be more specific.
CHAKOTAY: Commander Tuvok and Seven of Nine. Return them. Now.
PENK (screen): The Borg drone and her friend. I'm afraid she's occupied at the moment.
CHAKOTAY: You have thirty seconds before I open fire.
PENK: A fighter. I respect that. But you're no match for me.

[Tsunkatse combat pit]
SEVEN: We can still find another way out of this.
HIROGEN: There is no other way. You're still dropping your elbow.
HIROGEN: Make a choice. Hunter or Prey? Hunter or Prey?

[Bridge]
TORRES: Direct hit to their aft shield generators.
KIM: Still no sign of Seven, but I've got a lock on Tuvok.
CHAKOTAY: Beam him to Sickbay. Keep targeting those generators.
KIM: Transport complete.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Tuvok.
TUVOK (voiceover): Go ahead, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Do you know Seven's status?

[Sickbay]
TUVOK: She's being forced to fight to the death. I believe they're on the uppermost deck.

[Bridge]
KIM: That section's protected by multiphasic force fields. I can't penetrate them.
TORRES: Shields down to forty percent. Thirty two percent.

[Tsunkatse combat pit]
HIROGEN: You're getting weak. I should have found worthier prey.
HIROGEN: You're imperfect.
HIROGEN: Is that the best you can do?

[Bridge]
TORRES: Shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive maneuvers. Harry?
KIM: Still can't get a lock.
PARIS: Should I get us out of here before they knock out our propulsion?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. If we can't beam her out, maybe we can shut down the transmission.
PARIS: If nobody's watching, then why continue the fight?
CHAKOTAY: Start targeting their signal generators.
KIM: Hull breach on deck eleven.
CHAKOTAY: Seal it.
TORRES: We've lost weapons.
PARIS: Another vessel is approaching.
TORRES: Great. Now they're bringing in reinforcements?
PARIS: No, this one's on our side. It's the Delta Flyer.

[Delta Flyer]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Good to see you, Captain.
JANEWAY: Nothing like getting back to work after a long vacation.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We need you to target their signal generators.
JANEWAY: Understood.

[Tsunkatse combat pit]
PENK: We've lost more than half our audience. Reroute power to transmitters five and six.

[Bridge]
KIM: They've reduced power to their forcefields. I've got two lifesigns in there. Seven and a Hirogen but I can't get an individual lock.
CHAKOTAY: Transport them both if you have to. Tom.
PARIS: Aye, sir.

[Tsunkatse combat pit]
CROWD: Tsunkat! Tsunkat! Tsunkat!
HIROGEN: Never let your prey suffer. Kill it.

[Transporter room]
PARIS: Seven, stand away.
SEVEN: It's all right. This fight is over.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 53529.4. We've resumed course for the Alpha quadrant and initiated repairs. I can't say I'm sorry to see this shore leave come to an end.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: We located an Hirogen hunting party three light years away. They've agreed to rendezvous with us.
HIROGEN: I'm grateful.
SEVEN: Would you excuse us?
EMH: Very well. But if you should need anything, an analgesic, a phaser rifle, don't hesitate to ask.
SEVEN: I apologize for the Doctor. He's very protective of me.
HIROGEN: He doesn't realize how well you defend yourself.
HIROGEN: A trophy.
SEVEN: What will do you now, search for new prey?
HIROGEN: No. This time I will be searching for my son.
SEVEN: If he is as clever as his father, he may be difficult to locate.
HIROGEN: I've been wondering. Would you have killed me?
SEVEN: I don't know.
HIROGEN: Fortunately, you were right. There was another way out.

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: I thought you might require assistance.
SEVEN: Thank you.
TUVOK: I realize we share an affinity for silences, but in this instance I feel compelled to speak. If you hadn't offered to take my place in the arena, it's likely I would have been killed.
SEVEN: I made the logical choice, as you would have.
TUVOK: Still, I owe you a debt of gratitude.
SEVEN: Assisting me with these recalibrations will be sufficient thanks.
TUVOK: Have you fully recovered?
SEVEN: I'm experiencing minor pain beneath my occipital implant. The Doctor believes it is temporary.
TUVOK: I wasn't referring to your physical condition.
SEVEN: When the Hirogen referred to me as weak, he was correct.
TUVOK: But you overpowered him.
SEVEN: Because I lost control.
TUVOK: Given the circumstances, your behavior was understandable.
SEVEN: I've spent the last three years struggling to regain my humanity. I'm afraid I may have lost it again in that arena.
TUVOK: You're experiencing difficult emotions.
SEVEN: Guilt, shame, remorse.
TUVOK: Then you haven't lost your humanity. You have reaffirmed it.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
NEELIX: Heart, heart, heart. Just one more heart.
PARIS: You might as well be showing us your hand, Neelix. This is a game of strategy, deception.
KIM: Never let the opponents know your hand.
NEELIX: Right.
NEELIX: Bah.
CHAKOTAY: Ten.
KIM: I see your ten, and raise you twenty.
PARIS: Neelix?
NEELIX: I'm thinking. Twenty. Another twenty. Ha.
KIM: If I didn't know any better, I'd say we're being hustled.
NEELIX: Ensign?
KIM: Oh, I'm not buying the innocent Talaxian routine.
NEELIX: I don't know what you're talking about. I've, I've, this is the first time I've played. What is it called?
ALL: Poker.
PARIS: Look, why don't we make things a little more interesting. Forget the chips. Let's bet on tomorrow's work detail, all right? Whoever wins this hand gets the morning off.
CHAKOTAY: I'm in.
KIM: I'm in.
NEELIX: Sounds good to me.
CHAKOTAY: What have you got?
KIM: Two pair.
NEELIX: Does that beat a flush?
KIM: I knew you were bluffing.
CHAKOTAY: That beats me. Tom?
CHAKOTAY: Battle stations!
PARIS: And I had a full house.
PARIS: I can't shake them.
CHAKOTAY: Return fire.
NEELIX: Why didn't our sensors detect them?
KIM: Looks like they used a dispersal field to mask their approach.
CHAKOTAY: Warp drive?
PARIS: No luck. Too much damage to the plasma injectors.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, get down there and see what you can do.
NEELIX: Shields down eighteen percent.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, status?

[Delta Flyer - Jefferies tube]
KIM: I need time to clear the injectors.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
NEELIX: Sir, the Cube's power output is fluctuating.
CHAKOTAY: Then we're still in the game. Bring us about. Target their propulsion matrix.
NEELIX: We've lost phasers.
CHAKOTAY: Arm photon torpedoes. Fire when ready.
NEELIX: We knocked out their main propulsion system.
CHAKOTAY: Good. Now get us out of here, Tom.
PARIS: They've got us in a tractor beam
CHAKOTAY: Harry!

[Delta Flyer - Jefferies tube]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We need warp power, now!
KIM: We lost two more relays. I can't!

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
CHAKOTAY: Harry? Harry!
PARIS: Engines are offline.
BORG (voiceover): We are the Borg. Your biological and technological distinctiveness will be added to our own. Resistance is futile.

[Neelix's nightmare]
BORG-CHAKOTAY: Neelix.

[Assimilation chamber]
CHAKOTAY: Neelix!
NEELIX: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: It's all right. You were unconscious, but I don't think you're injured.
NEELIX: I was dreaming you'd been assimilated.
CHAKOTAY: Your subconscious was jumping the gun, but not by much. From the look of this room, I'd say we're in an assimilation chamber.
PARIS: Where's Harry?
CHAKOTAY: He's not here.
PARIS: Well, we've got to find him.
CHAKOTAY: We need to get our bearings first. Figure out what's going on.
PARIS: We're in a Borg Cube and Harry's missing. That's what's going on.
NEELIX: Sir.
CHAKOTAY: Nobody we know.
PARIS: Some kind of botched assimilation?
CHAKOTAY: From the looks of it.
PARIS: What are they waiting for? They've got three more potential drones here.
CHAKOTAY: Stay calm.
PARIS: Calm? We're in a chamber of horrors or haven't you noticed?
CHAKOTAY: We're not drones yet. If we keep our heads, maybe we can find a way out. There's a forcefield around this room. Let's try to disable it.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Their ion trail ends directly ahead.
TORRES: I'm detecting another vessel, bearing three zero, mark one one two. It's a Borg Cube.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Alter course to intercept. Adjust shields to rotating frequencies. Have they detected us?
TUVOK: Unclear. The vessel's holding position.
JANEWAY: As soon as we're within sensor range, start scanning for the away team. On screen.
SEVEN: Their propulsion system is offline. The damage is not that severe. The drones should've repaired it by now.
JANEWAY: Lucky for us they didn't, or we'd never have caught up with them. Any sign of our people?
TORRES: Not yet.
TUVOK: They are targeting our warp core. Shields are holding.
JANEWAY: Return fire. Aim for their weapons array.
TORRES: Now they're going after our impulse engines. That one was meant for our sensors. They can't seem to make up their minds.
SEVEN: Their attack strategy is erratic, inefficient.
TUVOK: And finished. We've disabled their weapons.
TORRES: That was too easy.
JANEWAY: Maybe they're in worse shape than we thought.
TUVOK: I'm picking up non-Borg life signs. One of them is definitely Talaxian. It looks as though they haven't been assimilated yet.
JANEWAY: Try to get a transporter lock.
TORRES: Their shields are interfering.
JANEWAY: Target their shield generator and fire.
SEVEN: Captain, I believe I can explain the unusual behavior of these Borg. There should be thousands of drones manning the vessel, but I'm picking up only five signatures.
BORG (voiceover): We are the Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
TORRES: It doesn't sound like they've lost their confidence.
TUVOK: Their shield generators are too deep inside the vessel. Our weapons can't reach them.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. Borg vessel, this is the starship Voyager. You're holding our crewmen. We're willing to cease firing if you return them.
BORG (voiceover): Negotiation is irrelevant. You will be assimilated.
JANEWAY: Not today, and not by you. Agree, or I'll resume firing.
TUVOK: They are scanning us.
BORG (voiceover): We will return your crew members in exchange for specific technology.
TORRES: Talk about unusual behavior. The Borg negotiating?
JANEWAY: What technology?
BORG (voiceover): Your navigational deflector. Disengage it from your secondary hull.
JANEWAY: Mute audio.
TUVOK: If we surrender our deflector, we'll be dead in space. We won't be able to go to warp.
JANEWAY: What would they want with it?
SEVEN: When their communications array was damaged, it severed their link to the Collective. They intend to adapt our deflector to regain it.
JANEWAY: And call for reinforcements? That's the last thing we need. We'll have to stall them until we can find another way out of this.
JANEWAY: I'll consider the exchange, but first I want to be certain my crewmen are unharmed and alive.
BORG (voiceover): You have scanned our vessel.
JANEWAY: Our scans were inconclusive. We want to see them for ourselves.
BORG (voiceover): You may transport one individual.
JANEWAY: Seven.

[Cube - corridor]
BORG (voiceover): Proceed to grid six three, sub-junction zero one.

[Maturation area]
BORG (voiceover): State your designation.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine. These drones have not fully matured. Where are the others?
BORG (voiceover): There are no others. The drones aboard this vessel were
LEADER: Deactivated. We are the Borg. Seven of Nine. A Borg designation.
MEZOTI: She's like us.
ICHEB: Not like us. She's damaged. Her infrastructure has been removed.
MEZOTI: We could fix her.
ICHEB: You will add to our perfection.
SEVEN: You are neonatal drones. You should still be in maturation chambers.
LEADER: We've matured long enough.
SEVEN: Doubtful. Your thoracic nodes haven't formed yet. You're incomplete. You'll continue to malfunction. You must return to your maturation chambers. Comply.
LEADER: Don't listen to her.
ICHEB: We tried to go back in. The chambers were offline.
SEVEN: What happened to the adult drones?
AZAN: We don't know.
LEADER: Irrelevant. Don't tell her anything.
LEADER: That wasn't the agreement.
SEVEN: I've modified the agreement. I didn't realize I'd be dealing with children. Your behavior is erratic. I can't be certain that you
LEADER: No modifications. We show you the hostages, you give us the deflector. Comply. Comply!
SEVEN: Take me to them.
LEADER: If she tries to resist, assimilate her.

[Cube - corridor]
SEVEN: Do you have a designation?
ICHEB: Second.
SEVEN: You were the second to emerge from the chambers.
ICHEB: No, the first. I could not establish order. I became Second and he became First.
MEZOTI: We're a Collective.
SEVEN: A collective of five on a vessel normally run by five thousand. What makes you think you'll survive?
ICHEB: When we re-establish our link with the Borg, they will come for us.

[Assimilation chamber]
PARIS: Commander, we've got company.
SEVEN: I wish to see if they're injured.
CHAKOTAY: Seven?
SEVEN: Don't let their appearance fool you. They are in control of this vessel and all of its armaments. Are you injured?
CHAKOTAY: Nothing serious. A previous tenant.
ICHEB: We were trying to perfect our assimilation techniques.
SEVEN: You failed.
MEZOTI: One of these captives was attempting to disconnect the security field.
PARIS: Actually, I was just trying to
SEVEN: That was unnecessary.
ICHEB: He is not permanently damaged.
MEZOTI: He learnt his lesson.
SEVEN: The Borg are prepared to negotiate for your release. I will return for you.
CHAKOTAY: Give my regards to Harry.

[Cube - corridor]
ICHEB: The deflector array.
SEVEN: I'm not authorized to give you technology. I must report back to Captain Janeway.
ICHEB: Agreed.
SEVEN: I also need to take an adult drone and a data node back to Voyager for analysis.
MEZOTI: Why?
SEVEN: Something happened on this vessel that none of us understand. If it happens again, it could endanger all of you.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: No sign of Harry yet, but there are parts of the cube that we still can't scan.
TUVOK: Could the drones be holding him in another location?
JANEWAY: Unlikely. Seven said they didn't seem to be aware of his presence.
TUVOK: If he ejected in an escape pod, we would have detected his beacon by now.
JANEWAY: Try to activate his comm. badge. Match the carrier wave to a Borg interlink frequency. They shouldn't detect it.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: What have we learned from our friend here?
EMH: The bigger they come, the harder they fall. Behold the David that slew our Goliath.
JANEWAY: A pathogen.
EMH: A space-borne virus that adapted to Borg physiology. It's inert now, but in its virulent state it attacked the drones and killed them.
TUVOK: Why weren't the juveniles infected?
SEVEN: The maturation chamber is designed to protect developing drones. Malfunctions caused by the deaths of the adults led several of the chambers to open prematurely.
TUVOK: Does this pathogen only target the Borg?
EMH: The Borg, and other cybernetic organisms it encounters. You're not thinking of using it as a biological weapon?
TUVOK: If we can revive the pathogen and reintroduce it, we could neutralize the drones without harming the away team.
EMH: Neutralize? You mean murder, don't you? Captain, they're children.
TUVOK: Need I remind you that these children have committed murder themselves in their futile attempts to assimilate others.
JANEWAY: Seven, tell me something. You saw them, talked to them. Do you think they'll kill the hostages if we don't give them what they want?
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: I want that pathogen as an option, Doctor, but I won't consider using it until I've seen these drones for myself. Think you can arrange that? Then you're with me.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
KIM: Computer, identify the source of this comm. signal.
COMPUTER: Starship Voyager.
KIM: I need to respond on the same carrier wave.
COMPUTER: That procedure will require significant modifications.
KIM: Well, don't worry. I'm way ahead of you.

[Maturation area]
LEADER: Why are you here?
JANEWAY: I wanted to make a new proposal.
LEADER: We've already negotiated. You've seen the hostages. Now give us the deflector as agreed.
JANEWAY: Maybe it's hard for you to accept, but you don't have to rejoin the Hive. Our Doctor can remove your implants. You can come with us. You were individuals yourselves not long ago. Children with families. You were abducted and assimilated. I recognize your species. You're Brenari, and you're Norcadian. Do you remember your world?
MEZOTI: A theta class planetoid. population two and sixty million. Binary suns.
JANEWAY: And what did it look like when those suns set each night? Can you remember that?
LEADER: Irrelevant! The deflector, now.
JANEWAY: We need more time. That deflector array is essential to our
LEADER: No! Give it to us.
JANEWAY: Or what? You'll assimilate me? That won't solve your problem. I can't give you Voyager's deflector, but maybe we can repair your technology.
LEADER: Clarify.
JANEWAY: Seven knows a good deal about Borg systems.
LEADER: You have two hours.
SEVEN: I don't know the extent of the damage. It could take longer.
LEADER: Two hours or your hostages die. Don't come back here, Captain.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I bought us another two hours. The pathogen?
TUVOK: It should be ready by then.
TORRES: Did you see the away team?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid not, but Seven assured me our people haven't been harmed.
TORRES: I can't believe we're negotiating with adolescent drones.
JANEWAY: They're not exactly drones. Mature Borg are predictable. They'll ignore you or assimilate you. But these juveniles, they're unstable.
TUVOK: They are contemptuous of authority, convinced that they are superior. Typical adolescent behavior for any species.
TORRES: It's a transmission, from the Cube.
JANEWAY: Seven?
TORRES: No. It's Harry. I'm clearing it up now.
KIM (voiceover): Delta Flyer to Voyager, respond.
JANEWAY: We're receiving you, Ensign. Where are you?

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
KIM: Still in the Flyer. It's locked up in some kind of hanger bay, along with two alien ships.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I've isolated his coordinates.
JANEWAY: How close is he to their shield generator?
TUVOK: Roughly eight hundred meters.
JANEWAY: Harry, are there any plasma charges aboard the Flyer?
KIM (voiceover): Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: In that case, how do you feel about going for a little walk?

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
KIM: I could use the exercise.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Tuvok will guide you to the shield generator. If you destroy it, you won't have to make the trip back.
KIM: Understood.

[Cube - computer access station]
ICHEB: I have the technology you've requested.
SEVEN: Thank you.
ICHEB: You were a drone for eighteen years.
SEVEN: Correct.
ICHEB: I accessed your data file.
SEVEN: Why?
ICHEB: I thought it might be relevant.
SEVEN: What else did you learn?
ICHEB: You were assimilated as a juvenile, like us.
SEVEN: My parents were scientists studying the Borg. They took me with them. My childhood was short.
ICHEB: Childhood?
SEVEN: The years between birth and physical maturity, when humanoids adapt to their roles as individuals. Perhaps you have memory of yours.
ICHEB: I don't know.
SEVEN: What about your parents? Do you remember them?
ICHEB: No. No memories.
SEVEN: Your sub-vocal processor is malfunctioning. I can repair it for you. It's a slight adjustment. It won't be painful.
ICHEB: The First told me my malfunction could not be repaired until we reconnected with the Collective.
ICHEB: This color. My mother's hair was this color.
LEADER: I thought we agreed, no irrelevant discussions. What is the punishment for disobeying the protocols?
ICHEB: Deactivation.
SEVEN: I engaged him in this discussion.
LEADER: Return to your station.

[Ready room]
SEVEN: I found some unsettling information. I examined their communication records. The Collective did receive the drones' initial distress call.
JANEWAY: How long before they arrive?
SEVEN: A vessel was not dispatched. The Collective declared the neonatal drones irrelevant and severed their link to the Hive permanently.
JANEWAY: They see them as damaged, unworthy of re-assimilation.
SEVEN: Precisely.
JANEWAY: Are the drones aware of this?
SEVEN: No. They don't have the ability to decrypt the message.
JANEWAY: Once they learn they've been rejected by the Hive, they won't need our deflector. They might be willing to release the hostages.
SEVEN: Normally when drones learn they're irrelevant, they deactivate themselves. But these neonatal drones are unpredictable. They may not adhere to Borg protocols.
JANEWAY: There is another option. We could invite them to Voyager. When they realize they have no place else to go
SEVEN: If you're suggesting transforming them into individuals, that would be extremely difficult.
JANEWAY: You turned out pretty well, Seven.
SEVEN: That's because I was prepared before you encountered me.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
SEVEN: When I was first captured by the Borg, I was young and frightened. I watched my parents assimilated. Then I was placed in a maturation chamber, and the Hive mind began to restructure my synaptic pathways, purge my individuality. When I emerged five years later, the turmoil of my forced assimilation had been replaced with order. You may not be aware of this, Captain, but that order continues to be a source of strength for me. I could not have regained my humanity without it.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your insights. But just because they didn't have the benefit of your Borg upbringing doesn't mean we're going to turn our backs on them. There has to be another way.
SEVEN: Not all drones can be saved, Captain.
JANEWAY: Continue the repairs aboard the Borg Cube. We'll hold onto this information for now.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: They do have one thing going for them. You. If there's anyone who can reach them, it's you.

[Astrometrics lab]
KIM (voiceover): Three of hearts on a transwarp conduit.
TUVOK: Ensign?

[Cube - corridor]
KIM: King of clubs on a power coupling. I'm marking my route with playing cards in case I have to come back the same way.
TUVOK (voiceover): You shouldn't distract yourself, Mister Kim.
KIM: I need a little distraction. This hike is bringing up some bad memories.

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: An earlier visit to a Borg Cube?
KIM (voiceover): No, a haunted house my parents took me to when I was six.
TUVOK: Borg vessels may be forbidding, but they are not haunted.

[Cube - junction]
KIM: Tuvok?
TUVOK (voiceover): Turn left, Ensign.
KIM: Nine of diamonds on a data node.

[Maturation area]
SEVEN: The resonance field collapsed. It'll take an hour to reinitialize.
LEADER: These delays are intentional.
SEVEN: I'm working as efficiently as I can. Examine my work for yourself if you have doubts.
LEADER: This data's flawed.
SEVEN: More likely it's your understanding of quadric field theory that's flawed.
LEADER: Ignore her. She's trying to divide us.
SEVEN: They rely on you, yet you lack the skills necessary to ensure their survival.
LEADER: We've managed so far. We're Borg. You've forgotten what that means.
SEVEN: The unity of the Collective, common goals, the quest for perfection. I have not forgotten. But you don't need to remain drones to experience those things. Come back with me to Voyager.
LEADER: Thirty eight minutes. You're wasting time.
ICHEB: Another maturation chamber is malfunctioning.
SEVEN: Its autonomic nervous system is failing.
LEADER: It's Borg. It will adapt.
MEZOTI: It's not adapting. Let Seven help.
SEVEN: We can modulate the stasis field to stabilize its functions, at least temporarily. Assist me. The field is degrading. We need to transport it into an incubation pod. Quickly.
MEZOTI: Why is it doing that?
SEVEN: Its respiratory system is impaired, and this incubation pod is malfunctioning. We must transport this infant to Voyager.
LEADER: No. The drone is part of our Collective.
ICHEB: Not if it dies.

[Cube - corridor]
KIM: Tetryon levels are rising. I'm getting closer.
TUVOK (voiceover): The shield generator should be directly ahead.
KIM: I see it. The first charge is in place. Tuvok? Hello?
MEZOTI: You left these.
MEZOTI: I like her. She looks like Seven of Nine.
KIM: Is Seven your friend? You know, she's my friend, too. Maybe someday, we
MEZOTI: Your weapon won't work here. Dampening field.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: How long has it been since you lost contact?
TUVOK: Four or five minutes.
JANEWAY: His bio-signs?
EMH (voiceover): Doctor to the Captain. Please report to Sickbay immediately.
JANEWAY: On my way. Keep looking for him.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: What's the emergency?
EMH: I thought you should see for yourself. Somebody left a bundle on our doorstep. I turned around and there she was, lying on a bio-bed.
JANEWAY: Seven must have beamed her here.
EMH: Good thing, too. A few more minutes and I wouldn't have been able to do anything for her. It's hard to believe she could grow up to be a drone.
EMH: Hold her for a moment while I take some readings. Oh, I guess she just wanted to be held. Oh. The pathogen. I finished synthesizing it.
JANEWAY: Start working with Tuvok on a way to deploy the virus.
EMH: Captain, you don't seriously plan to use it?
JANEWAY: If I have to. Let's just hope your brothers and sisters don't force my hand.

[Maturation area]
SEVEN: You complain of delays then you interrupt my work.
LEADER: Can you identify this?
SEVEN: It's a plasma charge.
LEADER: You tried to deceive us.
LEADER: Nanoprobes were injected into his bloodstream. He won't survive without medical attention. Call your Captain. Tell her to give us the deflector.
SEVEN: That won't be necessary. I only need a few more minutes to repair the
LEADER: No more delays. No more deceptions. The deflector. Resistance is futile.

[Bridge]
LEADER (screen): Comply.
JANEWAY: Return Harry Kim, then we'll talk.
LEADER (screen): We've talked enough. Your requests are irrelevant. Comply or we'll assimilate the others.
JANEWAY: It'll take us at least an hour to dismantle the deflector and transfer the components.
LEADER (screen): Now.
JANEWAY: I can't give it to you now. It's complex technology that's part of our ship. We can't simply remove it. And no amount of threats from you is going to change that.
TUVOK: They've locked a tractor beam onto the deflector.
TORRES: They're trying to tear it off. Hull stress is increasing. Breaches on decks ten and eleven.
JANEWAY: Increase shield strength and randomize the harmonics.
TUVOK: They're adapting.

[Maturation area]
SEVEN: Even with Voyager's deflector, your efforts to return to the Hive will fail.
LEADER: They'll come for us.
SEVEN: No, they won't. The Borg received your message but chose to ignore it. They consider you irrelevant.
MEZOTI: Irrelevant?
ICHEB: We are damaged. They don't want us.
LEADER: Ignore her. It's another lie.
SEVEN: Their reply is in data grid four two six. Use decryption protocol theta three.
LEADER: Return to your station. It's another deception. She's manipulating us.
ICHEB: The transmission is authentic.
LEADER: It's a mistake.
SEVEN: The Collective does not tolerate imperfection.
LEADER: Then we'll assimilate more species. Prove we're worthy.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Hull stress is reaching critical levels.
JANEWAY: Reroute all emergency power to structural integrity.
TORRES: That'll buy us another minute at most.
TUVOK: Captain, I have found a fluctuation in their shield grid near a plasma duct. It's too intermittent to beam out the hostages, but we could use it to deploy the pathogen. Captain.
JANEWAY: Not yet.
TUVOK: There is no alternative.
JANEWAY: There's always an alternative. We just need to find it. Their tractor beam draws power from the same grid as their shield matrix. If we use the deflector to send a feedback pulse along the beam, it could disrupt their shields. Do it.
TORRES: Rerouting warp plasma. If this doesn't work it'll do more damage to us than the Cube.
JANEWAY: It'll work. Prepare to fire.

[Maturation area]
SEVEN: You have no future with the Borg. But you do with Voyager. A chance to reclaim your real lives.
LEADER: What do you know about real lives?
SEVEN: Does he speak for all of you? You should make your decisions yourself, as individuals.
ICHEB: They are sending a feedback pulse through our tractor beam. It's overloading our shield matrix.
LEADER: Adapt!

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Their tractor beam is fluctuating. Their shields are dropping.
TORRES: I've got a partial lock on the away team. Boosting the confinement beam. I've got three of them.
TUVOK: Confirmed. Chakotay, Paris and Neelix are in Transporter room two.
JANEWAY: What about Seven and Harry?
TORRES: They must be in a section that's still shielded.
JANEWAY: Amplify the feedback pulse.

[Maturation area]
MEZOTI: The other captives are gone.
ICHEB: The shields around this chamber are failing. Instructions.
SEVEN: Lower your shields. Lower the shields!
LEADER: No!
ICHEB: Leave her alone.
LEADER: Get back to your station. Do what I say.
ICHEB: What you say? I thought we were a Collective.
MEZOTI: One mind, one voice.
LEADER: I protected you. Gave you order.
ICHEB: Your order. Your rules.
LEADER: Their feedback pulse is overloading the induction grids.
SEVEN: This vessel will be destroyed. We must evacuate.
LEADER: No! Assist me.
SEVEN: You're damaged. Lie still.
LEADER: We have to resist. The Collective will come for us.
SEVEN: His cortical implants are depolarizing. I can't help him.
MEZOTI: We'll find a new home. You'll see.
LEADER: We are Borg.
SEVEN: Yes. We are Borg.
SEVEN: Lower the shields.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Harry's recovering in Sickbay, and the rest of the away team is safe and sound. As for the drones, the Doctor's removed most of their implants, leaving us with four very troubled children.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: We've sent out calls to any Brenari and Norcadian ships that might be in the vicinity, but we haven't gotten any responses so far, and we're still trying to figure out where the other two came from. It may take a while.
SEVEN: They could use the time. They have a great deal to learn.
JANEWAY: It might help if they had someone around who knew what they're up against.
SEVEN: I've never been responsible for children. Mister Neelix would be a wiser choice.
JANEWAY: From what I've seen, you're the one they've established a bond with. They'll be looking to you for guidance.
SEVEN: Perhaps I could help them avoid some of the obstacles I've encountered.

[Cargo Bay two]
MEZOTI: Do we have to regenerate now?
SEVEN: Yes, but first.
SEVEN: I was able to salvage your assimilation profiles. They include your names and some limited biographical data.
ICHEB: Icheb. My name was Icheb.
SEVEN: Your name is Icheb.
ICHEB: I remember now. It was my father's second name.
MEZOTI: My designation is Mezoti. It's a pretty name.
SEVEN: Yes it is, and it's all yours. Azan and Rebi. I'll tell you more about them tomorrow.
SEVEN: Computer. Decrease ambient lighting by sixty percent. Good night. Sweet dreams.

[Fair Haven - street]
PARIS: Get out of the way! Sorry.
SEAMUS: Tommy-me-boy, you're a little fast there.
SEAMUS: Did you hurt yourself, Tommy boy?
PARIS: I think I zigged when I should have zagged.
SEAMUS: Well, maybe you ought to stick to a horse and carriage. Still, she's a beauty. The world must be treating you well to afford such a thing.
PARIS: Er, just dipping into my inheritance.
SEAMUS: Oh, come into some money, did you? So who's passed on?
PARIS: Er, my grandfather on my mother's side. An aristocrat, God rest his soul.
SEAMUS: Sounds like he was a fine man. I'd drink a toast to him, if I had a shilling to me name.
PARIS: Here. It's on me.
SEAMUS: It'll take three pints to do a proper job, Tommy boy, and this isn't even enough for two.
PARIS: There, that's all I've got.
SEAMUS: You're a generous man. Care to join me at Sullivan's?
PARIS: Oh, I wish I could, but I'm on my way to Castle O'Dell.
SEAMUS: Night's coming. And they say when the sun goes down the Queen of the Faerie folk reclaims the castle.
PARIS: I'll give her your regards.
SEAMUS: Don't say I didn't warn you.
PARIS: Computer, replace damaged tire.
SEAMUS: Saints preserve us.

[Sullivan's]
SEAMUS: I thought I would die from the shock of it.
MICHAEL: Now, Seamus, you're not a great one for telling things the way they were.
SEAMUS: I'll admit I've been known to add a little color to stories from time to time to liven things up. But with God as my witness, I saw Tom Paris using unnatural powers to fix that wheel of his.
MICHAEL: Tommy boy practicing unholy magic. Next thing you'll be telling me is, you want to pay for your own drinks.
SEAMUS: Make fun if you like, but he was heading up to Castle O'Dell only an hour before dark.
FITZGERALD: Oh, leave it alone, Seamus. Can't one day go by without you making an ass of yourself?
MILO: But that Tom Paris is an odd one. Coming and going through town as if he built the place.
SEAMUS: That's right. And where does he go?
MILO: Oh, he's a shifty one. And for that matter, so are his friends.
MICHAEL: If you're talking about Katie O'Clare, you'd better watch your mouth.
MILO: Well, you know what they say, Sullivan. Birds of a feather.
MICHAEL: They also say superstition is the religion of fools.
SEAMUS: Killmannin, 1846.
VILLAGER: What?
SEAMUS: Old Patsy down in County Meath spoke of a band of spirit folk who came to Killmannin in '46.
MICHAEL: Killmannin. Did you ever hear of it, Doc?
FITZGERALD: No, this is the first.
MILO: Ah, you won't find it on any map. Not any more.
SEAMUS: It was a town mot much different than Fair Haven. That is, until this group of strangers arrived. The townsfolk welcomed them with open arms. After all, a stranger is just a friend you haven't met yet. But they regretted their hospitality soon enough.
MILO: The cows stopped giving milk. The potatoes grew rotten in the ground.
SEAMUS: Then people started to go missing.
FITZGERALD: Oh, go on.
SEAMUS: It's true.
MICHAEL: What happened to them?
MILO: They were taken to the Other World.
SEAMUS: When winter came, and the nights grew longer, the entire town vanished. Every post, every nail, poof, into thin air, never to be seen again.
FITZGERALD: Are you suggesting that Fair Haven's going to go the way of Killmannin, just because we have a few new folks in town?
SEAMUS: I'm suggesting you keep an eye on Tom Paris and his cohorts. Not to mention that lady friend of yours.
MICHAEL: So Katie's some kind of goblin now, is that it?
SEAMUS: She's certainly cast a spell on you.
MILO: Well, if you ask me
MAN: Shush.
MICHAEL: Katie.
JANEWAY: Am I interrupting?
MICHAEL: Aw, just some nonsense. Seamus is up to his old tricks again.
MAGGIE: Good day to you, Katie.
MICHAEL: Oh, it's good to see you. What'll it be?
JANEWAY: The usual, please.
MICHAEL: Well, one cup of tea coming right up. Did you snatch any children on the way into town, Katie?
JANEWAY: What?
MICHAEL: Never mind. I missed your smile. What have you been doing with yourself?
JANEWAY: Nothing terribly exciting. Just helping my aunt and uncle out on the farm. They're not as spry as they used to be. Although, they've got a goat that could argue Mossie Donegan's talking pig under the table.
MICHAEL: You'll have to bring him into the bar the next time you're up. We'll arrange a debate.
JANEWAY: I'll see that I do. I hear they opened a nickelodeon in Dooleen. I thought it might be nice to go to a show.
MICHAEL: I've got to tend the bar. I wish you'd let me know you were coming, I would have made arrangements.
JANEWAY: That's all right. We can go some other time.
MICHAEL: No, I mean, you've already made the trip. It'd be a shame if you had to leave.
JANEWAY: Well, I could be convinced to stay, if you'd be up to a game of Rings. Let's go.

[Mess hall]
KIM: Computer, one dozen Broadway lilies.
PARIS: Something tells me that's not lunch.
KIM: I already ate.
PARIS: Ah. Who are they for?
KIM: A friend.
PARIS: Oh, and this friend wouldn't happen to be a lovely Irish lass, now, would she?
KIM: Aren't you due on the bridge?
PARIS: Ah, you'd better watch yourself, Harry. These country girls aren't as simple as you think. Maggie O'Halloran could be a little more than you can handle.
KIM: Heard about your little traffic accident.
PARIS: That was a clutch malfunction. It wasn't my fault.
TORRES: If you ask me, that whole program is an accident waiting to happen. You've been running Fair Haven around the clock. Just yesterday, I had to replace three holo-emitters.
PARIS: I ran a full diagnostic this morning. Everything is fine.
TORRES: Whatever you say. But, when your quaint little seaside town starts to depolarize, don't come running to me.
KIM: If you'll excuse me, I'm late for a moonlight stroll.
PARIS: Are you sure you don't need a chaperone?
KIM: Not with your driving record.
PARIS: I think I know just what'll make his date just a little more interesting.
TORRES: Just don't blow out any more holo-emitters.

[Fair Haven - street at night]
MILO: What are we doing out here, Seamus? Skulking about in the dark, spying on folks.
SEAMUS: What's the matter, Milo? You got a case of the willies?
MILO: Well, what if you're right? What if this Tom Paris is some kind of demon? If we're caught, he'll cast a spell on us.
SEAMUS: Then stop your squawking, or he'll catch us for sure. Come on, man. He's getting away.
KIM: A captain is only as good as his crew.
MAGGIE: It must be lonely out there on the sea with only the stars to guide you.
KIM: Sometimes, during the night watch, with the timbers creaking and the dark water stretching out as far as the eye can see, you can believe you're the only man in the world.
MAGGIE: Maybe you should think about settling down on dry land.
KIM: Oh, believe me, I do. As often as I think of you.
MAGGIE: Can I ask you something, Harry?
KIM: Of course.
MAGGIE: Would you like to hold my hand?
KIM: If you promise to hold mine back.
SEAMUS: Look. He's got some sort of contraption in his hand.
MILO: Maybe we're going about this the wrong way. We should go down to Saint Mary's and tell Father Mulligan the whole story.
SEAMUS: He's not going to listen to talk of the supernatural.
MILO: Och, if you fill his collection box, he'll listen to anything.
SEAMUS: That's true.
KIM: I thought you were promised to Ray Euan.
MAGGIE: Not anymore. Can I ask you something else, Harry?
KIM: Please.
MAGGIE: Would you like to kiss me?
KIM: Is that a trick question?
MILO: Holy mother of God!
KIM: Tom! Don't you have anything better to do?
PARIS: Boy, she really turned on you.
KIM: Ha, ha, very funny. I could have been trampled.
PARIS: Relax, the holodeck safeties are on. There's nothing to worry about.
KIM: All right, all right. You've had your fun. Now change her back.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Paris and Kim. Report to the bridge.
PARIS: On our way.
KIM: Hey, what about Maggie?
PARIS: She'll be fine. Let her graze.
SEAMUS: Let her graze. Did you hear that?

[Saint Mary's - Sunday morning mass]
ALL: Amen.
EMH: Please be seated. I recently heard a tale of two farmers, who shall remain nameless for the sake of this sermon. It seems one broke the other's plow and refused to replace it. His come-uppance was served to him not by the hand of God, but by the other farmer, in the form of a clogged irrigation ditch. Now, do you think their disagreement stopped there? Of course not. They go on, just as the heathen did of old. After all, one spiteful act deserves another, right? Wrong! What these sinners have forgotten is that they are neighbors.
GRACE: He's in love with the sound of his own voice.
EMH: Whether we are man or woman, parent or child, flesh and blood, or photons and force fields. It has been said.
GRACE: On the other hand, perhaps he's been nipping at the sacramental wine.
EMH: And as such, our community is everything. It is our world, and we are a part of it, just as a branch is part of a tree. Do you see branches tearing leaves off one another? No! Do you see roots hoarding water from the trunk? No! Do you see
MILO: Easy, Maggie. Whoa. Easy now.
SEAMUS: Father.
EMH: Did you make a wrong turn on your way to the milking shed?
SEAMUS: Weren't nothing like that at all, Father. Something terrible's happened.
EMH: What now?
MILO: This was Maggie O'Halloran. The spirits have turned her into a cow.
GRACE: Maggie O'Halloran's been eaten by a cow?.
EMH: Did you see these spirits?
SEAMUS: That we did. Tom Paris, and Harry Kim.
EMH: I hate to disappoint you, but it sounds as though you've been the victim of a practical joke. Tom Paris is a known prankster.
MILO: Oh, it was unholy magic, I tell you. We saw it with our own eyes.
EMH: When did this alleged transformation take place?
SEAMUS: Last night.
EMH: Well then, that settles it. This couldn't possibly be Maggie O'Halloran. I saw Maggie this morning on my way into church. She was at her cart tending her flowers. She's probably there now. Well, I, I think that's enough excitement for one morning. This mass is over. Go in peace. Er, leave the cow.
MILO: Oh, all right, Father. Excuse us, Maggie.
SEAMUS: Take care, Maggie.

[Street]
SEAMUS: Maggie!
MAGGIE: Well, good morning, boys.
SEAMUS: Is everything all right? You're looking a little out of sorts this morning.
MAGGIE: Yes. Well, I must admit I'm not quite myself today.
SEAMUS: Oh?
MAGGIE: Well, this is going to sound very odd but I feel like I just woke up from the strangest dream, and I don't remember going to sleep.
MILO: You're right, that does sound odd.
SEAMUS: Do you remember anything about last night?
MAGGIE: Well, I was out with Harry Kim. He chatted me up at the Ox and Lamb, and we were off on a walk before I knew it.
MILO: What did you do on your walk?
MAGGIE: We talked. What kind of a girl do you think I am?
SEAMUS: Now, Maggie, we weren't implying anything.
MILO: No.
SEAMUS: Do you recall anything else about the evening?
MILO: Er, did anything out of the ordinary happen? Anything at all?
MAGGIE: I don't remember.
SEAMUS: Well, tell us about the dream, then.
MAGGIE: Oh, it was most unpleasant. I was walking around town with nothing but a bell around my neck. Well, somehow I wound up in church. Everyone was staring at me. You were there, Seamus, and you too, Milo. The next thing I knew, I was tending my flowers just as you boys walked up.
SEAMUS: Well, that's quite a story, Maggie.
MILO: Can we get a quick one?
SEAMUS: Maybe just a wee taste.

[Sullivan's]
MILO: So, I said to young Harry, I'm not one for rainy days and gray skies. As soon as the words were out of my mouth, he called up the spirits to do his bidding. A second later, there wasn't a cloud in the sky.
EDITH: I was up near Ballahick Farm with little Mary. She was playing near the well. Somehow, she lost her footing and fell in. I was so frightened I didn't know what to do. So I ran to the Colbys to get some help. But when we returned, there was Mary in the meadow talking with Katie O'Clare. There wasn't a scratch on her. Katie said I must've been mistaken when I saw her fall. There was no mistake.
GRACE: I saw something strange, too. Well, I hesitated to say anything for fear you'd think me mad. But after listening to your stories today I feel you've a right to know.
MILO: Well? Speak up.
GRACE: Last Sunday, after his sermon, I saw Father Mulligan vanish into thin air.
MILO: He's one of them, right enough. Father Mulligan, Tommy boy, Katie and the rest. They're spirit folk!
MAGGIE: Well, what about that Neelix fellow who runs the Ox and Lamb? Well, if he doesn't look like a leprechaun I don't know who does.
SEAMUS: They're all probably up at Castle O'Dell, conspiring against us.
MICHAEL: Now, that's enough! I can't deny there's been some unusual goings on, but what are you proposing? That we run Katie and her friends out of town? Or maybe we should line them up in front of a firing squad. Is that what you want? These people have been our neighbors. We've become friends. Let's not forget that.
SEAMUS: Well, we can't just sit here and do nothing while they take over Fair Haven.
MICHAEL: I'm not saying we do nothing, but let's go about this like civilized people.
MILO: What do you suggest, we sit them down and discuss it over tea?

[Sullivan's - after hours]
MICHAEL: You're looking lovelier than ever, Katie.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
MICHAEL: Open it.
JANEWAY: The Faerie Queene by Edmund Spenser. Thank you, Michael.
MICHAEL: It's the longest poem in the English language, and the first to use a nine line stanza.
JANEWAY: I'll start reading it tonight. I love epic poetry.
MICHAEL: Really? I didn't know that. It seems as if there's a lot of things I don't know about you. I thought you'd want to know there's been some talk about you and your friends. Strange things have been happening around town. Folk are saying you're to blame.
JANEWAY: What kind of strange things?
MICHAEL: People using unholy magic. Vanishing into thin air. Changing the weather.
JANEWAY: By any chance would all this have anything to do with your reading suggestion?
MICHAEL: As a matter of fact.
JANEWAY: Don't tell me. They say I'm the Faerie Queene.
MICHAEL: Frankly, they could tell me you're the devil himself and I wouldn't care.
JANEWAY: I'll try not to take that personally.
MICHAEL: The sad truth of the matter is, I don't know who you are.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
MICHAEL: You've been lying to me, Katie. I've been doing some checking with friends of mine in County Clare. Seems nobody's heard of you there.
JANEWAY: It's a big county.
MICHAEL: And I've got a lot of friends. You've been evasive from the day we met. I was a fool not to see it. Where do you go when you leave here? There've been times I wanted to talk to you, tell you about my day, about a book I'd read, just to say hello. But I can't, because I don't know where to find you. What're you hiding, Katie?
JANEWAY: I'll admit I have misled you about some things, but never about anything important. And I wasn't lying when I said I care about you.
MICHAEL: I wish I could believe that.
JANEWAY: You can. I didn't want to deceive you, but under the circumstances I had no choice.
MICHAEL: What circumstances?
JANEWAY: Michael, there are things about me you may not be able to understand.
MICHAEL: Try me. Who are you, Katie? Where are you really from? The truth.
JANEWAY: Computer, end program.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: How did he know? Those are questions no holodeck character should be asking. What exactly did you do to that program?
PARIS: Well, I, I just added a few bells and whistles to make the characters more realistic. Nothing too fancy.
JANEWAY: Well, something's gone wrong. The people of Fair Haven aren't simple country folk anymore.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Report.
TORRES: It looks like we've worn out our welcome.
PARIS: It's the first time we've tried running a holodeck program non-stop. We're lucky it lasted this long.
TORRES: There are damaged subroutines in all of the character files.
PARIS: So much for my open door policy.
JANEWAY: Shut it down. And repair the damaged systems.

[Holodeck research lab]
KIM: As I recall, everything was fine until someone started turning people into cows.
PARIS: Computer, display Fair Haven character Michael Sullivan.
KIM: Tom.
MICHAEL: Where am I? Where's Katie?
PARIS: He shouldn't be aware that he's in the lab.
KIM: I've isolated the damaged subroutines.
MICHAEL: I said, where the hell am I?
PARIS: It's all right, Michael. Take it easy.
MICHAEL: What is this place?
PARIS: Try to relax.
MICHAEL: If someone doesn't tell me where I am, I'm going to start busting heads.
KIM: His perceptual filters are malfunctioning.
MICHAEL: What're you saying? What's a perceptual filter?
PARIS: It's, it's okay. We're trying to help you.
KIM: There. Look at these. Those are the algorithms designed to keep him oblivious to anything outside the program's parameters.
PARIS: They're offline .
KIM: Give me a minute. That should do it.
PARIS: How are you feeling, Michael?
MICHAEL: Never better. Harry, Liam's been looking for you. You're the only man in four counties to beat him at arm wrestling. He wants a rematch.
KIM: Tell him he's got one.
MICHAEL: I'll do that.
PARIS: Ha. Well, that was easy enough.
KIM: Yeah. Unfortunately it looks like all the other characters have the same malfunction.
PARIS: Don't tell me we're going to have to go through every one of them?
KIM: If we reactivate the program, use the primary control port in Sullivan's pub, we could reset all the perceptual filters with a single command sequence.
PARIS: I guess we'll be seeing you later.
MICHAEL: Looking forward to it.
PARIS: Computer, resume Fair Haven program in Holodeck one, and transfer Michael Sullivan back to his bar.

[Street]
MICHAEL: Danny. Danny.
DANNY: Yes?
MICHAEL: Come here. Fetch Doc Fitzgerald. Tell him to meet me in the church. Go on. Hurry, lad!

[Bridge]
PARIS: We thought we'd reset his perceptual filters until we took a closer look at his subroutines. Turns out he was just playing along.
JANEWAY: Never underestimate an Irish hologram.
KIM: We'll have to reprogram Michael when we do the others.
JANEWAY: Let's just hope he didn't share the experience with too many others.
KIM: Got it. These resequenced algorithms should do the trick.
JANEWAY: Good luck.
JANEWAY: What the hell was I thinking?
CHAKOTAY: A minor malfunction.
JANEWAY: Well, that's the problem. I've got a boyfriend who malfunctions.
CHAKOTAY: Tom and Harry'll fix him.
JANEWAY: And if they can't?
CHAKOTAY: One piece of advice you've always given me. Tell the truth.
JANEWAY: Hate to break the news to you, Michael, but I'm a starship captain and you're a three hundred deciwatt holodeck program. I couldn't do it.
CHAKOTAY: In that case, you'll have to get creative.

[Saint Mary's]
MICHAEL: I'm not a superstitious man, Doc, but I've been seeing things I can't explain.
FITZGERALD: You're not the only one. At first I thought we had an epidemic on our hands, but this is no fever.
MICHAEL: No, it's not. Last night I was talking to Katie, and the next thing I knew I was being spirited away to God knows where.
FITZGERALD: They took you? Where?
MICHAEL: Maybe it was the Other World. I don't know. Tom Paris was there. Young Harry, too.
FITZGERALD: What did they want with you?
MICHAEL: I'm not sure. They were talking about me like I wasn't there. Saying things about Fair Haven. That we knew too much about them.
FITZGERALD: Oh, Lord.
MICHAEL: And that's not all. They were saying something about coming to the pub tonight to change the town somehow.
FITZGERALD: What does that mean?
MICHAEL: I'm damned if I know.
FITZGERALD: How did you get away?
MICHAEL: With all the talk about us knowing too much about them, I figured that if I pretended nothing was out of the ordinary, they might let me go. And sure enough, that's exactly what they did.
FITZGERALD: I wonder if this is how things started in Killmannin back in '46.
MICHAEL: I'm not sure what they have in mind, but we'd better be prepared.

[Sullivan's - night]
KIM: We're in luck. Nobody's home.

[Saint Mary's]
SEAMUS: If we're going to fight them, we've got to use the right ammunition! Biddy Ramsey gave me this before she passed on. She knew a thing or two about faerie magic and how to fight it. Everything she learned, she learned from this book.
MICHAEL: I doubt if it says anything about using rifles.
MILO: You'd be surprised how many things a bullet will stop.
MICHAEL: I don't like this one bit. Guns, Seamus.
FITZGERALD: Under normal circumstances, I'd agree with you, Michael, but these aren't normal circumstances.
MILO: Maybe you'd still like us to be acting civilized. Where did that get you before? A ticket to the Other World, that's what.
FITZGERALD: We don't know what the spirit folk have in store for us.
MICHAEL: That's just it. We don't know much about anything, do we? And we've got Milo here acting like a holy war has been declared.
SEAMUS: Relax, Sullivan. The rifles are only a last resort. Besides, we've got incantations, which are more lethal to spirit folk than any weapons forged by man. That's how we're going to force them back into their realm. And we've got red twine to stop them from changing shape.
MILO: And don't forget about the ash berries.
SEAMUS: Ash berries, right. That's how you keep them from using their powers against you. They've been walking amongst us for weeks now, pretending to be our friends, lying to us, making mischief. What's next?
MILO: Yes, what is next, Seamus?
SEAMUS: I for one am not going to stand by and let them run roughshod over our town.
ALL: No!
SEAMUS: We can't rest until we've driven every one of them out.
GRACE: They're here! Tom Paris and Harry Kim. They're in Sullivan's right now.
SEAMUS: Who's with me?

[Sullivan's]
PARIS: Seamus, let us explain. You're making a mistake.
MILO: The only mistake we made was letting you into Fair Haven. What's that?
SEAMUS: Shoot it!
PARIS: No, wait, wait. That's a delicate piece of technology.
COMPUTER: Warning. Holodeck controls and safety protocols are offline.
MILO: A voice from the Other World.
COMPUTER: Emergency overrides are malfunctioning.
PARIS: Computer, freeze program!
COMPUTER: Sixty two percent compliance.
SEAMUS: They're getting away! After them!

[Street]
PARIS: Computer, exit!

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Gunfire?
CHAKOTAY: Two shots directly at the primary controls. We can't deactivate the program or get the safeties back online.
JANEWAY: Where are Tom and Harry now?
TORRES: Saint Mary's. Looks like some of your parishioners are holding them captive.
NEELIX: We can't blame them for being frightened. They must think we're some kind of sorcerers.
CHAKOTAY: Well, we could use a little magic right now, because that's about the only way we're going to get our people back.
JANEWAY: Transporters?
CHAKOTAY: Too many stray photons. We can't get a lock.
SEVEN: We should enter the holodeck with a security team and take them by force.
TUVOK: Need I remind you the holo-characters have weapons as well. We'd be risking armed conflict.
TORRES: Well, then let's just pull the plug. Cut power to the hologrid.
NEELIX: That would purge the program from our database.
TORRES: Exactly.
NEELIX: But we'd lose Fair Haven and all its people.
SEVEN: They're not people. They're holograms.
JANEWAY: And they weren't programmed to be violent. I don't believe they'd harm anyone.
TORRES: You can't be certain.
JANEWAY: Well, I am certain, and I'd like to find a less drastic solution.
TORRES: With all due respect, Captain. Michael can be reprogrammed. Tom and Harry can't.
JANEWAY: One problem at a time, B'Elanna. The people of Fair Haven may not be real, but our feelings toward them are. I won't destroy these relationships if we can find another way. Now, if we could attach transport enhancers onto Tom and Harry, would that be enough to cut through the interference?
TUVOK: I believe so.
JANEWAY: Good. Then we just need to get someone close to them. Doctor.
EMH: A few words of inspiration should get me within reach.
SEVEN: I suggest you use your mobile emitter. It'll isolate you from the malfunctions.
JANEWAY: Good idea. Stand by to cut power to the hologrid in case things get out of hand.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: In the meantime, I believe your flock needs tending.

[Saint Mary's]
SEAMUS: Ex labis caelestium sanctorum super ad aures atrorum larvarum mentientium. From the lips of the heavenly saints above, to the ears of the dark and lying spirits, may your spectral forms be cast back to the Other World. Back to the Other World! There must be some trick to these incantations.
MILO: What do you make of this, Seamus?
KIM: We should just tell them the truth.
PARIS: Oh, good idea, Harry. Do you want to tell them they're only holograms, or should I?
SEAMUS: I see you left your box of charms at Sullivan's. I believe this is the talisman you used on Maggie. Maybe we should turn them into cows.
PARIS: No, no, there's been a misunderstanding. We are not spirit folk.
MILO: I think we've heard enough of your lies, Tommy boy. I say we tie them up to the lamp post in the square and show them how spirit folk were dealt with in the olden days.
MICHAEL: Leave them alone. It's bad enough you've got them trussed up like Christmas turkeys. There's no need for foolish threats.
MILO: You'd better watch whose side you're on. You're not above suspicion yourself.
MICHAEL: Oh, so we're going to start turning on one another now, is that it?
MILO: We are, if you're choosing them over your own people.
EMH: Sinners! Sinners, all of you. You have the audacity to turn a house of worship into a prison? This is where we gather to pledge our love for our fellow man, not condemnation. You should all be ashamed of yourselves.
SEAMUS: Quite a rousing sermon, Father, but I'm afraid you're not going to find too many takers tonight.
MILO: Not after your little vanishing act. It seems Grace Declan saw you disappear into thin air on Sunday.
SEAMUS: Aye, I'd say that sounds a wee bit unholy. You're in league with them, aren't you? Tie him up with the others.
EMH: Listen to yourselves. You're letting confusion and fear get the best of you. Doctor to Janeway.
SEAMUS: What's this?
EMH: Fire and brimstone don't seem to be working.
MILO: Look here, Seamus. Another talisman.
SEAMUS: Quick, get it off of him.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Beam him out of there.
TUVOK: His program's been disengaged from the mobile emitter.

[Saint Mary's]
SEAMUS: And what were you planning on doing with these?
KIM: Those are the devices that will allow us to leave. You just put them on our coats and we'll be on our way.
MILO: You'd like us to believe that, wouldn't you.
SEAMUS: Something tells me these are spirit charms. We pin them on you and God knows what powers you'll have.
MICHAEL: This is no charm. It's some kind of a machine.
MILO: It doesn't matter. They won't be telling us the truth about any of it.
SEAMUS: Oh, they'll tell us the truth, all right. There's more than one way to pluck the wings off a pixie. We'll induce a trance. Give me Biddy Ramsey's spoon. Keep your eyes on the silverware, Father.
EMH: I hope you know this is blasphemous. Oh, this is ridiculous. I can't be hypnotized.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: I can't isolate the Doctor's program.
JANEWAY: He's been integrated into the Fair Haven matrix. He's vulnerable.

[Saint Mary's]
SEAMUS: Tell us the words. How do we banish the spirit folk to the Other World?
EMH: There is no Other World. Only Voyager.
MILO: Voyager?
EMH: Federation starship, Intrepid class, registry number NCC74656.
MICHAEL: You're from some sort of vessel?
EMH: Mmm hmm.
SEAMUS: He's talking gibberish.
MICHAEL: Maybe he's not. This ship of yours. Is that where you took me?
SEAMUS: Look here. It says if you can get a spirit to reveal his true name you'll render yourself impervious to his charms.
MILO: What is your true name?
EMH: I haven't decided on one yet.
MICHAEL: Katie's on that ship, isn't she? Tell me where to find her so I can get to the bottom of this.
PARIS: I'm sorry, Michael. I can't do that.
MICHAEL: Then I guess I'm asking the wrong person. Tell me how to get to Voyager.
MILO: What are you doing, Sullivan?
SEAMUS: No man who's gone to the Other World has ever come back.
MICHAEL: I have. How do I get there?

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, the mobile emitter has been activated.
JANEWAY: Lock onto the signal.
MICHAEL: I had a cousin went to America. He saw some strange things, but nothing like this.
JANEWAY: You're not in America. This is a starship. It's called
MICHAEL: Voyager. I know.
TUVOK: Should I transfer him back to the holodeck?
JANEWAY: No. My name isn't Katie O'Clare. It's Kathryn Janeway. Captain Kathryn Janeway. It's going to be difficult to explain. Maybe it's best if I just show you.
MICHAEL: You've seen my world. It seems fair that I should have a chance to see yours.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?

[Corridor]
MICHAEL: So, this really is a starship. But how can that be possible?
JANEWAY: Have you ever read The Time Machine, by H. G. Wells?
MICHAEL: Are you telling me you've traveled back through time?
JANEWAY: In a manner of speaking.
MICHAEL: That's Patrick Gibson and his cousin, Frank. They work on the wharf. They're in my pub every Saturday night for the rings tournament.
JANEWAY: You'll find a lot of familiar faces on Voyager. We've been visiting your town for months.
MICHAEL: Why?
JANEWAY: We're explorers.
MICHAEL: I'm not letting you off the hook that easy, Kathryn Janeway. There must be more interesting places to explore than Fair Haven.
JANEWAY: Can you think of any place you'd rather be?
MICHAEL: I guess that leaves but one question. How long are you planning on staying?
JANEWAY: Well that depends if we're still welcome.
MICHAEL: My door is always open. But you're the captain of a starship, I'm a barkeep.
JANEWAY: Just because we're from different worlds doesn't mean we can't care for each other.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK (voiceover): The situation has escalated.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The townspeople have started to pile kindling at the base of three lampposts

[Corridor]
TUVOK (voiceover): In the village square.
JANEWAY: Stand by.

[Saint Mary's]
SEAMUS: Take them outside now.
MILO: Stay back.
FITZGERALD: What are you doing?
MILO: That might not be Michael Sullivan. A demon could have taken his shape.
MICHAEL: It's me, Milo. I've been to the place they call Voyager, and I've brought Katie back with me.
JANEWAY: I've come in hopes that we can resolve our differences peacefully.
MILO: Peacefully? I'm sure that's what you told the people of Killmannin.
MICHAEL: They had nothing to do with what happened in Killmannin, if it happened at all.
JANEWAY: We're truly sorry for what's happened here. We never meant to frighten anyone.
MICHAEL: Seamus, you were right about one thing. They are quite different from us, but not in so many ways that we can't be friends.
JANEWAY: And we're not spirit folk. Some of our technology may seem like magic, but I assure you it's not.
MICHAEL: Katie showed me things that are beyond our comprehension. They have machines that I can't begin to describe, but not once have they used them against us. Quite the opposite, in fact. Milo, you said you didn't like the rain and young Harry Kim made it go away. Edith Mulchaey herself said that Katie O'Clare pulled her daughter from the well and out of harm's way. These are not the deeds of spirits and mischief makers.
SEAMUS: But they turned Maggie into a cow.
PARIS: That'll never happen again, I swear.
MICHAEL: There, you see? We have his word, and if we can't trust a man's word in Fair Haven, what can we trust?
JANEWAY: If you want, we'll leave and never bother you again. But we'd prefer to find some way to keep our friendship alive.
EMH: Captain?
MICHAEL: I, for one, would like to keep playing rings with Harry and Tom, keep having Neelix's steamed cabbage at the Ox and Lamb, keep taking walks with Katie. Let's not turn our backs on these good people. If we do, we're only punishing ourselves. Just because we're from different worlds doesn't mean we can't care for each other.

[Engineering]
TORRES: If we're going to retain the program, we can't keep running it around the clock.
PARIS: Not until we've repaired these damaged systems.
TORRES: Not ever. We've pushed the limits of holotechnology and they pushed back. If we try it again, we're just asking for trouble.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid we're going to have to close your open door policy.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
TORRES: What about the characters. Should I purge their memories of the last few days?
JANEWAY: No, leave them.
EMH: They think we're spacemen from the future. It won't exactly be like old times.
JANEWAY: We learn to accept alien species with new technologies. Let's hope the people of Fair Haven will learn to accept us. But before we shut down the program and begin repairs, what do you say to one more round at Sullivan's? My treat.

[Fair Haven]
MILO: You may be from the moon, Tommy boy, but I've got three shillings that says I can still whip you at rings.
PARIS: Oh, you're on.
MAGGIE: Hello, Harry.
PARIS: I'll catch up with you later.
SEAMUS: Tommy boy! I've been told there's a pot of gold somewhere in Glen Abbey. Would you be able to find it with one of those fancy machines of yours?
PARIS: Just follow the rainbow, Seamus.
SEAMUS: Rainbow, eh?
KIM: I didn't think you'd ever speak to me again.
MAGGIE: Well, I suppose I can forgive and forget. It's not that often you meet a handsome young man from outer space.
MICHAEL: What's this, Christmas come early?
JANEWAY: It has for you. Open it.
MICHAEL: A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court, by Mark Twain. I've read some of his books, but not this one.
JANEWAY: It's about two people from different times who fall in love, among other things.
MICHAEL: Sounds familiar. Maybe I have read it. Thank you, Katie. Or Kathryn now, is it?
JANEWAY: Och.
MICHAEL: They say if you know a spirit's true name that it renders you impervious against her charm. Do you think there's any truth in that?
JANEWAY: Not a word.
MICHAEL: I'm glad to hear it.

[Kobali shuttle]
BALLARD: Tam'vitte. Me'iote rel mestal.
COMPUTER: Mestal te'iote senve.
BALLARD: Siote ven'suil. Bekta!
BALLARD: Tam'vitte. Me'iote sendaya Voyager. Federation Starship Voyager. If you can hear me, please respond.

[Astrometrics lab]
BALLARD (voiceover): If you can hear me, please respond. Voyager, please respond.

[Kobali Shuttle]
BALLARD: Come on, Voyager. I know you're there.

[Astrometrics lab]
MEZOTI: Hello?

[Kobali Shuttle]
BALLARD: Voyager? Are you receiving this transmission?

[Astrometrics lab]
MEZOTI: My designation is Mezoti.

[Kobali Shuttle]
BALLARD: You sound a little young to be working the comm.

[Astrometrics lab]
MEZOTI: I'm eight.

[Kobali Shuttle]
BALLARD: I see. Are there any grown-ups I could speak to?
MEZOTI (voiceover): My species is six eight nine.

[Astrometrics lab]
MEZOTI: Norcadian. What species are you?

[Kobali Shuttle]
BALLARD: That's a complicated question.

[Astrometrics lab]
MEZOTI: Explain.
BALLARD (voiceover): I don't know how long I can keep this channel open.

[Kobali Shuttle]
BALLARD: I need you to patch me through to Captain Janeway.

[Astrometrics lab]
MEZOTI: I'll try, but my height may be insufficient.

[Kobali shuttle]
BALLARD: Hello? Voyager?

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: Mezoti, you are not authorized to be in here.
MEZOTI: Are you going to report me to the captain?
TUVOK: Considering this is your first offense, a warning will suffice.
SEVEN: What were my instructions?
MEZOTI: To wait in the Cargo Bay until you returned.
SEVEN: Why didn't you comply?
TUVOK: You left the children unsupervised.
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres required my assistance in Engineering. I was gone for less than ten minutes.
ICHEB: We told her not to deviate from your instructions. She wouldn't listen.
TUVOK: When the captain asked you to take charge of these children, you assured her that you could maintain order.
SEVEN: Controlling them is proving more difficult than I anticipated. They're highly unpredictable.
TUVOK: Meditation helps Vulcan children to control their emotions. You might consider
SEVEN: Mezoti!
MEZOTI: I'm trying to talk to the woman.
SEVEN: What woman?
MEZOTI: The one transmitting from spatial grid two three six nine.
SEVEN: She's made contact with a small ship approximately three light years from here.
TUVOK: Alien vessel, this is the starship Voyager. Respond.
BALLARD (voiceover): Tuvok? It's you, isn't it?
TUVOK: This is Lieutenant Commander Tuvok.
BALLARD (voiceover): Sounds like someone got promoted. I want to hear all about it, but first I need to speak to Captain Janeway.

[Bridge]
BALLARD (screen): You're a sight for sore eyes, Captain. You, too, Harry.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, but do we know you?
BALLARD (screen): I'm Ensign Lyndsay Ballard. I was a member of your crew. Of course, I'm not surprised you don't recognize me.
JANEWAY: I don't know who you are, but I'm not amused. Ensign Ballard died almost
BALLARD (screen): It was on Stardate 51563. I can't blame you for being skeptical, Captain, but if you let me come aboard, I can explain everything.
JANEWAY: We'll beam you to Sickbay.
BALLARD (screen): I'm sure you'll want me behind a level ten force field.
JANEWAY: No offense.
BALLARD (screen): None taken. I'm just glad to be home.
CHAKOTAY: Captain? What do you think?
JANEWAY: She seems to have intimate knowledge of this ship and its crew. I think we should find out who she is.
KIM: Captain, I'd like to come with you. I was very close to Lyndsay, and if somehow it's her, I'll know.

[Sickbay]
BALLARD: Harry and I were on our way to a class M planet in the Vyntadi Expanse to recover dilithium ore we'd detected a few days earlier. When we landed, we realized it was a trap set by a Hirogen hunting party. They'd reconfigured a power cell to give off false dilithium readings.
KIM: That's exactly what happened.
JANEWAY: Go on.
BALLARD: Harry and I headed back to the shuttle. We were ten feet away when I was hit with a neural disrupter. Harry said my injury wasn't that bad. He always was a terrible liar.
KIM: I tried to get Lyndsay back to Voyager but she was already dead. We buried her in space.
JANEWAY: Go on with your story.
BALLARD: I woke up on a ship, in a stasis chamber surrounded by aliens. They told me they'd used their technology to reanimate me. I didn't believe them when they said I'd died, but they showed me visual scans of my own corpse lying in the torpedo casing I'd been buried in. The Kobali said I'd been drifting for weeks.
JANEWAY: Kobali?
BALLARD: If you ever met them, you'd remember. They look just like this. After the reanimation process, they spent months altering my DNA. They were constantly scanning me, injecting me.
KIM: Just to make you look like one of them?
BALLARD: That's how they procreate. They salvage the dead of other races. I was given a Kobali name and placed with a family to help me acclimate.
JANEWAY: You were a prisoner.
BALLARD: At first. I wanted to contact you, to tell you I was safe, but the Kobali wouldn't let me. They said you were part of my kyn'steya, my, my past life, and that I needed to forget you. All of you. So I spent two years letting my new family think I'd accepted them. When I finally earned their trust, I stole a shuttle and started looking for Voyager. That was six months ago. They've been chasing me ever since.
EMH: In spite of her appearance, I'm detecting traces of human DNA. I've compared them with the genetic samples from Ensign Ballard's file. They match.
JANEWAY: It's certainly a convincing story.
BALLARD: But your Starfleet training is telling you to consider all the possibilities. Maybe I'm some sort of hybrid clone, or telepath who accessed Ensign Ballard's memory somehow? Believe me, I was suspicious myself at first, but I am Lyndsay Ballard.
JANEWAY: Until we find evidence to the contrary, welcome home.
KIM: Captain, could you give us a minute?
JANEWAY: Doctor.
KIM: So it's really you?
BALLARD: In the flesh, so to speak.
BALLARD: I've missed you, too.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: I know you're all as eager as I am to welcome Ensign Ballard back. She's a fine officer, who's shown a lot of courage and determination over the past few years. And we're lucky to have her with us again. Let's do everything we can to make her feel at home.
NEELIX: Tom and I have already taken the liberty of removing Lyndsay's personal effects from storage.
TORRES: And whenever you're ready, your old shift is waiting for you in Engineering.
BALLARD: Thanks, Lieutenant.
CHAKOTAY: Before we get ahead of ourselves, let's not forget the Kobali are still out there.
JANEWAY: It seems they want her back as much as we want to keep her. We'll need to take precautions in case they track her to Voyager.
TUVOK: I've run preliminary scans on the Kobali shuttle. I believe I can adapt our systems to counter a possible attack.
JANEWAY: Very good. Well, if there's no further business.
BALLARD: Thank you for saying those nice things about me.
JANEWAY: You seem surprised.
BALLARD: To be honest, I never thought you noticed me.
JANEWAY: My mistake.

[Corridor]
BALLARD: So, you still playing the clarinet?
KIM: Actually, I've taken up the saxophone.
BALLARD: Ambitious. I bet you're good at it.
KIM: You always were my biggest fan.
BALLARD: Please, no past tense.
KIM: Sorry. This is a little strange for me.
BALLARD: Really? It's been a perfectly normal day for me.

[Turbolift]
KIM: Deck two.
BALLARD: It just so happens that hearing you play music again is number twenty six on my list.
KIM: List?
BALLARD: Something I made up to pass the time while I was away. I tried to think of everything I would do if I got back to Voyager, including some things I wasn't able to accomplish the first time I was here.
KIM: Like showing up for duty shifts on time?
BALLARD: That's number twenty seven.

[Mess hall]
NAOMI: They're here.
NEELIX: Ah. Why don't you and I have a cup of tea while the children play?
SEVEN: Thank you, but they require my supervision.
NAOMI: I like your braid.
MEZOTI: I could show you how to do it.
SEVEN: Mezoti.
NEELIX: Something wrong?
SEVEN: I've allotted one hour for recreational activity. There's no time for irrelevant conversation.
MEZOTI: It's not irrelevant.
SEVEN: Adhering to our schedule will allow us to use our time more efficiently. We'll be able to participate in
MEZOTI: A wider variety of activities.
SEVEN: Fun will now commence.
NAOMI: Green. Grid three thirteen.
AZAN: Counter. Grid ten.
NAOMI: They're cheating.
NEELIX: How?
MEZOTI: Azan is using his neural interface to share information.
SEVEN: Is this true? You will exercise punishment protocol nine alpha.
ICHEB: If they cannot participate, neither will I.
SEVEN: You are encouraging disorder.
ICHEB: And you never let us do what we want.
SEVEN: You will exercise punishment protocol nine alpha.
ICHEB: No, I won't.

[Ballard's quarters]
KIM: There you go.
BALLARD: I can't believe you saved all this.
KIM: Tuvok thought I should recycle everything, but I just couldn't bring myself to do it.
BALLARD: My skates and I thank you from the bottom of our hearts.
KIM: Do you know how long it took me to fold those?
BALLARD: Same old Harry.
KIM: What's that supposed to mean?
BALLARD: You're still sort of obsessive.
KIM: I'm tidy.
BALLARD: Is that why you used to request baryon sweeps of your dorm room?
KIM: When you live across the hall from a slob.
BALLARD: Hey, show some respect for the dead. Did I say something wrong?
KIM: It's nothing.
BALLARD: Just because I've been gone for three years doesn't mean I can't still read you like a book.
KIM: I gave the eulogy at your funeral.
BALLARD: Oh? What'd you say? Come on, it's everyone's fantasy to hear their own eulogy.
KIM: Absolutely not.
BALLARD: It's probably for the best. You always were a terrible public speaker. I just hope you didn't stutter too much.
KIM: I told them you had a favorite saying. Something you got from an old Klingon battle cry?
BALLARD: Own the day.
KIM: I said that you always believed in attacking each day, possessing it, and that that was what made you so much fun to be around.
BALLARD: Is that when everybody burst into tears?
KIM: I said that if you'd been there, you would have told them to own that day. To attack it, make it their own, and plan to do the same thing tomorrow.
BALLARD: Pretty strong stuff.
KIM: You were a strong person.
BALLARD: Not always. These last six months haven't been easy. There were plenty of times when I could have given up.
KIM: But you didn't.
BALLARD: You know why? You. I wanted to see you again. Hmm. Guess I won't be needing this anymore.
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to Ensign Ballard. I've finished analyzing your bio-scans.
BALLARD: I'm on my way.

[Sickbay]
EMH: My scans identified a genetic pathogen in your bloodstream. It appears to have converted most of your human DNA into a Kobali protein structure.
KIM: Is there any way to reverse it?
EMH: The biochemical changes have affected every system in your body. I'm afraid there isn't enough of your original DNA left to make you human again. But I believe I can affect some cosmetic changes.
BALLARD: Are you saying you could make me look like me again?
EMH: Yes. The alternations would literally be skin-deep, and it may take several treatments, but I've devised an inaprovaline compound which should do the trick. Physiologically, you'd still be Kobali with a multispheric brain, a binary cardiovascular system.
BALLARD: But I'd look human?
EMH: Oh, yes.
BALLARD: I've lived with this face for long enough. Let's do it.
EMH: Have a seat. You may experience some dizziness.
BALLARD: I'll hang onto Harry for support, if he doesn't mind.
KIM: That's what I'm here for.
BALLARD: What? Something wrong?
KIM: See for yourself.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Here we are, one Jibelian berry salad.
BALLARD: I have been looking forward to this for a very long time.
KIM: It was number six on her list.
BALLARD: There isn't much variety in the Kobali diet. I ate the same gray paste for three years. It doesn't taste the way I remember it.
NEELIX: What's wrong? Too sweet?
BALLARD: No offense, but it's got sort of a metallic flavor.
KIM: Seems fine to me.
BALLARD: I guess my taste buds are still Kobali.
NEELIX: Can I get you something else?
BALLARD: Thanks, but I need to take care of number sixteen. Dazzle Lieutenant Torres.

[Engineering]
TORRES: One minute early.
BALLARD: There's a first time for everything.
TORRES: An alignment error has been cropping up in the dilithium matrix. We can't seem to figure out what's causing it. I, I know that you're still settling in so I'll give you a couple of days to
BALLARD: It's a vyk'tiote.
TORRES: Excuse me?
BALLARD: Oh, a Kobali word to describe a certain kind of wave phenomenon. It's hard to translate.
TORRES: Try me.
BALLARD: Literally, it means crumpled dance. All I need to do is vyq'tal the qen'dioqe matrices, stabilize the per'cheya. Tez'tel, se menna. Cham'bioque! What?
TORRES: You were speaking Kobali.
BALLARD: I didn't realize. I'm sorry.
TORRES: Well, whatever you did, the alignment error is gone. Nice job.
BALLARD: Thanks.
TORRES: I think there might be a few crumpled dances in the warp core, too. Feel like taking a look?

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: Any sign of the Kobali?
SEVEN: None.
CHAKOTAY: The latest tactical reports from Tuvok.
SEVEN: Commander. I no longer wish to serve as guardian to the Borg children.
CHAKOTAY: What's the problem?
SEVEN: Their behavior is chaotic. My attempts to apply discipline only result in further disorder.
CHAKOTAY: Well, kids and disorder usually go hand in hand.
SEVEN: Neelix issued a similar warning prior to my taking this assignment, which is why I devised an activities schedule to promote focus and unity. Oh seven hundred hours, the children emerge from their alcoves. Nutrients are ingested in the mess hall prior to proceeding to the science lab to begin classes. At thirteen hundred hours nutrients are consumed a second time, before reporting to the holodeck, where they're studying comparative alien physiology.
CHAKOTAY: Doesn't sound like there's much time for fun.
SEVEN: On the contrary, I've scheduled recreational activities.
CHAKOTAY: You can't always schedule fun, Seven. Sometimes it needs to be spontaneous.
SEVEN: According to my research, children require structure.
CHAKOTAY: I agree, but not to this extreme. You're treating them like they're still on a Borg Cube.
SEVEN: You're comparing me to the Collective?
CHAKOTAY: You have all four children functioning as one. They do the same things together at the same time.
SEVEN: So that each child has the same opportunities to learn.
CHAKOTAY: They're individuals. Maybe they're rebelling because you don't let them express themselves.
SEVEN: Then grant my request. Choose a more suitable crew member to instruct them.
CHAKOTAY: Sorry, Seven. Permission denied.

[Corridor]
PARIS: Well, I see you're finally going to try my hockey program.
KIM: Actually, I'm taking Lyndsay skating.
PARIS: Oh. You two sure have been spending a lot of time together lately.
KIM: Don't start.
PARIS: Oh, now, let's see. For those of us keeping score, Harry Kim has fallen for a hologram, a Borg, the wrong twin, and now the dearly departed.
KIM: We're friends, just like before. All right. Maybe there was a time when I thought of pursuing Lyndsay, but I closed the door on that when we both got assigned to Voyager.
PARIS: Hmm. Don't look now, but that door is creaking open.

[Sickbay]
BALLARD: What do you think?
KIM: You look great.
BALLARD: Doctor thought I should stick to my original color, but this seemed more exciting.
EMH: Hair is one of my specialties, despite evidence to the contrary.
BALLARD: It's just too bad that beneath this beautiful red hair still lies the six-lobed brain of a Kobali.
KIM: Well, are you feeling human enough for a little skating?
BALLARD: I'd love to, but I already have a date.
KIM: Who with?
BALLARD: The Captain. She's invited me to her quarters for dinner.
KIM: In six years, I have never been invited to the captain's quarters for dinner.
BALLARD: Well, I'll give her your regards.

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Oh, damn!
JANEWAY: Come in. Formal dress wasn't required, Ensign.
BALLARD: Well, I just, I figured, dinner with the captain.
JANEWAY: I'd hardly call this dinner. My replicator decided to liquefy the pot roast.
BALLARD: It looks fine to me.
JANEWAY: Stop trying to get on my good side and grab a slice of bread. Peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. I hope you don't mind.
BALLARD: Not at all. I lived on them at the Academy.
JANEWAY: So, how was your first day back on the job?
BALLARD: Pretty good, I think. Lieutenant Torres called my work competent.
JANEWAY: Trust me, that's high praise coming from B'Elanna. Commander Tuvok finished his analysis of your shuttle and presented me with thirty seven different ways of repelling a Kobali attack.
BALLARD: Did he include your pot roast? I'm sorry. I didn't mean. I can't believe I just said that.
JANEWAY: Why? It was funny. We're not on the bridge, Lyndsay. You have permission to speak freely.
BALLARD: Do you really mean that?
JANEWAY: I wouldn't have said it otherwise.
BALLARD: Then there's something I've wanted to ask you for a long time. Why me?
JANEWAY: I'm sorry?
BALLARD: Why did you choose me for that away mission?
JANEWAY: Why, I suppose I thought you were best suited for the job.
BALLARD: No, I wasn't. Dilithium extraction was always Lieutenant Torres' specialty. And Tuvok had far more experience conducting away missions. But you didn't send either one of them. Was it because they were closer to you?
JANEWAY: You blame me.
BALLARD: No, no, that's not what I meant.
JANEWAY: It's okay, Lyndsay.
BALLARD: No, it's not.
JANEWAY: I'm not offended.
BALLARD: No, you don't understand. Never harbor anger toward those who brought you death, for they gave you the chance to live again. In letting me die, Captain, you gave me life. I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: Lyndsay.
BALLARD: I'm sorry. I shouldn't have come.

[Mess hall - Ballard's dream]
JANEWAY: You're late.
EMH: We expected you hours ago.
BALLARD: For what?
NEELIX: Your farewell party.
TORRES: You weren't supposed to come back.
CHAKOTAY: You don't belong here anymore.
BALLARD: Harry, what's going on?
KIM: Lyndsay Ballard, beloved friend and crewman. Does that sound right?
BALLARD: What?
KIM: For your eulogy. Does that sound okay?
BALLARD: Harry, I'm not dead.
EMH: Denial. One of the final stages.
TUVOK: It was illogical for you to return.
BALLARD: Please, I don't want to go.
KIM: I couldn't save you before, Lyndsay. What makes you think I can save you now?
Q'RET: Jen'to ka'siote, Jhet'leya.

[Kim's quarters]
KIM: Come in.
KIM: What's wrong?
BALLARD: Bad day, I guess.
KIM: B'Elanna told me you did great in Engineering.
BALLARD: I solved a simple problem.
KIM: Didn't sound so simple to me.
BALLARD: Any Kobali can discern simple wave distortions. And even if B'Elanna was impressed, the others were staring at me.
KIM: I'm sure it was just your imagination.
BALLARD: And then, to make matters worse, I started babbling in front of the Captain.
KIM: I used to get pretty nervous around her, too. Don't worry. I'm sure she didn't take it personally. Hey. I know this isn't easy, but I'll help you through this.
BALLARD: You have always been far too nice to me. Why is that?
KIM: You really don't have any idea, do you? Think about it. I rearranged my schedule at the Academy just so we'd be in the same classes. I let you teach me how to skate even though I hate the cold. I'm crazy about you. I have been since the day we met.
BALLARD: Why didn't you ever tell me?
KIM: I was never good at public speaking, remember, but I figure, how often do you get a second chance? Which is why I'd very much like to kiss you now.
BALLARD: Own the day.

[Mess hall]
MEZOTI: Sorry.
ICHEB: You are creating disorder. Seven will be angry.
MEZOTI: I don't care.
AZAN: They're cubes.
SEVEN: I can see that.
REBI: Precisely one one thousandth the size of a Borg vessel.
SEVEN: Well done.
ICHEB: A twenty six sided polyhedron, composed of hexagons, octagons and squares.
SEVEN: Impressive. What's this?
MEZOTI: Can't you tell? It's you.
SEVEN: I don't see the resemblance.
MEZOTI: Look. Here's your ocular implant, your nose, your mouth.
SEVEN: You were instructed to create a geometric shape.
ICHEB: I reminded her of that. She wouldn't comply.
MEZOTI: This was more fun. Don't you like it?
SEVEN: It is crude. However, it does demonstrate ingenuity and individuality.
ICHEB: She deviated from your instructions. Aren't you going to implement a punishment protocol?
SEVEN: No. Resume your disorder.

[Kim's quarters]
KIM: Lyndsay?
BALLARD: They're coming.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Red alert. Raise shields.
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
Q'RET (screen): I've come for Jhet'leya.
JANEWAY: If you're referring to Ensign Ballard, she's made it clear that she doesn't want to go with you.
Q'RET (screen): She's my daughter. Please, I've come a long way. I only want to speak with her.

[Corridor]
KIM: You don't have to see him, you know. They can't make you.
BALLARD: I want to, Harry. It's time to stop running.

[Briefing room]
Q'RET: I appreciate this, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm willing to oblige as long as you understand that this meeting is over as soon as Ensign Ballard says it is.
Q'RET: What have they done to you?
BALLARD: Given me my life back.
Q'RET: You were so beautiful. It's good to see you, Jhet'leya.
BALLARD: My name is Lyndsay.
Q'RET: Why did you leave us?
BALLARD: I wanted to be with my people again.
Q'RET: These people? The same ones who set you adrift in space?
JANEWAY: We jettisoned her body in accordance with our customs.
Q'RET: You abandoned her.
KIM: You had no right to tamper with her remains.
Q'RET: We were acting in accordance with our customs.
KIM: You mutilated her.
TUVOK: Ensign.
Q'RET: The reanimation process usually results in extensive memory loss, which makes the transition less painful. Unfortunately, some remember their former lives more than others. Jhet'leya, for example.
BALLARD: I told you to call me
Q'RET: Lyndsay Ballard. She's dead. She has been for three years. Forgive me for being so blunt, but when we found her she was a lifeless corpse. We salvaged that raw material to create a new person, my daughter, whom I love.
BALLARD: I'm not your daughter.
Q'RET: You may have altered your appearance, but do you still think like these people? Even now, the first words that come into your head, are they in their language or mine? I realize this place is familiar to you, but it's not where you belong. Your sister misses you.
BALLARD: Tynsia.
Q'RET: She keeps asking when you're coming home. What should I tell her?
BALLARD: Tell her that her sister's dead.
TUVOK: I'll escort you to the transporter room.
Q'RET: I won't give her up, Captain.
JANEWAY: She made her wishes clear.
Q'RET: She's confused.
KIM: Thanks to what you did to her.
Q'RET: I don't want to fight you.
JANEWAY: Your ship is no match for Voyager.
Q'RET: Every life is precious to my people, Captain. I won't be coming back alone.

[Mess hall]
KIM: Midnight snack?
BALLARD: Kobali cuisine at its finest.
KIM: So I was giving some thought to number thirty two, make Tuvok laugh? He has this holoprogram, The Temple of T'Panit. I thought we might tweak it so that instead of Vulcan prayers, the monks recite Ferengi limericks? You're not laughing.
BALLARD: Sorry. I can't stop thinking about Q'Ret.
KIM: I can't believe he had the nerve to call himself your father. I'll bet Professor Ballard would have had something to say about that.
BALLARD: Who?
KIM: Your dad. Doesn't he teach at some university?
BALLARD: I don't remember. I don't remember anything about him.
KIM: Let's get down to the holodeck. We've got some monks to tweak.
BALLARD: Sure.
KIM: What's wrong?

[Sickbay]
KIM: Why did she start to revert all of a sudden?
EMH: Our old friend, the pathogen. It's adapting to counteract my treatments. It's possible she'll suffer occasional relapses for the rest of her life.
BALLARD: You said you could maintain my appearance.
EMH: I can, but it looks like I'll need to increase the frequency of your treatments. You'll have to see me at least twice a day.
BALLARD: How am I supposed to do my job if I'm in here all the time. How am I supposed to do anything?
EMH: Please try to understand.
BALLARD: Stoi'gia! Net'staika pen'daeli shevaob! I'm sorry.

[Kobali shuttle]
KIM: Wow. This place sure is lived in.
BALLARD: If you're here to lecture me about cleanliness.
KIM: I'm here to ask you to stop the treatments.
BALLARD: You know what happens if I do.
KIM: You'll look Kobali again? So what? I thought you were cute bald. I don't care if you're human, Kobali or Bolian, I just want you to be happy.
BALLARD: I wouldn't fit in.
KIM: Are you saying Tuvok and Neelix don't fit in?
BALLARD: That's different. They got to grow up in their own cultures. They know where they come from, who they are.
KIM: Wherever they come from, they're part of this crew now. Just like you.
BALLARD: Lyndsay was part of this crew. If I stop the treatments, I won't be Lyndsay anymore.
KIM: You don't honestly believe that.
BALLARD: Since the day I got back here, I haven't felt right. At first I thought it was Voyager. Things had changed so much, I thought if I just gave myself more time I'd get used to it. But it's me. I've changed. And the more I try to deny it, the more I feel like a ghost. I'm sorry, Harry, but I can't keep fighting anymore.
KIM: What about us?
BALLARD: The girl you were in love with died three years ago.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Shield's down to forty eight percent.
JANEWAY: Target the lead ship's weapons array.
CHAKOTAY: Life support's failing on decks six through ten.
JANEWAY: Reroute power to compensate.
TUVOK: Shields at twenty percent.
BALLARD: Hail them! Tell them you'll surrender me.
KIM: Don't listen to her, Captain.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the gesture, Lyndsay, but I'm not giving you up.
BALLARD: It's not a gesture. I want to go. I don't belong here.
KIM: She's not well. She doesn't know what she's saying.
BALLARD: I know exactly what I'm saying.
TUVOK: Shields at thirteen percent.
KIM: I'm detecting power fluctuations in the lead vessel's warp drive. A polaron burst could overload the core.
BALLARD: That would destroy the ship.
KIM: They're not leaving us much choice.
CHAKOTAY: Whatever we do, we have to do it fast.
JANEWAY: You're sure this is what you want?
KIM: Captain, I can fire that polaron burst myself.
CHAKOTAY: Stand down, Ensign.
KIM: We can't just let them take her.
BALLARD: Even if you stop them, I can't stay on Voyager.
KIM: I don't want to lose you.
BALLARD: You already did, but at least this time we've been given the chance to say goodbye.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 53679.4. The Doctor has stopped Ensign Ballard's treatments and her Kobali physiology is already beginning to reassert itself. All but one of us have said our goodbyes.

[Transporter room]
KIM: Vien'ke debala, Jhet'leya. I taught myself to say a few words in Kobali.
BALLARD: That's very sweet of you, but you just told me the comets are tiresome.
KIM: I guess I'd better work on my pronunciation. I'm sorry you didn't get to finish everything on your list.
BALLARD: I think I took care of what really mattered.

[Mess hall]
MEZOTI: That's pretty.
KIM: It belonged to a friend of mine. Would you like it?
MEZOTI: Your friend won't mind?
KIM: I think she'd be happy knowing I gave it to someone with such pretty hair.
MEZOTI: Seven's letting us go to the holodeck by ourselves. She says we can run any program we want. Do you want to come?
KIM: Have you ever heard of The Temple of T'Panit? It's a Vulcan program.
MEZOTI: Sounds boring.
KIM: Don't worry, we'll make a few tweaks.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Why potatoes?
SEVEN: Their first idea was to clone Naomi, but I suggested they start with something smaller.
TORRES: Quite a feat of engineering.
MEZOTI: It's a Teirenian ant colony. I infused the soil with a blue ion dye so it'd be easier to see the insects.
JANEWAY: They're luminescent.
MEZOTI: The drones produce a fluorescent enzyme that's activated by the Queen.
JANEWAY: Drones and Queens? I thought we were trying to get these children away from the Borg.
SEVEN: The project was Mezoti's idea. I didn't want to discourage her individuality.
MEZOTI: I like bugs.
JANEWAY: Well done. Let me know before you take up beekeeping.
CHAKOTAY: What have we got here?
NAOMI: It's Kataris.
TORRES: Your father's planet.
NAOMI: I've been learning all about it.
SEVEN: Naomi programmed the geophysical and atmospheric conditions.
CHAKOTAY: There's quite a storm in those mountains.
NAOMI: The Arpasian range is known for high winds and hail.
JANEWAY: I'll remember to bring my coat. Now this looks impressive.
ICHEB: It's a high-resolution gravimetric sensor array.
TORRES: Ambitious.
ICHEB: It'll augment our ability to scan for the neutrino flux associated with wormholes. It could help Voyager find a faster way home.
SEVEN: The engineering principles are sound.
JANEWAY: I expected these projects to be interesting, but this is truly exceptional.
ICHEB: Thank you, Captain. I am very interested in astrophysics.
JANEWAY: Well, you've obviously got a knack for it. Well done.
TORRES: How did you think of scanning for neutrino fluctuations?
ICHEB: I've been studying Starfleet records.
JANEWAY: He's a remarkable young man.
SEVEN: He hopes to earn a permanent posting in Astrometrics one day.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid that won't be possible.
SEVEN: Captain, the boy has a unique talent.
JANEWAY: It's not a question of merit. We've made contact with his parents, and I've set a course for their planet.
ICHEB: My scanner is calibrated to pick up changes in neutrino trajectories.
SEVEN: That's good news.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: You've exceeded your scheduled time here by one hour.
ICHEB: I'm almost finished.
SEVEN: Your work will have to wait. There's something we need to discuss.
ICHEB: Look at this. It's a star forming in the Orpisay nebula.
SEVEN: The Orpisay nebula is out of range of our sensors.
ICHEB: I increased the resolution of the long range scanners.
SEVEN: Impressive.
ICHEB: When I was on the Cube, I never thought about what was outside. Pulsars, quasars, nebulas. But here in this lab, I feel I can see the entire galaxy. What did you want to talk to me about? You said there was something we needed to discuss.
SEVEN: Yes, that's correct. It's time for you to regenerate.

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Come in.
SEVEN: I'd like the data you've collected on Icheb's species so I can prepare him for re-assimilation.
JANEWAY: Maybe we could refer to it as getting reacquainted with his family.
SEVEN: If you prefer.
JANEWAY: I'll transfer the files down to Astrometrics.
SEVEN: Thank you.
JANEWAY: How'd he take the news? You haven't told him.
SEVEN: No.
JANEWAY: Why not?
SEVEN: It won't be easy for him to accept. He's adapted to life on Voyager.
JANEWAY: And you've adapted to having him here.
SEVEN: My feelings are irrelevant.
JANEWAY: Are they? Would you like me to tell him?
SEVEN: It's my responsibility, but I am uncertain how to proceed.
JANEWAY: Well, you've already helped him make one difficult transition. How did you do that?
SEVEN: By giving him the benefit of my own experiences. Encouraging him to be resilient in the face of obstacles.
JANEWAY: Sounds like a good strategy.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Is your alcove malfunctioning?
ICHEB: I'm calculating neutrino trajectories.
SEVEN: You need to regenerate.
ICHEB: Very well.
SEVEN: Wait. We've located your parents. Voyager is due to arrive at their planet tomorrow.
ICHEB: Do I have to stay with them?
SEVEN: They're your parents.
ICHEB: I don't remember them.
SEVEN: After my parents were assimilated I never saw them again. You're fortunate to have this chance.
ICHEB: What about the others?
SEVEN: We haven't been able to locate their families yet.
ICHEB: That's not what I mean. What will happen to them if I leave? They depend on me.
SEVEN: They'll adapt.
ICHEB: I'll never see you again?
SEVEN: I've been studying Brunali culture. It's very different from what you've become accustomed to on Voyager.
ICHEB: In what way?
SEVEN: They're an agrarian society. Their technological resources are limited.
ICHEB: Are they capable of space travel?
SEVEN: Yes, but most of their vessels were destroyed by the Borg.
ICHEB: How will I continue my studies?
SEVEN: I don't know.
SEVEN: Icheb.

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm detecting scattered enclaves on the northern continent, all with populations of fewer than ten thousand.
TUVOK: Judging from the residual gamma radiation, it appears they've suffered numerous Borg attacks over the past decade.
SEVEN: That's not surprising. There's a Borg transwarp conduit less than a light year away.
PARIS: Not exactly prime real estate.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, run continuous scans for Borg activity. Tom, put us into synchronous orbit.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Seven. You'd better get Icheb.

[Sickbay]
EMH: According to these scans, you're in perfect health.
ICHEB: Then why does my stomach feel so strange?
EMH: Oh, I should have known. You've got butterflies in there.
ICHEB: I never assimilated butterflies.
EMH: It's an expression used to describe anxiety or apprehension, both of which are perfectly natural reactions for someone about to meet his long lost parents. If it's any comfort, I'm sure they're just as nervous about meeting you.
ICHEB: Parents are irrelevant.
EMH: Really. Do you think Naomi's mother is irrelevant to her?
ICHEB: I have Seven of Nine to assist me in my education. I have you to care for my medical needs.
EMH: Your parents can nurture you in ways this crew can't. They can explain the Brunali culture, share their experiences with you.
ICHEB: You didn't have parents.
EMH: No, but
ICHEB: You adapted to serve a vital function about this vessel, forged relationships with its crew, all without the benefit of parents.
EMH: I had my programming to fall back on.
ICHEB: And how would your programming respond if you were asked to live with strangers?
SEVEN: Are you damaged?
EMH: He's fine. I was just giving him a last minute check-up.
SEVEN: It's time.
EMH: The butterflies will go away.

[Brunali settlement]
JANEWAY: Hello. I'm Captain Janeway.
YIFAY: Icheb.
LEUCON: You've grown.
SEVEN: He spent several months in a Borg maturation chamber.
JANEWAY: This is Seven of Nine.
YIFAY: That's a Borg designation, isn't it?
SEVEN: Like your son, I was liberated from the Collective.
JANEWAY: Seven has been instrumental in helping Icheb make his transition.
LEUCON: Then we're very grateful to you. I'm Leucon, Icheb's father. This is his mother, Yifay.
YIFAY: How are you?
ICHEB: Fine.
YIFAY: Do these hurt you?
ICHEB: No.
LEUCON: We're very happy to have you back with us. Mala, Remi, Yivel.
YIVEL: Welcome home, Icheb.
ICHEB: I would like to return to Voyager now.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Thank you for coming.
LEUCON: Where's Icheb?
JANEWAY: I thought it might be better if we talked ourselves first.
LEUCON: What exactly is there to discuss?
JANEWAY: How to make this transition easier for your son. Please, sit down.
YIFAY: It won't be easy for him to give up the luxuries of your ship.
SEVEN: It's more than a question of luxuries. Icheb has special medical needs.
LEUCON: We have a physician in our settlement.
JANEWAY: We should arrange for him to consult with our Doctor.
SEVEN: He also requires daily regeneration.
JANEWAY: I'm sure you can adapt some of our technology to make that possible.
SEVEN: What about his educational requirements?
YIFAY: Our children go to school.
SEVEN: Will he be able to continue his studies in Astrometrics and spatial harmonics?
LEUCON: If Icheb has an aptitude for science, I'm sure he'll find that we have a great deal to teach him.
SEVEN: For example?
LEUCON: We've developed sophisticated techniques in agricultural genetics which allow us to grow crops in an inhospitable environment.
SEVEN: Icheb has expressed no interest in agriculture.
JANEWAY: I'm sure once he's been exposed to the subject, he'll find it quite challenging.
SEVEN: There's still the issue of his safety.
YIFAY: We're perfectly capable of protecting our son.
SEVEN: Your proximity to a Borg conduit makes you extremely vulnerable. I'm curious if you've ever considered relocating.
JANEWAY: Seven.
LEUCON: No, it's all right, Captain. This planet is our home. We will never leave it. We will defend it against the Borg or anyone else who threatens us.
SEVEN: Your courage is admirable but unrealistic.
JANEWAY: Wait for me in my ready room.
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: Now.
JANEWAY: I apologize for her behavior. She and Icheb have grown very close, but that's no excuse for rudeness.
LEUCON: We'd like to see our son now.
JANEWAY: Please be patient. If we rush things, your next encounter with him may not go any better than the last. Stay aboard Voyager for a while. It'll give Icheb a chance to get to know you in an environment that's familiar to him. I'll have Neelix do everything he can to make you comfortable while you're here.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Your attitude is making a difficult situation worse.
SEVEN: I was simply attempting to insure Icheb's well-being.
JANEWAY: By insulting his parents?
SEVEN: Those issues needed to be discussed.
JANEWAY: You could have done it with a little more tact.
SEVEN: Perhaps, but that doesn't alter the fact that those individuals may not be suitable guardians.
JANEWAY: Those individuals are his mother and father.
SEVEN: Which is no guarantee that they'll be able to care for him. He's far more likely to flourish if he remains on Voyager.
SEVEN: Are you ordering him off the ship?
JANEWAY: That's not what I said.
SEVEN: So that he can be assimilated again?
JANEWAY: What makes you so sure that's going to happen?
SEVEN: They shouldn't remain on that planet.
JANEWAY: It's their home.
SEVEN: It's not worth protecting.
JANEWAY: Who are you to decide that?
SEVEN: Anyone who values their own goals over the safety of their children is irresponsible.
JANEWAY: Are we talking about Icheb's parents, or yours?
SEVEN: Both.
JANEWAY: It's not like you to admit to something like that.
SEVEN: It would be naive for me to claim objectivity in this case. But I'm not prepared to return Icheb to parents who may be as careless as my own.
JANEWAY: I know what it's like to feel protective towards someone you've helped through a difficult period, but Icheb is an individual now. You have to give him a chance to form his own opinions.
SEVEN: If I do, and he decides to remain on Voyager?
JANEWAY: Then it'll be my problem.

[Cargo Bay two]
MEZOTI: Is your mother pretty? What are they like?
ICHEB: I'm busy.
NAOMI: I never met my father.
AZAN: I don't remember ours.
REBI: Neither do I.
NAOMI: Are you going to stay with them?
MEZOTI: If you leave, who is going to help us with our science projects?
ICHEB: If you don't stop asking questions I'm going to put all of you in a cargo container and transport you back to the Borg.
SEVEN: Come with me.
ICHEB: Where?
SEVEN: To dinner with your parents.
ICHEB: I'm working.
SEVEN: You can continue your work after the meal.
ICHEB: I don't have anything to talk about with them.
SEVEN: Then it will be a very quiet evening.
ICHEB: I'm not going.
SEVEN: Your attendance is not optional.

[Mess hall]
SEVEN: Enjoy your meal.
YIFAY: Come, sit down.
ICHEB: I prefer to stand.
YIFAY: Mister Neelix let me use his galley to prepare some poma.
ICHEB: I'm not hungry.
YIFAY: It was your favorite food when you were little.
ICHEB: I'm not little anymore.
YIFAY: No. No, you're not.
LEUCON: Your mother worked hard on that meal. Couldn't you at least try it?
LEUCON: Good, isn't it.
NEELIX: Nice to see the family back together again, isn't it?
YIFAY: When you were little, you would only eat the inside

[Brunali settlement]
LEUCON: The Borg didn't leave us much to work with but we didn't need much, just a little ingenuity. Everything you see, we built with our own hands. Our homes, cultivation bays
ICHEB: What's this?
LEUCON: A genetic re-sequencer. We use it to alter the DNA of certain plants to conform with environmental conditions.
ICHEB: You built this as well?
LEUCON: We adapted parts from damaged vessels. Nothing's been wasted.
ICHEB: Efficient.
LEUCON: Efficiency's one attribute we share with the Borg. In our case, it's a necessity. I know our settlement seems primitive compared to Voyager, but I promise you, that will change.
ICHEB: What about space travel?
LEUCON: Someday we'll have ships that rival Voyager, but we need the dedication of young people like you to help us.
YIVEL: Icheb! How are you?
ICHEB: Well, thank you.
YIVEL: Maybe later you can join us up on the field for a game of pala.
ICHEB: I don't remember how to play.
YIVEL: It will come back to you.
LEUCON: You used to be quite an athlete. You can make a difference here, Icheb.
ICHEB: I don't know anything about agriculture or genetics.
LEUCON: It won't take you long to learn. Not with a mind like yours.
SEVEN: It's time to return to Voyager.
ICHEB: I am staying here tonight.
SEVEN: They don't have a regeneration unit.
LEUCON: We're going to have to install one eventually. Might as well do it now.
SEVEN: As far as I am aware, he hasn't decided to remain here yet.
LEUCON: But he has asked to stay tonight.
SEVEN: Return with me to the ship. We'll prepare a regeneration unit.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: I've adapted this neural transceiver to interface with the portable regenerator. It has enough power to complete one full cycle.
LEUCON: We'll have to devise a way of recharging it.
SEVEN: If Icheb decides to stay.
LEUCON: My wife and I appreciate everything you've done for our son. It's obvious you care about him.
SEVEN: He's a unique individual.
LEUCON: Yes, he is. To get him back is, well, a miracle.
SEVEN: How was he taken?
LEUCON: Since the Borg first attacked us, we've taken great pains to hide whatever new technology we develop.
SEVEN: So the passing cubes won't be attracted to your planet.
LEUCON: Unfortunately, we haven't always been successful. One morning, about four years ago, Icheb heard me talking about a new fertilization array we'd constructed in the lower field. He wanted to see it. I told him I'd take him the next day but he was impatient, the way boys can be. I never even realized he'd wandered off when the alarm sounded. It turns out the Borg were just as interested in our new technology as Icheb was. They took him, and assimilated everyone in the area. If only I'd kept a closer eye on him.
SEVEN: Icheb has a mind of his own.
LEUCON: But still, it's hard not to blame myself. Your parents must've felt the same way when they lost you.
SEVEN: My parents were with me when the Borg attacked.
LEUCON: I can't imagine what that must have been like for them, watching their daughter being assimilated. Helpless to defend her.
SEVEN: It's important that Icheb regenerate for six uninterrupted hours.
LEUCON: I understand.
SEVEN: He may resist. He doesn't like to waste time. I've had to contend with his lack of patience as well.

[Brunali settlement - Icheb's home]
LEUCON: There's a star called Kelsin Three. To the west is the Orlitus Cluster. There, just above it, when you connect those six stars, they form what we call the Great Horn.
ICHEB: I see it.
YIFAY: You inherited your love of the stars from your father.
LEUCON: Being on that starship, you've learned much more about astronomy than I have. Our little window can't compare to Voyager's Astrometrics lab.
ICHEB: No, but it's nice.
YIFAY: You see? We have everything we need right here. A warm fire, good food that we grow ourselves, and people who love us.
LEUCON: Icheb has people on Voyager who love him, too.
YIFAY: You've grown attached to the crew on that ship, haven't you?
ICHEB: They've provided for me, given me opportunities.
LEUCON: They're good people. People who've experienced hardship themselves. Seven of Nine told me about your science project. She said it might prove very useful.
ICHEB: It's designed to detect wormholes.
LEUCON: How will that benefit them?
ICHEB: It may help them find a way back to Earth.
YIFAY: Why is that so important to them?
ICHEB: It's their home.
LEUCON: Interesting, isn't it?
ICHEB: What?
LEUCON: With all their technology, their opportunity to explore the galaxy, the thing they want most is to get home.

[Astrometrics lab]
ICHEB: Good morning.
SEVEN: Did you regenerate successfully?
ICHEB: Yes, and I slept under the stars. You should try it.
SEVEN: You weren't in class this morning. The others missed you.
ICHEB: I was helping my father. There is something we need to discuss.
SEVEN: What is it? You've decided to stay with them.
ICHEB: Yes.
SEVEN: You're certain?
ICHEB: This is my home. I have a responsibility to help them rebuild it.
SEVEN: I'll inform the captain.
ICHEB: Thank you.
SEVEN: I'm sure you'll want to say goodbye to the other children.

[Transporter room]
SEVEN: Inside you'll find PADDs containing data on a variety of subjects that will allow you to continue your studies. I've also included a high-resolution telescope. It's a poor substitute for Astrometric sensors.
ICHEB: I will use it every day.
JANEWAY: Goodbye, Icheb, and good luck.
ICHEB: Thank you, Captain. I hope you find a way home.

[Cargo Bay two]
COMPUTER: Warning. Regeneration cycle incomplete.
SEVEN: What is it?
MEZOTI: I can't regenerate.
COMPUTER: Warning. Regeneration cycle incomplete.
SEVEN: Explain.
MEZOTI: I miss Icheb.
SEVEN: So do I, but we'll adapt. Now return to your alcove.
MEZOTI: If you find my parents, will I have to go with them?
SEVEN: We'll discuss that when and if the time comes.
MEZOTI: I hope you don't find them.
SEVEN: Regenerate.
MEZOTI: Seven?
SEVEN: Yes?
MEZOTI: What if the Borg try to assimilate Icheb again?
SEVEN: His people lack resources. The Borg have little reason to return to their planet.
MEZOTI: But what if Icheb's on a ship?
SEVEN: Unlikely.
MEZOTI: He was on a ship last time.
SEVEN: You're mistaken. He was on the surface when he was assimilated.
MEZOTI: No, he wasn't. A class one transport was detected in grid six four nine. One lifeform. Species, Brunali.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: This better be important.
SEVEN: It is.
JANEWAY: Sorry, I don't read Borg. You'll have to translate.
SEVEN: This is tactical data from the Cube where we found the children. It says that Icheb was alone aboard an unarmed transport vessel when the Borg took him.
JANEWAY: Oh, why are you telling me this at oh three hundred hours?
SEVEN: Icheb's father told me the boy was assimilated on the planet's surface.
JANEWAY: Is it possible you misunderstood?
SEVEN: No. He was very specific.
JANEWAY: That Cube was disabled by a deadly pathogen. It suffered extensive damage. Isn't it possible these records were corrupted?
SEVEN: Perhaps, but I found another inconsistency in Leucon's story. He told me Icheb was assimilated four years ago but further analysis indicates the Borg attacked three times during the last decade. Nine years ago, six years ago, and again last year.
JANEWAY: All right. Let's assume your information is accurate. What does it prove?
SEVEN: His father was lying.
JANEWAY: Why would he do that?
SEVEN: I'm not certain, but we have an obligation to find out.
JANEWAY: What are you proposing?
SEVEN: That we return to the planet, demand an explanation.
JANEWAY: Those people have been through enough. Do we really need to interrogate them?
SEVEN: We have a responsibility to ensure Icheb's safety.
JANEWAY: He chose to stay with his parents.
SEVEN: Maybe he didn't have all the information.
JANEWAY: Just because they weren't completely candid with you doesn't mean they're unfit parents. At some point, you have to let go.
SEVEN: I know what you're thinking, that I'm having emotional difficulty accepting my separation from Icheb and you're correct. But if there's a possibility he's in danger, even a remote one, I have to do whatever I can to protect him. If I don't, I'll be no better than my own parents.

[Brunali settlement - Icheb's home]
LEUCON: Couldn't we at least wait a few days?
YIFAY: What would that accomplish?
LEUCON: He's just getting settled.
YIFAY: The longer we wait the harder it'll be for everyone. You know that.
LEUCON: Why do it at all? There's nothing compelling us to go through with it.
YIFAY: It's what he was born for.
LEUCON: Hasn't he been through enough? Why not give him a chance at an ordinary life?
YIFAY: He's not an ordinary child.
LEUCON: No, but he can help us in other ways. He's bright. He's hardworking.
YIFAY: Leucon, his return was a gift. We can't waste it.
LEUCON: I don't want to lose him a second time.
YIFAY: To survive, we all have to make sacrifices. You taught me that.
ICHEB: We won three games in a row.
YIFAY: Sit down, Icheb. We need to talk. You know that you're very important to us.
ICHEB: Yes.
YIFAY: What you don't know is why.
ICHEB: What do you mean? What is that?
YIFAY: If you relax, it won't hurt you.
ICHEB: Father?
YIFAY: You'd better hold him.
ICHEB: What are you doing to me?
ICHEB: No!
YIFAY: Prepare the launch.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Hail them.
LEUCON (screen): We didn't expect to see you again, Captain.
JANEWAY: We'd like to ask you a few questions, if you don't mind.
YIFAY (screen): Questions?
SEVEN: Regarding Icheb and the circumstances of his assimilation.
LEUCON (screen): We've already discussed that.
SEVEN: The story you told me was inconsistent with our data.
YIFAY (screen): We don't owe you any explanations.
JANEWAY: In that case, I'd like to talk to Icheb.
LEUCON (screen): He's not here.
SEVEN: Where is he?
YIFAY (screen): That's not your concern.
JANEWAY: Scan for his bio-signs.
TUVOK: He is not in the settlement.
SEVEN: I'm detecting a Brunali transport vessel, distance, nine million kilometers. It's heading for the coordinates of the transwarp conduit.
CHAKOTAY: According to these readings that ship is traveling at warp nine point eight.
PARIS: It only looks that way. It's been designed to emit a false warp signature strong enough to penetrate subspace.
SEVEN: They're using it as bait to attract the Borg.
JANEWAY: Icheb's on that vessel, isn't he?
YIFAY (screen): He's fighting for his people.
SEVEN: Alone, on an unarmed transport?
LEUCON (screen): We don't have particle weapons or powerful starships at our disposal. We're forced to use the only resource we have.
SEVEN: Your children?
YIFAY (screen): No. Our genetic expertise.
JANEWAY: Icheb's not bait. He's a weapon. The first Cube that captured him was infected by a pathogen. Icheb was the carrier, wasn't he?
LEUCON (screen): Every time we try to rebuild, begin to make progress, the Borg come and take it away from us.
JANEWAY: Tom, set a course for that transport vessel. Full impulse.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
LEUCON (screen): You have no right to interfere.
YIFAY (screen): We're trying to save our civilization.
SEVEN: By taking away Icheb's future.
YIFAY (screen): If we don't stop the Borg, the Brunali have no future.
LEUCON (screen): Captain, a Borg ship will emerge from that conduit at any moment. You'll be destroyed.
JANEWAY: We'll take our chances. End transmission. Red alert. Battle stations.
PARIS: We're coming within range, Captain.
KIM: I'm picking up Icheb's life signs. Bio-scans indicate he's unconscious.
CHAKOTAY: Transport him to Sickbay.
SEVEN: I can't. There's some kind of interference.
TUVOK: It's the conduit. By my estimate, a Borg vessel will emerge in less than forty seconds.
JANEWAY: Transfer auxiliary power to the transporters.
SEVEN: I still can't establish a lock, not at this distance.
TUVOK: Thirty seconds.
JANEWAY: Tom, get us closer to that ship.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
TUVOK: The conduit's opening. Twenty seconds.
JANEWAY: Seven?
SEVEN: Still out of range.
JANEWAY: You heard her, Tom.
PARIS: When that Borg ship comes through I'm going to have a hell of a time getting away from it.
JANEWAY: One problem at a time.
TUVOK: Ten seconds, nine, eight.
SEVEN: I've got a lock.
TUVOK: Seven.
SEVEN: Transport in progress.
TUVOK: Five.
SEVEN: He's in Sickbay.
TUVOK: Three, two, one.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here, maximum
JANEWAY: Target their tractor beam generator.
TUVOK: Phasers targeted.
JANEWAY: Fire.
TUVOK: No effect.
BORG (voiceover): We are the Borg. You will be assimilated. Resistance is futile.
SEVEN: Perhaps not. There is a way to get a weapon through their shields.
JANEWAY: I'm listening.
SEVEN: Transport a photon torpedo to the Brunali vessel. Set it to detonate soon as it's inside the Sphere.
TUVOK: That will occur in approximately twenty seconds. However, Voyager will be inside less than three seconds later.
JANEWAY: Tom, full reverse thrusters. It might buy us a couple more seconds. Do it.
SEVEN: Transport complete. Detonation in ten, nine.
SEVEN: Five.
JANEWAY: Tom, go to warp on my mark.
SEVEN: Three, two.
CHAKOTAY: All hands, brace for impact.
JANEWAY: Now, Mister Paris!
TUVOK: The Borg vessel has taken heavy damage. They are not pursuing.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Are you saying his parents re-infected him?
EMH: No, they merely sedated him.
SEVEN: I don't understand.
EMH: He was genetically engineered to produce the pathogen from birth.
JANEWAY: Bred to kill Borg.
SEVEN: Is he in danger?
EMH: I can suppress the pathogen. He'll be fine, physically.
JANEWAY: He's going to need help coming to terms with what's happened.
SEVEN: Captain, I
JANEWAY: Use your maternal instincts. They worked before.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I thought you were studying spatial harmonics.
ICHEB: My parents suggested I might have an aptitude for genetics as well.
SEVEN: I see. What have you learned?
ICHEB: This is the genome of a typical Brunali male and this is my DNA. They're nearly identical, but do you notice the differences in the third, thirteenth and seventeenth chromosomes?
SEVEN: Yes.
ICHEB: My parents made microgenetic alterations so I would produce the pathogen. Quite ingenious.
SEVEN: It's also barbaric.
ICHEB: They were trying to defend themselves, their way of life. Preserve their species.
SEVEN: I know how difficult it is to acknowledge your parents' faults, but what they did was wrong. You don't have to forgive them.
ICHEB: Do you think they will ever forgive me?
SEVEN: For what?
ICHEB: I could have destroyed that Sphere. I failed them.
SEVEN: You would have been reassimilated.
ICHEB: I know, but
SEVEN: But what?
ICHEB: Maybe it was my destiny.
SEVEN: Maybe. In the future you may choose to fight the Borg, but you'll do it in your own way. You're an individual, and you have the right to determine your own destiny. It's time to regenerate.
ICHEB: And if I prefer to continue studying?
SEVEN: It's your decision.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Seven of Nine's shipwide efficiency analysis.
JANEWAY: Did we get a passing grade?
CHAKOTAY: Barely. She wants to present it to the senior staff.
JANEWAY: Put her on the schedule.
CHAKOTAY: We'll be passing by a class T cluster in the next couple of days. Gas giants, radiogenic sources. I'm not sure it's worth altering course.
JANEWAY: At the very least we should send the Delta Flyer for a look. And let's get a full range of sensor scans as we get closer.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We'll go to a level three analysis of the cluster. Tom, get the Flyer ready and assemble an away team. Harry, start continuous scans.
KIM: Kim to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN (voiceover): Proceed, Ensign.
KIM: Any chance you could increase radiogenic resolution in the long range sensors?

[Astrometrics lab]
KIM (voiceover): The Captain wants to get a cleaner look at that cluster coming up off starboard.
SEVEN: Acknowledged. Take these specifications to Lieutenant Torres.
CELES: Right away.

[Turbolift]
CELES: Deck eleven.

[Engineering]
TORRES: What's our Borg Queen want now? We need to route at least another five terawatts to the sensor array.

[Turbolift]
ENGINEER: Deck fifteen.

[Plasma relay room]
ENGINEER: Hello.
ENGINEER: Sorry to interrupt.
HARREN: I'm about to disprove Schlezholt's theory of multiple big bangs. Of course I had to demolish Wang's second postulate to do it.
ENGINEER: Power transfer requisition.
HARREN: You're standing in the way of cosmological history.
ENGINEER: The cosmos is sixteen billion years old. It can wait another few minutes.
HARREN: Schlezholt would thank you for the reprieve.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 53753.2. Long range scans of the T cluster have indicated a number of tantalizing anomalies. The away team should have a field day. Who knows, I may even join them myself.

[Celes' quarters]
CELES: Billy, Billy, wake up.
TELFER (voiceover): What do you want?
CELES: I need help.
TELFER (voiceover): Good night.
CELES: Billy, don't you dare go back to sleep.

[Telfer's quarters]
TELFER: What's the problem?

[Celes' quarters]
CELES: I'm in trouble.
TELFER (voiceover): Go

[Telfer's quarters]
TELFER: To sleep.
CELES (voiceover): Help me first?
TELFER: With what?
CELES (voiceover): This level three sensor analysis. I've got four hours of subspace infrared to interpret.
TELFER: Long range scans on that cluster up ahead?

[Celes' quarters]
CELES: Yes.
TELFER (voiceover): It's too complicated

[Telfer's quarters]
TELFER: To do over the comm. Either we meet in the mess hall or we wait until tomorrow.
CELES (voiceover): I don't want to get dressed,

[Celes' quarters]
CELES: And it can't wait until tomorrow.

[Telfer's quarters]
TELFER: Your only options.

[Briefing room]
SEVEN: I've given Operations an efficiency rating of seventy six out of a possible one hundred.
KIM: Not exactly flying colors.
SEVEN: The crewmen you assigned to the night shift are frequently left with little to do once the ship's course has been locked in.
EMH: The devil finds work for idle hands.
SEVEN: Religious metaphors are irrelevant. Perhaps you should consider assigning them additional tasks.
TORRES: What's this I'm guilty of? Failure to utilize expertise?
SEVEN: Crewman Mortimer Harren. He has five advanced degrees in theoretical cosmology, but you've assigned him to the plasma relay room. His talents could be put to better use.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna?
TORRES: Believe me, I've tried. When I give him more responsibility he doesn't do the work. Harren wants to be down on deck fifteen. It gives him more time to repostulate the origins of the universe.
SEVEN: As you can see, security is functioning at near-perfect efficiency. However, Commander, if you arrange the phasers in the weapons lockers so that the smaller rifles were in front, they could be more easily removed in the event of an emergency.
TUVOK: I'll look into it.
SEVEN: Crewman William Telfer.
EMH: Billy. He certainly ruined my score.
SEVEN: He visits the Sickbay almost once a week complaining of illness. Invariably you examine him and find nothing wrong.
EMH: Mister Telfer is a hypochondriac. I'd treat him for it, but he's afraid of medication.
JANEWAY: Have you tried counseling?
EMH: He's afraid of that, too. All I can do is scan him and offer him reassurance.
SEVEN: Wasting your time and medical resources.
KIM: What about Astrometrics? Looks like you could use some improvement yourself, Seven.
SEVEN: You are correct, unfortunately. Tal Celes, sensor analyst grade three. Her work must be constantly double checked. She should be removed from Astrometrics and reassigned elsewhere. Perhaps to Engineering.
TORRES: Forget it. I've got my own problems to fix, remember?
JANEWAY: That'll be all, Seven, thank you. Dismissed.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: They've never been on an away mission. Mortimer Harren, William Telfer, Tal Celes. None of them.
CHAKOTAY: They get off the ship whenever we have general leave.
JANEWAY: I mean a working away mission.
CHAKOTAY: Harren never volunteers. Celes can't get past the proficiency requirements. And Telfer always seems to get a note from his doctor.
JANEWAY: Something's got to be done about this.
CHAKOTAY: What can we do? There are always a few who don't make it past their first year on a starship. Normally, they're reassigned. But in our case, maybe we should relieve them of duty and let them pursue their own interests. It certainly wouldn't hurt general efficiency.
JANEWAY: They aren't drones, Chakotay. We can't just deactivate them. Is the Delta Flyer ready?
CHAKOTAY: Flight-checked with provisions for a seventy two hour away mission. What have you got in mind, Captain?
JANEWAY: Three people have slipped through the cracks on my ship. That makes it my problem.

[Mess hall]
TELFER: The analytical aspects of the subspace infrared algorithm are fourfold.
CELES: Unfortunately, I have a threefold brain.
TELFER: You just have to break it down. Think of it as four smaller algorithms.
CELES: Okay, but what's the sequence?
JANEWAY: It's Zero G Is Fun. As you were. Zeta particle derivation, Gamma wave frequency, Ion distribution, Flow rate of positrons. Z.G.I.F. Zero G Is Fun. That's how you remember the sequence.
CELES: Thank you, Captain. I'll try.
JANEWAY: Good, because where we're headed, you're going to need it. I'll be briefing you this afternoon in Astrometrics. We leave first thing in the morning.

[Turbolift]
JANEWAY: Deck fifteen.

[Deck 15]
MITCHELL: Captain on the deck!
JANEWAY: At ease. Junction room sixteen?
MITCHELL: Over there, Captain.
JANEWAY: Of course. Crewman Mitchell, how have you been?
MITCHELL: Never better, ma'am. Yourself?
JANEWAY: Not bad. Not bad at all.
MITCHELL: Ah, to the left, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Thank you.

[Junction room 16]
JANEWAY: Crewman Harren.
HARREN: Captain Janeway, are you lost?
JANEWAY: I was, for a minute. I'll be briefing you this afternoon.
HARREN: Well, there's been a mistake.
JANEWAY: Excuse me?
HARREN: You have me assigned to an away mission. I have my duties here. I prefer not to leave my post.
JANEWAY: Ensign Culhane will cover for you. The pre-flight schedule is all there.
HARREN: If this is charity, Captain, I don't want it.
JANEWAY: I didn't ask you what you want. I'm taking the Delta Flyer on an astronomical survey mission and your expertise is needed.
HARREN: What do you know about my expertise?
JANEWAY: As much as I need to.
HARREN: Well then, you might be interested to know that I'm about to disprove Schlezholt's theory of multiple big bangs.
JANEWAY: Really. Wang's second postulate has more lives than a cat, doesn't it? Once you think you've eliminated it, bam, it pops up again. I'll give you a hand if you'd like, when the away mission is over.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: Once we reach the cluster, we'll drop out of warp and maintain one quarter impulse on the sweep through the protostars. I'll be piloting the Delta Flyer. Celes, you're going to run an ongoing sensor analysis, providing data for your colleagues. Mister Harren, you'll be looking at subspace particle decay for anything new we might learn about star formation. And Mister Telfer, your job will be to look for signs of life. A long shot in this environment, but if it's out there, I'm sure you'll find it. You'll have the rest of the evening to familiarize yourselves with the mission.
TELFER: Excuse me, Captain. If we find a planet, we're not planning on exploring the surface, are we?
HARREN: That's a stellar nursery. Any planets will be gas giants.
TELFER: They may have moons.
JANEWAY: Don't worry. We'll run a complete scan for pathogens before we set foot anywhere. And the Delta Flyer is fully equipped to deal with medical emergencies. We'll be fine. Shuttlebay one, oh six hundred hours. Dismissed.
SEVEN: Celes is unreliable. Her sensor analyzes will be full of errors. You could be putting your lives at risk.
JANEWAY: Don't worry Seven, I'll check her work.
SEVEN: This mission could be better served with a more experienced crew.
JANEWAY: No, not this mission. Ever hear the tale of the Good Shepherd? If even one sheep strayed into the wilderness, the shepherd left the safety of the flock and went after it.
SEVEN: So you're intending to rescue them?
JANEWAY: In a manner of speaking. Maybe all it will take will be some personal attention from their Captain. Maybe something more. But I won't abandon a member of this crew, no matter what their problems might be.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: Oh, poor guy. Rotting away down on deck fifteen. Counting the years till we get out of this godforsaken quadrant. It's a shame he doesn't have a superior officer who cares.
TORRES: It's not my job to make everybody who works for me happy. Some people just don't want to fit in.
NEELIX: I'll bet you haven't said two words to him.
PARIS: Two words exactly. We collided in the corridor during a Borg attack. I said, excuse me. Since we were at Red alert and about to be destroyed, I think it was very considerate of me.
TORRES: Well, Mister Considerate, why don't you go over there right now and offer him some encouragement. His first away mission, I'm sure he could use it.
PARIS: Brushing up on the Delta Flyer specs?
HARREN: I'm not a mechanic.
PARIS: Oh. Then, what are you doing?
PARIS: Very interesting.
HARREN: What do you find most interesting about it?
PARIS: Your creative use of the minus sign.
HARREN: I see you have an appreciation for multivariate analysis. Maybe you missed your calling. It's a shame. I imagine it gets tedious up at the helm.
PARIS: I enjoy the view.
TORRES: Well?
PARIS: I invited him over to watch our television set tonight. You don't mind, do you?

[Celes' quarters]
TELFER (voiceover): Celes. Celes. Respond. Celes, respond.
CELES: You're not sick.
TELFER (voiceover): Yes, I am.
CELES: No, you're not.
TELFER (voiceover): Really

[Telfer's quarters]
TELFER: I am.
CELES (voiceover): We have to sleep.
TELFER: I can't go on this mission.
CELES (voiceover): Yes, you can.
TELFER: No, I can't.
CELES (voiceover): Yes.
TELFER: No.

[Celes' quarters]
CELES: Bye.

[Telfer's quarters]
TELFER: Wait!

[Sickbay]
TELFER: See?
EMH: It's nothing.
TELFER: It's a fever.
EMH: Your temperature is point two degrees above normal.
TELFER: That's right.
EMH: A typical deviation easily prompted by emotional stress.
TELFER: Or a multiphasic prion.
EMH: You have not been infected by a prion.
TELFER: They attach themselves to the mitochondrial walls and they just
EMH: I've already scanned you.
TELFER: You can barely see them.
EMH: They aren't there.
TELFER: If they migrate to my cell membranes while I'm on the away mission, they could rupture and I
EMH: Crewman, I am not giving you a medical excuse. Not this time. Try to get some sleep. You shouldn't even have a medical tricorder. Believe me, you'll be so caught up in the excitement of exploration there won't be any time for worrying about infections, mitochondrial or otherwise. There's nothing like an away mission to remind a person of why we're out here.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
JANEWAY: I'm going to one quarter impulse.
CELES: Should I start the sensor sweeps?
JANEWAY: We don't want to miss anything.
JANEWAY: Engine status?
HARREN: Within parameters. That wasn't us.
JANEWAY: Anything on sensors?
CELES: Point zero zero five fluctuation in the spatial continuum. It looks like simple background noise.
JANEWAY: I agree.
TELFER (voiceover): Anybody for lunch?
JANEWAY: Are you volunteering, William?
TELFER (voiceover): Yes, ma'am.
CELES: I'll help. What would you like, Captain?
JANEWAY: Mortimer?
HARREN: Even my mother didn't call me that.
JANEWAY: Well then, Mister Harren, are you hungry?
HARREN: No. Thank you.
JANEWAY: I'll have the pasta soup. It should be listed under Neelix six five one.
CELES: Maybe I'll try that, too.
JANEWAY: I'm sure you'll like it.
CELES: I'm sure I will. Thanks for the suggestion. I'd better get back there.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
CELES: Neelix six five one, two servings.
TELFER: Neelix six five one, two servings. What's wrong?
CELES: The captain checks every single thing I do.
TELFER: Oh, that's just standard procedure.
CELES: Then why isn't it standard procedure for you or Harren?
TELFER: Maybe she's giving you special attention.
CELES: Yeah, because she knows I need it. I wish I could go back to Voyager.
TELFER: Me too. There's always the escape pods.
CELES: Can you imagine?

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
JANEWAY: I understand you grew up on Vico Five. No wonder you became a cosmologist.
HARREN: Wildest sky in the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: So they say. I've never been there.
HARREN: Do you really believe that childhood environment is more important than genetically driven behavior patterns?
JANEWAY: Just making conversation.
HARREN: Conversation filled with unspoken assumptions, which I don't agree with. I'm a product of my nucleic acids. Where and how I was raised are beside the point. So if you're trying to understand me better, questions about my home planet are irrelevant.
JANEWAY: All right then. How's your thirteenth chromosome? Missing a couple of base pairs in gene one seventy eight?
HARREN: I signed on to Voyager because I needed a year of hands-on experience. It was a requirement for getting into the Institute of Cosmology on Orion One. If we hadn't gotten lost in the Delta Quadrant, I'd be there right now.
JANEWAY: Sorry to have delayed your career plans, but all of us have had our lives interrupted. That's the nature of space exploration. It's unpredictable.
HARREN: Which is why I don't like space exploration. Stumbling from star to star like a, a drunken insect careening toward a light source is not my idea of a dignified existence. Pure theory is all that concerns me.
JANEWAY: Well, I'm not trying to change that. I'm simply trying to get every member of my crew working to their full capacity. That includes you, Mister Harren.
HARREN: You don't feel responsible, Captain, for having three misfits aboard your ship? Well, if there's anything I can do to help relieve your guilt, please let me know.
JANEWAY: I'll keep that in mind.
HARREN: Maybe I will join my colleagues for lunch. All this exploration has given me an appetite.
JANEWAY: Computer, identify the source of that spatial fluctuation.
COMPUTER: Source unknown.
JANEWAY: Red alert! Aft section, report. Report!
CELES: Captain, are you all right?
JANEWAY: We need to get propulsion back online and figure out what hit us. What's out there?
CELES: I don't know, but whatever it was, it tore a plating section off the outer hull.
HARREN: Ninety percent of our antimatter's been neutralized. The reaction's cold.
TELFER: So much for warp drive.
HARREN: I'm bringing the impulse engines online, but they've been damaged. We'll be able to do one eighth impulse, no more.
TELFER: That should get us to the rendezvous point with Voyager in about ten years. Think they'll wait for us?
JANEWAY: Is the subspace transmitter online? Voyager, this is the Delta Flyer. We've been hit by an unknown phenomenon and taken heavy damage. We require immediate assistance. Repeat, we require immediate assistance. Transmit that continuously on all subspace frequencies. Anything on active scans?
CELES: Not yet.
HARREN: It was a dark-matter proto-comet.
JANEWAY: I read a paper on that phenomenon once.
HARREN: Written by me.
JANEWAY: Well, enlighten us, Mister Harren.
HARREN: I hypothesized that a tertiary product of stellar consolidation would be a comet-like assemblage of dark matter. It would be attracted to any source of antimatter and neutralize it upon contact.
TELFER: So one of these things detected the antimatter in our warp core?
HARREN: The term detected suggests a consciousness. This is a mindless astrophysical phenomenon, nothing more. We should eject our remaining antimatter or we could suffer another impact.
JANEWAY: I can't do that, not on the basis of an unproven hypothesis.
HARREN: The forces involved are non-trivial. If we're hit again, we could lose our entire outer hull.
JANEWAY: Eject the warp core and we lose any hope of getting warp drive back. I need more evidence, and right now sensors aren't talking.
HARREN: Maybe they are talking, but somebody doesn't know how to listen to them.
JANEWAY: You're out of line, crewman.
HARREN: This isn't the time to be worried about her feelings, Captain. We're in trouble.
CELES: Captain, that hull plate? It's less than ten kilometers away. Impact from a dark-matter body might have left a quantum signature in the alloys.
JANEWAY: That's the evidence we're looking for. Do we have transporters?
TELFER: Yes, I've locked onto the plate.
JANEWAY: Beam it directly to the aft section. Celes, you're with me. Continue the repairs.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
JANEWAY: No sign of burns or plasma residue. It seems to have been sheared off. Download this into the main computer.
CELES: Captain, I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: For what?
CELES: I thought that spatial fluctuation we ran into was background noise. Some noise.
JANEWAY: I saw the same sensor readings you did, and came to the same conclusion. You don't have to doubt yourself all the time.
CELES: Yes I do, and you should too. You're right to always be looking over my shoulder.
JANEWAY: We all make mistakes, even me.
CELES: Every day? Every time you report for duty? On Voyager it doesn't matter because nothing I do is that critical. Seven doesn't trust me with anything important. The crew is protected from my mistakes by the people around me, but out here I could get us killed.
JANEWAY: You went through Starfleet training courses.
CELES: I had to cram for every exam.
JANEWAY: At the Academy, I was infamous for my all-nighters.
CELES: Every night? Because that's what it took. That's the only way I made it through. Not to mention the sympathy votes. The conflict on Bajor worked in my favor. The Federation was so eager to have Bajorans in Starfleet that my instructors gave me the benefit of the doubt. So did you, when you accepted my application.
JANEWAY: You showed evidence of unconventional thinking. I liked that. Not everybody would have thought to retrieve that hull plating.
CELES: Well, just don't trust me with the analysis. I guarantee I'll get it wrong.
JANEWAY: Well, with that attitude, I'm sure you will.
CELES: This has nothing to do with attitude, Captain. You and I are wired differently. To you, this is nothing but data. To me, it, it's a monster with, with fangs and claws. In my nightmares, I am chased by algorithms. My brain just wasn't built to understand this.
JANEWAY: We can find you another post on Voyager.
CELES: There isn't another post on Voyager, not for me. Unless you need a waitress in the mess hall.
JANEWAY: You know, there's more to duty than the ability to manipulate algorithms. Everybody on Voyager has showed a courage far beyond what I could have expected. So have you.
CELES: If we were still in the Alpha Quadrant, would that be enough to keep me on board?
JANEWAY: I can't answer that.
CELES: I don't deserve to be on your ship, Captain. And I'm not really a part of Voyager. I just live there.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
HARREN: Pressure's increasing. The EPS relays are fused. Cut the plasma flow. Cut the plasma! I could have been killed! What's wrong with you?
TELFER: Everything.
HARREN: If you want something to fantasize about, try imagining how it'll feel if our hull is breached and we die of vacuum exposure. Our blood will vaporize and our cell membranes will rupture. Surely you know the symptoms better than I do.
TELFER: Let's not talk about it, all right?
HARREN: Nothing disagrees with me more than having to put theories into practical use, but there's no choice, so pay attention to what we're doing here. You can check yourself into Sickbay when we get back.
TELFER: And you can go back to deck fifteen.
HARREN: That's right, where I don't have to rely on you or your intellectually deficient friend.
TELFER: At least I have a friend. Don't you ever get lonely down there?
HARREN: In the company of my own thoughts? Never.
TELFER: I don't believe that. Spend some time with us when we get back. You might enjoy yourself.
HARREN: A hypothesis that would require testing. I'm a theoretician, remember?
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, Delta Flyer, stardate, 53764.3. We've been running on minimal power for six hours. Still no response to our distress call, and no answers from the computer on what hit us. For now, it looks like we're on our own.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
JANEWAY: Our scans of the hull fragment were inconclusive. We found some displaced positrons that could indicate a dark-matter impact.
TELFER: But could have been caused by something else.
HARREN: Proof enough.
JANEWAY: Not enough for me. Not enough to jettison the remaining antimatter. There's a gas giant only a few hours from our current position. T class, surrounded by orbital rings, including one that's radiogenic. We could use those particles to reinitialize our warp reaction.
TELFER: With ten percent of our antimatter left we'd only be able to make warp two, but it would be enough to get us back on the road.
JANEWAY: Set a course.
CELES: Another spatial fluctuation.
JANEWAY: Can you localize it?
CELES: It's somewhere within the distance of ten thousand kilometers. Another one closer, about seven thousand kilometers.
HARREN: It's being drawn toward our antimatter. Eject the core.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. All hailing frequencies. This is Captain Janeway of the Federation vessel Delta Flyer. We are on a mission of peaceful exploration. Please identify yourself.
TELFER: No response.
HARREN: Of course not. It's a natural phenomenon. Captain, we only have a few seconds.
JANEWAY: I'm firing a photon torpedo. There's enough antimatter in the detonation chamber to draw that proto-comet, if that's what it is.
TELFER: The torpedo's away. Distance, one thousand kilometers. One thousand five hundred.
CELES: No spatial disruptions.
JANEWAY: Find the source of that sound.
TELFER: Oh, no.
HARREN: That's not possible.
JANEWAY: Where is he?
CELES: I can't locate his bio-signature.
JANEWAY: He's not out there. He's not in space, not in subspace. It doesn't make sense.
TELFER: Inside me.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
JANEWAY: Activate the transporter. Try to get a lock on whatever's inside him. Tricorder isn't picking up anything.
TELFER: But I can feel it.
CELES: I can't get a lock. It's like something is there, but it's not there.
TELFER: Oh, it's there.
JANEWAY: Unfortunately, I have to agree.
HARREN: Obviously, whatever hit us was no proto-comet. I was wrong.
JANEWAY: Maybe you weren't, not entirely. Sensors can't scan it and transporters can't lock on to it. Maybe this is some kind of dark-matter lifeform.
HARREN: It's impossible. Molecules that complex would collapse under their own weight. They could never support life.
JANEWAY: It might be time to revise your theory. Where did they take you?
TELFER: I don't know. It was dark. God, I could feel breathing all around me.
JANEWAY: Did anyone try to communicate with you?
TELFER: I couldn't see. I tried to say something, but there wasn't enough air. I tried to move, but something was pressing down on me. Hypospray. Tetrovaline. It will put me out.
JANEWAY: If I sedate you, it could lower your immune response, and you need to stay conscious. Do you understand?
CELES: Billy, if it wanted to kill you it would have done it by now. It never would have sent you back here. Maybe it was trying to scan you or something.
TELFER: If it wanted to get to know me better, it should have just asked me out for a drink.
JANEWAY: Celes, keep an eye in him. Harren.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
JANEWAY: I'm setting a course for those rings. Shunt as much power as you can to the impulse engines.
HARREN: We never should have left Voyager.
JANEWAY: I've got news for you, crewman. Voyager isn't exactly a safe haven. We've been chased across the Quadrant by far worse than whatever's out there. The Vidiians, Species 8472, the Borg. But I guess if somebody's hiding down on deck fifteen they might not be aware of it.
HARREN: I wasn't meant to be an explorer.
JANEWAY: And I wasn't meant to guide a ship across an unknown Quadrant.
HARREN: Then we're both victims of circumstance.
JANEWAY: Oh, I've seen things I've never imagined. Grown closer to people than I ever thought possible. I wouldn't call myself a victim, and I wouldn't trade the last six years for anything.
HARREN: Then you've been deluded by the inexhaustible human capacity to avoid the truth. You're the one hiding, not me. I've got you three more percentage points of impulse.
JANEWAY: I'll take it. Setting a course. Isn't there any part of you that feels a bond with the rest of us? When we escape from the Borg or discover a new type of star, don't you feel some pride of accomplishment? When you're in the mess hall, alone at your table in the corner, don't you see the friendships around you and wish, even for a microsecond, you were part of them?
HARREN: You don't know me at all.
JANEWAY: No, but I'd like to. That was the whole point of this mission. But I guess it hasn't worked out like I'd planned.
HARREN: Incoming transmission.
JANEWAY: Source?
HARREN: It's a Starfleet frequency. Must be Voyager.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Voyager, this is the Delta Flyer. We've been hit by an unknown phenomenon and taken heavy damage. We require immediate assistance. Repeat, we require immediate assistance.
HARREN: Subspace echo.
JANEWAY: Maybe not. There's a point zero zero five deviation in the carrier wave.
HARREN: That's the same degree of spatial fluctuation left by our pursuers. They're sending our distress signal back to us.
JANEWAY: Modified. They might be trying to communicate.
HARREN: They're taunting us.
JANEWAY: Not necessarily. Try to adjust the universal translator for
CELES: Captain! He went right through the forcefield.
JANEWAY: Billy, what are you doing?
TELFER: It's activating my motor neurons. I can't make it stop. I'm sorry, Captain. You've got to stop it.
CELES: It's okay. Billy, it's okay. It's okay.
TELFER: It's in here!
HARREN: It's tapping into our systems.
JANEWAY: Wait. It may be trying to communicate.
HARREN: It's into our environmental controls. We've got to stop it.
JANEWAY: Hold your fire!
JANEWAY: What the hell is wrong with you?
HARREN: It was trying to kill us.
JANEWAY: You don't know that.
HARREN: We were at risk.
JANEWAY: I gave you a direct order.
HARREN: What if you were wrong?
TELFER: I could hear its thoughts.
JANEWAY: Explain.
TELFER: When it left me I could hear what it was thinking. Do not belong. That's what it said. Do not belong.
HARREN: We don't belong here.
CELES: Or it didn't belong in the Delta Flyer.
JANEWAY: Maybe that's why it was tapping into the environmental controls. It was trying to survive in a place it didn't belong.
HARREN: That's speculation.
JANEWAY: Based on direct observation. You murdered an alien being and destroyed any chance we had to make first contact.
CELES: We just lost another section of hull.
JANEWAY: How far are we from the gas giant?
CELES: Two hundred thousand kilometers.
JANEWAY: I'm taking the Flyer into the radiogenic ring. With any luck, they won't follow.
CELES: We can't survive in there for more than a few minutes.
JANEWAY: That should be enough to reinitialize the warp core.
JANEWAY: Start continuous transport of radiogenic particles directly into the reaction chamber. When it's approaching critical mass, let me know. Watch for any sign of pursuit. How are you doing?
TELFER: I always had this alarm in my head, Sort of an internal Red alert. It was like a warning system that would tell me I was sick or dying, or something. Mitochondrial prions, food poisoning, a head cold. It was always there.
JANEWAY: And now it's not?
TELFER: It's gone. I don't understand.
JANEWAY: Maybe I do. When I was a girl, I was afraid of the ocean. I liked to swim, but in a pool or a pond where I knew exactly what was beneath me. But in the open water, with no way to know what was down there? It scared me to death. It wasn't until my first year at the Academy, after I went through zero G training in the Coral Sea, that I finally got over it. I think you just came up from your first deep dive.
CELES: They're in pursuit.
CELES: Three minutes, twenty seconds to intercept.
HARREN: We'll need twice that to reinitialize warp reaction.
JANEWAY: Get into the escape pods.
CELES: Captain.
JANEWAY: Plot a course away from the planet. I'm going to fire a phaser volley and hopefully set off a chain reaction of the radiogenic particles. It might be enough to disable our friends.
TELFER: You'll be disabled, too.
JANEWAY: Not if I go to full thrusters and keep in front of the shock wave. If I don't make it, head for the L class moon in the next system. You could survive there for weeks if you have to. Enough time for Voyager to pick up your distress signal. Now get moving.
CELES: No. You'll have a better chance if we're with you.
JANEWAY: Go!
CELES: We might not have contributed much on Voyager, but what we do here matters. We're the crew here, and the crew does not abandon its Captain.
JANEWAY: All right, it's your choice.
HARREN: Then I'll be going alone.
JANEWAY: Good luck.
JANEWAY: Charge phaser banks. Stand by to divert all power to thrusters.
CELES: Escape pod one is occupied and ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: Launch pod one.
TELFER: Escape pod away.
JANEWAY: How close are our pursuers?
CELES: Sixty five seconds to intercept.
JANEWAY: Stand by to fire.
CELES: Captain, the escape pod is altering course. It's heading for the aliens.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Harren.

[Escape pod]
JANEWAY (voiceover): What are you doing?
HARREN: If they have to deal with me, it should give you a few more seconds to get away. That's my theory, anyway.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Resume your escape course now.
HARREN: It's too late for that.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
JANEWAY: You made a mistake, Harren. Don't make another one.
HARREN (voiceover): I'm done hiding, Captain.

[Escape pod]
HARREN: A few seconds of exposure to real life, maybe I'll understand what I've been missing.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
TELFER: He closed the channel.
JANEWAY: Get a transporter lock on that pod,
CELES: I can't. We're out of range.
JANEWAY: More power to the thrusters. Celes.
CELES: We're still not close enough.
TELFER: Thrusters at maximum.
CELES: Got him.
JANEWAY: Fire.
CELES: Shock wave approaching. Contact in four, three, two, one. More or less.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: My crew
CHAKOTAY: Easy. They're sleeping. No serious injuries. Everyone's all right, though you gave us a good scare for a while. We received your distress call. We found the Flyer drifting above a gas giant. You were all unconscious.
JANEWAY: Any sign of another vessel or some kind of entity?
CHAKOTAY: No. What happened?
JANEWAY: The good shepherd went after some lost sheep, and ran into a wolf.
CHAKOTAY: Did she find them?
JANEWAY: I think she did.

[Telsian mine]
MINER 1: You're late.
MINER 2: There was a problem with the pulse drills on level four.
MINER 1: They're going to be here any moment. I want to make a good impression.
MINER 2: You're certain we should be doing this?
MINER 1: Orek will be pleased that we took the initiative.
MINER 2: I hope you're right.
MINER 1: Welcome to Telsius.
DALA: Thank you. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway. This is Commander Tuvok. We're from the Federation Starship Voyager.
DALA: We have several mines like this on Earth.
MINER 1: I'm not familiar with Earth.
DALA: That's because it's thirty thousand light years from here.
MOBAR: Thirty thousand three hundred forty two point four to be exact.
MINER 1: You're a long way from home.
DALA: It's difficult sometimes, then I close my eyes and think of the farm in Indiana where I grew up. For a moment I'm home again. Shall we get down to business?
MINER 1: Yes. We've had a shortage of dilithium for the last two months. If we can't replenish our supply we may be forced to suspend work.
MINER 2: Our chief of mining operations has gone to the Grenna system.
MINER 1: Yes, but we are authorized to conduct trades in his absence.
MOBAR: What are you prepared to trade?
MINER 1: I'm afraid the only commodity we have is, er, bolomite.
DALA: We really don't have much use for that.
MOBAR: On the contrary, Captain. Bolomite is used in omega radiation therapy. The orphans on Narva
MINER 1: Orphans?
MOBAR: The settlers on the Narva colony were exposed to toxic levels of omega radiation. The entire adult population was killed.
DALA: We're doing all we can for the children. All right, twenty kilotons of dilithium for an equivalent amount of bolomite.
MINER 1: We only have ten kilotons left.
DALA: Then ten it is.
MOBAR: Captain, I must point out that dilithium is worth nearly twice as much as bolomite.
DALA: Tuvok, these people need our help. I'm not going to quibble over a few tons of ore.
MINER 2: Perhaps we should celebrate.
DALA: I wish we could, but there's a neutronic storm approaching our ship. We should be leaving orbit.
MINER 1: Give us an hour to finalize the arrangements.
DALA: We'll be waiting to hear from you.
MOBAR: Before we leave, would it be possible to tour your facility? It's our duty as Starfleet officers
DALA: Unfortunately the storm won't wait. Maybe on our next visit.
MOBAR: Live long and prosper.

[Dala's ship]
DALA: Ugh! This hair is so uncomfortable.
MOBAR: I find it esthetically pleasing.
ZAR: The negotiations?
DALA: It would've been perfect if Tuvok hadn't decided to improvise.
MOBAR: I was portraying my character as truthfully as possible.
DALA: Once we finish a transaction, we leave. Is that clear?
MOBAR: Indeed.
ZAR: Incoming transmission for Captain Janeway.
DALA: Ready. This is Captain Janeway.
MINER 1 (screen): The bolomite is ready for transport. We thank you for your generosity.
DALA: Directive nine twenty seven of the Starfleet General Order. Always help those in need.
ZAR: Transport complete.
DALA: We've enjoyed meeting you, gentlemen.
MINER 1 (screen): Er, Captain, we haven't received the dilithium yet.
DALA: Oh, the neutronic storm seems to be interfering with our transporters. If we don't leave orbit immediately, we will sustain heavy damage.
MINER 2 (screen): What about our dilithium?
DALA: We'll be back to deliver it as soon as the storm clears.
MINER 2 (screen): Well, how long will that be
DALA: Captain Janeway out.
DALA: Let's go.

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Computer, activate the sonic shower.
JANEWAY: Oh, adjust the frequency.
JANEWAY: Computer, deactivate the sonic shower!

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Report.
TORRES: We've got systems failures on eight decks, Captain.
JANEWAY: That explains why my sonic shower was a little louder than usual.
TORRES: Make that nine decks. I've run every diagnostic I know and I can't seem to isolate the problem.
JANEWAY: Gremlins.
TORRES: Excuse me?
JANEWAY: In the early days of aviation, engineers blamed imaginary little creatures called gremlins for malfunctions they could not explain.
TORRES: Well, one of your gremlins just paid a visit to the replicator system.

[Mess hall]
KIM: Tuvok, we saved you a seat.
PARIS: What's wrong?
TUVOK: Someone has altered one of my holodeck programs. Again.
PARIS: Are you sure it isn't just one of these malfunctions?
KIM: Everything on the ship's been affected, including the holodecks.
TUVOK: The Oracle of K'Tal isn't programmed to wear pajamas.
PARIS: Well, maybe he overslept.
TUVOK: I am not amused by your practical jokes, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Why do you always think it's me?
TUVOK: Mister Kim?
KIM: I'd like to claim credit, but I'm innocent.
TUVOK: The next time I visit the holodeck, I expect to find my program restored to its original parameters.
PARIS: I'm telling you, Tuvok, we didn't do it.
KIM: I wonder how the Oracle would look in a somberro.
TORRES: Everybody stop eating!
NEELIX: Captain, what's wrong?
JANEWAY: If I could have everyone's attention for a moment. We found a contaminant in the replicator system. It's nothing serious, but if any of you start to feel a little queasy, report to Sickbay immediately. In the meantime the galley is closed.
KIM: I wish I hadn't had seconds.

[Galley]
JANEWAY: Here. (One of the heating areas on the 'stove'.
TORRES: Well, that explains it.
NEELIX: Don't tell me a simple heating coil in the stove is responsible for everything that's gone wrong this morning.
JANEWAY: Any component connected to the integrated circuitry can spread a contaminant.
TORRES: This isn't Starfleet issue.
JANEWAY: Where did it come from?
NEELIX: I obtained it during a trade.
JANEWAY: With whom?
NEELIX: Sister Dala.
JANEWAY: Sister?
NEELIX: One of the clerics on Selnia Prime. Tom and I met her during our away mission. She was the one trying to help all those poor orphans. It's all in our report.
TORRES: Did you run a diagnostic before you installed it?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain to the bridge.
JANEWAY: I'm a little busy now. Can it wait?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I'm afraid not.
JANEWAY: I'll be right back.

[Bridge]
OREK (screen): One excuse after another. You're stalling, and I don't have time for it.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, this is Mister Orek. He's chief of mining operations on Telsius Prime.
JANEWAY: A problem, Mister Orek?
OREK (screen): Not if you deliver our dilithium.
JANEWAY: Dilithium?
OREK (screen): It's all clearly documented. Ten kilotons of bolomite ore in exchange for ten kilotons of dilithium.
JANEWAY: I think there's been some sort of misunderstanding.
OREK (screen): One way or another, I intend to collect what you owe me.

[Briefing room]
DALA (screen): We've enjoyed meeting you, gentlemen.
MINER 1 (voiceover): Captain, we haven't received the dilithium yet
DALA (screen): Oh, the neutronic storm seems to be interfering with our transporters. If we don't leave orbit immediately, we will sustain heavy damage.
MINER 2 (voiceover): What about our dilithium?
DALA (screen): We'll be back to deliver it as soon as the storm clears.
OREK: Do you still deny you made the trade?
JANEWAY: That woman isn't me.
OREK: Who is she then?
JANEWAY: Well, she's obviously an impostor.
OREK: I have transmission logs, transport records, scans of your shuttlecraft.
JANEWAY: I have never been to your planet, Mister Orek, aboard Voyager or any other vessel.
CHAKOTAY: Our ship's logs will confirm what the captain's been telling you.
OREK: And how do I know they're authentic records?
TUVOK: How do we know your records are authentic?
OREK: You think I falsified data? Why would I do that?
TUVOK: Perhaps to extort dilithium from us.
OREK: I'm not the thief here.
JANEWAY: We are not questioning your integrity, Mister Orek. It does appear you've been cheated, but not by me or anyone one on my crew.
OREK: How naive do you think I am? First, you prey upon the sympathy of my miners by telling them stories about poor, orphaned children. Now you try to convince me you're the victims here.
JANEWAY: Did you say orphaned children?
OREK: A despicable tactic.
JANEWAY: Will you excuse me for a minute, please?
OREK: We are not finished!

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Neelix.
NEELIX: Captain. We're making real progress.
JANEWAY: Never mind that. Tell me more about this cleric who gave you the heating coil.
NEELIX: Ah. Sister Dala. What do you want to know?
JANEWAY: Everything.
NEELIX: Well, Tom and I met her during our away mission. We were on a small planetoid in the Wyanti system

[Cavern]
NEELIX (voiceover): Searching for the spore the Doctor wanted to grow antiviral proteins with.
PARIS: I tell you, Neelix, when I first joined Starfleet I knew it was going to be one glamorous adventure after another, but I never dreamed that I'd have the opportunity to go on a mold-hunting expedition.
NEELIX: I'm detecting traces of glamor in this direction.
DALA: Please, go no further. This is our sanctuary.
PARIS: Our scans didn't detect anyone down here.
MOBAR: Our sect is a solitary one. We dampen our life signs to protect the privacy of our meditations.
NEELIX: We're terribly sorry if we've disturbed you.
DALA: Begin the cleansing.
MOBAR: Olat mal pri, mal pral, mal prolat. Olate kal mi, kal mal, kal molat.
NEELIX: I hope we haven't committed a serious transgression.
DALA: The transgression was ours. We should have guarded the sanctuary more carefully. The deities will be angry.
PARIS: Come on, Neelix, we'd better get out of the way.
NEELIX: Of course. Our sincere apologies. If there's anything that we can do?
DALA: Forgive me but, you look familiar.
NEELIX: I don't think that we've ever met before.
DALA: Do you see it?
MOBAR: Yes.
DALA: You bear a striking resemblance to our Redeemer of Light.
NEELIX: I'm flattered.
DALA: Each spring we make a pilgrimage to Narva in his honor, to help the orphans.
NEELIX: That's a very worthy cause.
DALA: It is. Unfortunately, we have no food to bring them this year.
PARIS: Why not?
MOBAR: A blight infected our hydroponic pods. The crop was destroyed.
NEELIX: Maybe we could replicate some food for you.
MOBAR: We bestow charity on others. The deities forbid us from accepting it ourselves.
NEELIX: How about a trade?
PARIS: Good idea. You must have something that we can use.
NEELIX: That way you wouldn't be accepting charity, and the deities would have nothing to get angry about.
DALA: Your heart is as kind as your face.
MOBAR: May the deities bless you.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: That's when they gave you the heating coil?
NEELIX: It was going to take a while to replicate the supplies they needed, so we invited them back to the Flyer.
JANEWAY: That's when they must have gotten access to our systems.
NEELIX: Captain?
JANEWAY: Did you leave either of them alone at any point?
NEELIX: I don't think so. Er, after we ate, Tom took Brother Mobar to see the cockpit, but I stayed in the aft section with Sister Dala, talking.
JANEWAY: About what?
NEELIX: Me, mostly. She wanted to know all about my role on Voyager.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
DALA: Ambassador, morale officer, head chef. It sounds as though you're invaluable.
NEELIX: I do what I can.
DALA: Where is your Voyager now?
NEELIX: About three light years from here.
DALA: Your crew is alone in this region?
NEELIX: We are the only Federation Starship within thirty thousand light years.
DALA: That must be difficult.
NEELIX: Sometimes it is, but we manage. We've single-handedly taken on the Borg, the Hirogen, Species 8472.
DALA: I'm impressed.
NEELIX: Captain Janeway deserves most of the credit. She's an extraordinary woman.
DALA: Your Captain is a woman?
NEELIX: The finest one I've ever known.
DALA: Tell me about her.
NEELIX: Well, she's commanded Voyager for almost six years now. Before that, she was a science officer on the Al-Batani.
DALA: Where does she come from?
NEELIX: Earth. It's in the Alpha Quadrant. She grew up on a little farm in a place called Indiana. You'd like her.
DALA: I'm sure I would.
MOBAR: Sister Dala.
DALA: Yes, Brother Mobar.
MOBAR: It's late. We must return to the sanctuary.
NEELIX: So soon?
DALA: It's time for the evening meditation. We can't thank you enough for all you've done.
NEELIX: We're just glad that we could help.
DALA: The blessing.
MOBAR: Certainly.
MOBAR: May the deities bless these travelers. Tala ot val. Tala ot relina. Sen tala. Sen relina. Val golina. Su ketran. Tala otval. Tala ot relina.

[Engineering]
NEELIX: Then we transported them back to their sanctuary.
JANEWAY: How long did this blessing last?
NEELIX: No more than a minute or two.
JANEWAY: That's probably all they needed.
NEELIX: For what?

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
JANEWAY: Just what I thought. The entire database was downloaded eighteen days ago.
NEELIX: Brother Mobar. The talisman.
JANEWAY: It was obviously some sort of scanner.
PARIS: What would a couple of religious clerics want with our database?
JANEWAY: It might help if they wanted to pose as Federation officers. Gentlemen, I believe you've been had.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: The way I see it, we're both victims. Your bolomite was stolen, and our reputation has been damaged.
OREK: What are you proposing?
JANEWAY: You said you had scanned the vessel that visited your mining colony. If you allow us to analyze them we might be able to derive the impostor's warp signature.
CHAKOTAY: We could find them and recover your property before they cheat someone else.
OREK: This is all difficult for me to believe. Two of your crewmen deceived by clerics? Huh. Could they really have been so naive?
TUVOK: A legitimate question.
JANEWAY: It's obvious we're dealing with clever adversaries. They fooled both of us, but I'm confident we can stop them.
OREK: Perhaps I should contact Telsian security. They have persuasive methods for determining the truth.
JANEWAY: In the meantime, the real thieves could be halfway across the sector, with your bolomite in their cargo hold.

[Dala's ship]
DALA: And finally, our bridge.
VARN: Is this a typical Federation vessel?
DALA: Well, the Delta Flyer may look a little worn, that's only because she's been through so much. This ship has helped fend off the Borg, the Hirogen, Species 8472.
VARN: Most of your technology is outdated.
DALA: Show him the mothership, Mister Chakotay.
ZAR: USS Voyager. Intrepid class, fifteen decks of the most advanced technology you'll find anywhere. Dilithium powered warp engines, integrated bioneural circuitry, holodecks.
VARN: Is this a typical Federation vessel?
DALA: Every ship in the fleet is built to exacting standards, but I'd be lying if I told you I didn't think Voyager was exceptional. As her captain, I'm not entirely objective. I'm sure you feel the same way about your ship.
VARN: It is my home.
DALA: I'm glad to hear you say that Mister Varn, because that's exactly what the Federation is. A home for an extended family who share resources and come to one another's aid in time of need.
VARN: So if my ship joins your Federation, Voyager will help me fight my enemies?
MOBAR: The primary goal of the Federation is exploration. Military objectives are
DALA: There's no need to bore our guest with Starfleet protocol, Tuvok.
VARN: My enemies have sophisticated weaponry.
ZAR: As do we. Photon torpedoes, optronically targeted phasers, multi-spectral shielding.
DALA: All of which we would not hesitate to share with a fellow member of the Federation.
VARN: What will I have to do to join?
MOBAR: In order to be considered, a candidate must make formal application. An extensive review is conducted by a committee composed of
ZAR: The process is complicated, but Captain Janeway has influence with the Federation Council.
VARN: And you would use that influence on my behalf?
DALA: I'd be foolish not to. You are just the type of candidate we're looking for.
VARN: I'll have to discuss this with my shipmates.
DALA: Well, joining the Federation is a serious commitment. Take all the time you need.
ZAR: Captain, our latest orders from Starfleet Command. We won't be back here for at least six months.
DALA: Perhaps we can discuss your application then.
VARN: If we were to apply now, could you assure us we'd be accepted?
DALA: You realize you'll have to commit considerable resources.
VARN: I'll do whatever is necessary.
DALA: Well, let me be the first to say, welcome to the Federation.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: You look like you could use a cup of coffee.
PARIS: I've been flying concentric search patterns for the last twelve hours.
NEELIX: Any sign of the impostors?
PARIS: Neelix, what has happened to us?
NEELIX: I know exactly what you mean. I've been over it a thousand times.
PARIS: Why didn't we see this coming?
NEELIX: Orphans. It's the oldest gambit in the book.
PARIS: I mean, if it'd been Harry, I could understand it. He trusts everybody. But you and me?
NEELIX: We've dealt with our share of shady characters.
PARIS: I think maybe, maybe we've lost our edge.
NEELIX: Hand me one of those terra nuts.
PARIS: What are you doing?
NEELIX: Proving you wrong.
PARIS: Ah, the old shell game. All we need now is a mark.
NEELIX: I think I see one coming.
PARIS: You go ahead. I'll follow your lead.
NEELIX: Now watch carefully. I place the terra nut under the cup. Then I shuffle them. Round and round they go. Keep your eye on the nut, but be careful, the hand is faster than the eye. Now, for three hours of holodeck time, can you tell me where is the terra nut?
PARIS: There. No, no, no, that one.
NEELIX: Oh. I really thought I had you this time.
PARIS: Oh, keep trying, Neelix. You'll fool me one of these days.
EMH: This looks like an interesting game. May I have a turn?
PARIS: Oh, be my guest. But you'll have to wager something.
EMH: If I win, you take three duty shifts in Sickbay.
NEELIX: And if I win, you take three shifts in the kitchen.
EMH: Done.
NEELIX: Ready? Now, watch carefully. Round and round they go. Follow the terra nut if you can, but be careful, the hand is faster than the eye.
PARIS: Careful, Doc. Try not to blink.
EMH: Don't you worry, Mister Paris. You have to get up pretty early in the morning to fool my optical subroutines.
NEELIX: Where is it, then?
EMH: In your left palm.
PARIS: How did you?
EMH: Superior visual acuity. See you in Sickbay.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I'm detecting a vessel on long range scans. The warp signature matches the impostor's ship.
JANEWAY: Harry, tell Tom his coffee break is over. Set a pursuit course.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.

[Dala's ship]
VARN (screen): The photon torpedoes you gave me are worthless. No better than plasma flares.
DALA: Perhaps you didn't arm them properly.
VARN (screen): And in the middle of the battle, the Polonians warned me to cease hostilities or face destruction at the hands of your Federation. You allowed my enemies to join.
MOBAR: Evidently, the Federation Council decided that
VARN (screen): Your Federation is a fraud. I demand reparations.
MOBAR: You will have to submit a formal report to Starfleet.
VARN (screen): Enough! If you will not reimburse me, I'll seize your ship.
DALA: Disable the beam.
MOBAR: I can't.
ZAR: We have an additional problem. Voyager.

[Bridge]
SEVEN: There's another ship alongside the impostors. It's got them in a tractor beam.
JANEWAY: Hail both vessels.
KIM: No response from either one.
JANEWAY: Well, let's try to get their attention. Mister Tuvok.

[Dala's ship]
ZAR: Voyager's charging weapons.
MOBAR: Perhaps we should surrender to them. The Federation has an extremely humane policy regarding the treatment of prisoners
DALA: Hail Varn again. Do it. Look on your scanners, Varn. Our mothership's arrived. She's armed and ready to defend us.
VARN (screen): Tell them to stand down.
DALA: Release us, or Voyager will destroy you.

[Bridge]
KIM: The other ship is hailing.
JANEWAY: On screen.
VARN (screen): Stand down, Voyager.
JANEWAY: I have no argument with you. However, the vessel you're tractoring
VARN (screen): I paid for my Federation membership. The Delta Flyer belongs to me now.
JANEWAY: Sir, I think you've been misled.
VARN (screen): Yes. I have.
TUVOK: Three direct hits. Shields down to sixty percent.
JANEWAY: Target his tractor beam. Nobody is taking possession of the Delta Flyer today except us.
JANEWAY: Lock onto them.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, ma'am.
CHAKOTAY: Now our tractor generator's offline.
TUVOK: Shields down to forty one percent.
PARIS: The impostor's ship is powering engines.
JANEWAY: Seven, transport everyone on that vessel directly to the Brig.
SEVEN: Establishing a lock on three life signs. That impact damaged the transporters. I'm losing annular confinement.
JANEWAY: Harry, reroute additional power.
CHAKOTAY: They're gone.
JANEWAY: Seven?
SEVEN: I only got one of them.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.

[Brig]
JANEWAY: Nice hair.
DALA: It's not really my taste.
JANEWAY: Posing as a Starfleet captain, selling memberships to the Federation. Too bad we didn't think of it, Tuvok. Imagine the resources we could have acquired over the past six years.
TUVOK: Indeed.
JANEWAY: I have to admit, I'm impressed.
DALA: I wish I could say the same. The great Captain Janeway. Somehow I expected you to be taller. I make a better you than you.
JANEWAY: Oh I don't know, I'd say we're very much alike. Resourceful, intelligent, ambitious. But with just one tiny difference.
DALA: And what is that?
JANEWAY: I'm not a liar and a thief. You're going to give me a detailed account of everyone you cheated, and exactly what you did with their property.
DALA: Why would I do that?
JANEWAY: Because if you don't, I'm turning you over to Telsian security.
DALA: Oh, is that supposed to frighten me?
JANEWAY: How much do you know about the Telsians?
DALA: Just that they're a more gullible species than most.
JANEWAY: Tell her about your research, Mister Tuvok.
TUVOK: I beg your pardon, Captain?
JANEWAY: On Telsian law. I think it's only fair that we let our guest know what to expect.
TUVOK: The Telsian criminal justice system is rather barbaric.
JANEWAY: Tell her about the prisons.
TUVOK: Barely habitable. Inmates often die of malnutrition before they are brought to trial. Torture is commonplace, as is disease, including several incurable forms of psoriasis.
JANEWAY: I think she gets the general idea.
DALA: Suppose I do tell you. How do I know you won't turn me over to the Telsians anyway?
JANEWAY: If you make full restitution to your victims, I'll give you safe passage out of this area.
DALA: Is that a promise, Captain?
JANEWAY: I know it's hard for you to believe, but occasionally some of us tell the truth.
DALA: Give me the Delta Flyer and three days to get as far away from here as I can, and then I'll send you the information you want.
JANEWAY: How naive do you think I am?
DALA: As far as the victims are concerned, you're the one who cheated them. Without my help, you'll be the one who has a problem leaving this sector.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, contact Telsian security. Tell them we have a prisoner to turn over.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Psoriasis?
TUVOK: Improvisation is not foremost among my talents.
JANEWAY: Considering I caught you off guard, I thought your performance was exemplary.
TUVOK: Thank you, Captain. Was your order to call the Telsians part of the deception or did you actually want me to contact them?
JANEWAY: Not yet. Let's give Dala some time to think about those barbaric prisons.
TUVOK: Do you believe she'll relent?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure. Something tells me she's just as stubborn as I am.
TUVOK: Then am I to assume you have an alternative plan?
JANEWAY: I'm like you, Tuvok. Making it up as I go along.

[Brig]
NEELIX: The Captain said bread and water, but I didn't see any harm.
DALA: I'm not hungry.
NEELIX: I'll just leave it here in case you change your mind. May I ask you something?
DALA: You want to know if you really resemble the Redeemer of Light?
NEELIX: I'm not that gullible.
DALA: Then what?
NEELIX: Do you ever feel guilty? Taking advantage of people who actually think that you care about them?
DALA: You seem like a good person. I'm sorry I lied to you.
NEELIX: Actually, I think you're just sorry you got caught.
DALA: Probably.
NEELIX: There. Now you're being honest. I knew it was possible. If you don't mind my asking, why do you do what you do?
DALA: My father taught me most people will exploit you if they can. So, it's best to exploit them first.
NEELIX: You know, I used to be a lot like you. Living by my wits. Never trusting anyone. Always trying to end up on the more profitable side of a transaction.
DALA: And now you don't hesitate to help starving orphans.
NEELIX: I changed. When Captain Janeway made me part of the crew.
DALA: I suppose you suddenly reformed.
NEELIX: No, no. Not right away.
NEELIX: At first I was just exploiting an opportunity to get a warm bed, food, protection. I kept waiting to find out what the captain wanted in return.
DALA: But she never asked for a thing.
NEELIX: On the contrary. She expected a great deal from me. Honesty, loyalty, hard work.
DALA: I should've guessed.
NEELIX: But I discovered that those were commodities I had in abundance. And it was much more profitable to share them than it was to be self-serving and cynical all the time. I'm happier than I've ever been.
DALA: I suppose that you think I could change too.
NEELIX: Stranger things have happened.
DALA: Do you really think that she'll give me safe passage if I make restitution?
NEELIX: If that's what she promised you.
DALA: Then what? I have never done anything else.
NEELIX: Captain Janeway let Seven of Nine remain on board, and she was Borg.
DALA: Are you saying she'd do the same thing for me?
NEELIX: I'd be willing to talk to her.
DALA: I cheated you. Why are you being so kind to me?
NEELIX: Like my great grandmother used to say, it's nice to be nice.
DALA: Is that tea still warm?
DALA: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm so clumsy!
NEELIX: Security to the brig!

[Bridge]
KIM: She's gone.

[Dala's ship]
MOBAR: It's not right to abandon her.
ZAR: Going back is too dangerous.
MOBAR: She's our captain.
ZAR: No, she's not. And even if she were, we wouldn't be able to rescue her. We'd be captured ourselves.
MOBAR: Without Captain Janeway it will be difficult to continue our activities.
ZAR: It's too late for that.
MOBAR: There must be a logical way
ZAR: What's logical is to get as far away as we can.
MOBAR: There's a vessel approaching. It's the Delta Flyer.
ZAR: Activate the shields.
MOBAR: They're hailing. It's Captain Janeway.
ZAR: Our Janeway or theirs?
DALA (screen): Which one did you expect?
MOBAR: I'm pleased to see you, Captain.

[Delta Flyer]
DALA: Lower the shields so I can transport aboard.
ZAR (screen): How were you able to escape?
DALA: I'll tell you once I'm aboard.
ZAR (screen): It's difficult to believe you weren't detected.
DALA: Are you accusing me of something?

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
ZAR (voiceover): Being cautious. How do we know this isn't a deception?
DALA (voiceover): Why would I try to deceive you?
ZAR (voiceover): You could be helping Voyager capture us in exchange for your own freedom.
EMH: Are we in position?
DALA (voiceover): I don't have time for this. Lower your shields and beam me aboard.
PARIS: Ready?

[Dala's ship]
MOBAR: Captain on the bridge.
DALA: As you were. Now, what about the bolomite and the rest of our earnings?
ZAR: They're exactly where we left them.
DALA: Well, it's time to collect them and leave the region. Set a course before Voyager finds us.
ZAR: You're not in command here.
DALA: I just spent the last twenty four hours in Voyager's brig. I have no intention of going back.
MOBAR: I'm picking up lifesigns on the Delta Flyer.
DALA: That can't be.
ZAR: I was right. You brought them here.
DALA: Don't be ridiculous. Whoever it is must've stowed away.
MOBAR: They're hailing.
DALA: On screen.
PARIS (screen): This is Tom Paris of the Starship Voyager. Prepare to be boarded.
MOBAR: He's charging weapons.
DALA: Evasive maneuvers.
DALA: Let's get everything on board as quickly as we can.
MOBAR: How many transport enhancers do you recommend, Captain?
DALA: Do I have to think of everything?
ZAR: We'll need at least ten if we're going to beam all that bolomite through the geostrata.
DALA: Maybe we should take twelve.
ZAR: We?
DALA: Is there a problem?
ZAR: In six years I've never known you to dirty your hands with menial labor.
DALA: Well, there's a first time for everything.
ZAR: You don't trust us.
DALA: Who knows what the two of you planned while I was in Voyager's Brig?
MOBAR: As Chief of Security, I would never
ZAR: It's all right. We'll all go together.
DALA: After you.

[Cavern]
DALA: The next populated sector is thirteen days from here. When we arrive, we'll trade the Delta Flyer for a new ship. Voyager will never find us. Are all the transport enhancers in place?
ZAR: That's the last of them. We can go now. If that's acceptable to you, Captain.
DALA: I'm afraid there's been a change of plans.
DALA: I've found the stolen items, Captain. You can lock onto my coordinates.
ZAR: I told you she couldn't be trusted.
MOBAR: How could you bring yourself to deceive your fellow officers?
DALA: Voyager, I repeat, I am in position.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Can you get a lock?
SEVEN: Negative. The geostratum is too dense.
JANEWAY: Keep trying. Tuvok.
DALA (voiceover): I'm outnumbered. Captain, I need assistance.

[Cavern]
DALA: Voyager, now would be an excellent time to initiate transport.
ZAR: You're not transporting anything.
MOBAR: Captain?
DALA: Voyager, please respond.
DALA: You're a sight for sore eyes.
MOBAR: Commander Tuvok?
DALA: The one and only.
MOBAR: Logic would indicate that neither of us has the advantage.
TUVOK: Your logic is flawed.
TUVOK: Stay where you are.
ZAR: What did they promise you for betraying us?
DALA: I believe you've mistaken me for someone else.
ZAR: Where's Dala?
EMH: I'm afraid she's indisposed at the moment.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
PARIS: I wouldn't get up too fast if I were you, Captain. It's going to take another few minutes for the ambazine to wear off.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 53849.2. The stolen property has been returned to the Telsian miners, as well as vessels from seven different worlds. I'm hoping that the reputation of the real Federation will survive the events of the last several days.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Round and round they go. Follow the terra nut if you can, but remember, the hand is sharper than your visual acuity.
EMH: I thought we'd already disproved that theory.
NEELIX: You tell me.
EMH: The terra nut is firmly entrenched up your right sleeve.
NEELIX: Sorry.
EMH: That's impossible.
PARIS: The old hand-off.
NEELIX: Ooh.
EMH: That's cheating!
NEELIX: We've still got it.

[Open air theater]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 53896. B'Elanna Torres has requested permission to take the Delta Flyer and search for dilithium. Shining Voyager, far from home, far from the gleaming cities of Earth.
KELIS: Headstrong B'Elanna Torres, and young Harry Kim, speed away from Voyager on the Delta Flyer in search of their treasures.
JERO: I've trimmed the sails but the sea is rough. Maybe we should return.
LAYNA: I know what I'm doing.
CHORUS: A wave as high as a mountain struck the Delta Flyer.
LAYNA: Get into the escape pod.
JERO: We die together.
LAYNA: No one is going to die. Go.
CHORUS: Young Harry Kim left her side and B'Elanna Torres was thrown against the rocks, the rocks of our very shore.
KELIS: Which is where I, Kelis the poet, found her. Broken, dying. She told me her story, and now I've told you.
AUTARCH: An excellent conceit, that you discovered her yourself.
KELIS: Thank you.
AUTARCH: Well, now that B'Elanna Torres has come to our shore, what will happen? Does Captain Janeway come searching for her, or does she give her up for lost?
KELIS: Who can say?
AUTARCH: Well, I would hope that you can. I want to see more of these Voyager Eternals.
KELIS: Inspiration can't be forced.
AUTARCH: One week.
KELIS: Or three weeks. Maybe two. One week. The story will continue. Have you noticed how thin my performers have gotten?
AUTARCH: Let them eat this.

[Backstage]
KELIS: Ladies and gentlemen, our patron salutes you.
JERO: Finally!
KELIS: We're doing another Voyager play. As soon as I can write it.
LAYNA: Shall we celebrate, the two of us?
KELIS: I have very little time. Celebrating will have to wait.

[Delta Flyer - night]
TORRES: Who are you?
KELIS: Kelis, Kelis the poet. Your servant.
TORRES: My servant? All right. Let me go.
KELIS: I can't.
TORRES: Why not?
KELIS: You'll fly from me, the way inspiration always does.
TORRES: You're trying to kill me.
KELIS: I'm releasing the heat from your veins.
TORRES: What are you talking about?
KELIS: You've been in a fever since I found you. Bleeding is the best way to treat it.
TORRES: Oh, I can see I'm in good hands.
KELIS: Something tells me you have your doubts.
TORRES: There's a medkit over there. A box, made out of metal. There's a small cylinder inside. Bring it here. Give it to me.
TORRES: Don't be afraid, it won't hurt you. Here. Pass it over where you cut me.
KELIS: You're an Eternal. I suppose such things are to be expected.
TORRES: What other things do you expect from an Eternal?
KELIS: The power to make the ground open up and the sky to fall. All the strange events sung by the ancient poets. Fortunately for me, no poet has ever sung about your clan. I'm the first.
TORRES: My clan?
KELIS: The Eternals on Voyager. Shining Voyager, far from home.
TORRES: What do you know about that?
TORRES (voiceover): Delta Flyer log, stardate 53918. Harry and I are continuing toward the fourth planet. Sensors have picked up natural dilithium deposits on nearly every land mass.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Acknowledged. Has your warp core been damaged?
TORRES (voiceover): Yes. We're running on thrusters. Can you track our position?
TORRES: How long have I been here?
KELIS: Eight days. I was walking through these mountains. I saw a light burn across the sky and I heard a terrible sound. When I arrived, I found you. I treated your wounds.
TORRES: And you tied me to this chair.
KELIS: When a gift falls from the heavens, only a fool would let her go. You've already given me one play. The story told by those voices. I pieced them together, tried to fill in the gaps.
TORRES: You made a play out of our logs?
KELIS: The Away Mission of B'Elanna Torres. My patron was impressed.
TORRES: He has great taste. Now take that knife of yours and cut me free.
KELIS: That would be unwise.
TORRES: Why?
KELIS: My patron is intrigued by the Voyager Eternals. He wants another play. To compose that, I need more details.
TORRES: And you expect to get them from me?
KELIS: I did save your life.
TORRES: I need to get back to Voyager.
KELIS: I need another play.
TORRES: What exactly do you want to know?
KELIS: Everything.
TORRES: It's not possible. We Eternals have our rules. We can't just give everything away.
KELIS: How did you get lost?
TORRES: Cut me free and I'll tell you.
KELIS: You won't leave me?
TORRES: Cut me free.
TORRES: You're the one who's leaving.
TORRES: Don't come back.

[Delta Flyer - day]
TORRES: Computer, bring the subspace transmitter online.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
TORRES: Why not?
COMPUTER: Insufficient power.
TORRES: Great. Now there's no power.
KELIS: Are you hungry?
TORRES: I told you not to come back.
KELIS: You haven't eaten in days. We have to support each other, we poets.
TORRES: I'm an engineer. I fix things.
KELIS: From the looks of it, you're not doing so well.
TORRES: Are you a poet or a critic?
KELIS: Tell me about Earth.
TORRES: I have to sing for my supper, huh?
KELIS: We all do, in one way or another. Earth.
TORRES: It's a, an island. A beautiful island, blue and green.
KELIS: And Voyager, a great ship?
TORRES: In a long line of great ships.
KELIS: How did Voyager get lost?
TORRES: The Caretaker.
KELIS: An Eternal?
TORRES: Yes, you could say that. He caused a storm, which blew us off course.
KELIS: Tom Paris. Are you in love with him?
TORRES: Supper is over. Come with me.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
TORRES: This is where we put all the names and dates when our heads won't hold any more.
KELIS: A memory.
TORRES: Exactly. Tell me, have you ever seen this before?
KELIS: Winter's tears.
TORRES: Can you get me some?
KELIS: This is dilithium, isn't it? What you were looking for?
TORRES: Where can I find it?
KELIS: The only deposit I know of is on the hunting grounds of my patron. He'd execute me for trespassing. And you, well, he'd love to capture an Eternal.
TORRES: Maybe I'm more powerful than he is.
KELIS: Perhaps, but if he caught you he'd force you to fight against his enemies. They're constantly at each other's throats. Bickering over territory, raiding each other's land, starting wars whenever they can be guaranteed of good weather. And we suffer the consequences. You don't want to get involved with them.
TORRES: Which is why you're going to get the dilithium.
KELIS: I told you, I'd be executed if I'm caught.
TORRES: The dilithium. Or I don't say another word about Shining Voyager, far from home.
KELIS: Did you?
TORRES: Don't get caught.

[Delta Flyer - evening]
TORRES: Well?
TORRES: Beautiful. I've got an idea for your next play.

[Open Air Theater]
KELIS: I've been visited by inspiration herself. How does this sound? The Rescue of B'Elanna Torres. Right here, in one week.
CHORUS 2: One week?
KELIS: Let's get to work.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Dismissed.
PARIS: That's it?
EMH: Mister Paris, try to stay calm.
PARIS: No, that's not going to happen. Isn't there anything else we can do?
JANEWAY: Not until something shows up on sensors.
PARIS: I'll take a shuttle out myself. I'll run a planet by planet search.
SEVEN: An inefficient plan.
CHAKOTAY: And too dangerous. You could be hit by the same spatial eddies that sent the Flyer off course.
JANEWAY: We need to concentrate our efforts from here, Tom. All right? Dismissed.

[Open Air Theater]
CHORUS 1: Steady-armed Paris, bound by a sleep that brings no rest.
CHORUS 2: The door opens. The shadow of a woman falls on the helmsman. His eyes open.
JERO: Seven of Nine, did you find B'Elanna Torres?
LAYNA: I'm sorry to disappoint you.
KELIS: Closer. Closer!
JERO: Unpleasant news delivered by the most pleasing of messengers.
KELIS: No, no, no, no. Seven of Nine is a Borg, the scourge of the Eternals. You're portraying her like a shy bride on her wedding night Once more.
JERO: Seven of Nine, did you find B'Elanna Torres?
LAYNA: I am sorry to disappoint you.

[Delta Flyer - night]
KELIS: I can't blame my performers. These Eternals on Voyager are difficult to understand.
TORRES: Will you stop walking around? You're going to break something.
KELIS: This Tuvok, for example. He's not like anybody I've ever met. No emotions? How is that possible?
TORRES: It just is.
KELIS: It worked?
TORRES: It worked.
TORRES: Okay, Computer, bring subspace transmitter online.
KELIS: What happened?
TORRES: I don't know. The transmitter must have been weakened in the crash. It couldn't take the energy surge.
KELIS: These Vulcans.
TORRES: Enough! What kind of metallurgic technology do you people have? Alloys. Which ones can you make? Steel? Bronze?
KELIS: Bronze.
TORRES: Bronze, all right. I need a plate of metal this big, as thin as it can be, three parts tin to five parts bronze. One side coated with gold.
KELIS: Gold is expensive. I can't afford it.
TORRES: Then you're going into debt.
KELIS: Then tell me about the Vulcans.
TORRES: Get me the plate, and then I'll tell you.
KELIS: Everyone's asleep. I'll do it in the morning. The Vulcans?

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Maybe I've miscounted but, I don't think you've slept in ten days?
TUVOK: Your count is accurate.
NEELIX: Don't you think you should go to bed?
TUVOK: As a Vulcan, I can function without sleep for more than two weeks.
NEELIX: But there's a point of diminishing returns, when your mind starts to play tricks on you.
TUVOK: My mind, Mister Neelix, does not play tricks.
NEELIX: The ship is lonely without them, isn't it?
TUVOK: If you would allow me to continue my sensor analysis, I might be able to locate them.
NEELIX: If there's anything else you need. A stronger tea, perhaps.

[Open Air Theater]
JERO: When a friend is lost, the mind is split in half, Divided between memory of the past and fear of the future. Harry Kim, Ensign. Only a boy when fate took you from the arms of blue green Earth. B'Elanna Torres, half Klingon, half Human. I am honored to call you
KELIS: What are you doing? Is that a tear?
JERO: Yes.
KELIS: Logical Tuvok doesn't cry. That's why they call him Logical.
JERO: Everybody cries.
KELIS: The land of Vulcan has no laughter, and it has no tears. It is a very quiet place. Calm, just like Tuvok.
JERO: I can't believe that.
KELIS: You don't have to, just don't cry.
JERO: The audience won't believe it either. They'll either think Tuvok is an unfeeling monster, or that I am a bad performer.
KELIS: They'll realize that beneath your unfeeling exterior is a heart that's breaking, silently, and in more pain than any of us can possibly understand, because that's what it is to be Vulcan. Try it again.
CHORUS 3: Kelis!
KELIS: What's wrong?
CHORUS 3: Our patron has been insulted by his enemy to the north. The armories are open.
KELIS: Has a battlefield been chosen?
CHORUS 3: Not yet.
KELIS: Then we have a chance.

[Delta Flyer]
KELIS: I need your help.
TORRES: I've given you enough help. Where's that piece of metal?
TORRES: Not bad.
KELIS: My patron's been angered by the leader of a neighboring state. He'll want to take revenge. It could lead to war.
TORRES: We Eternals aren't supposed to take sides.
KELIS: I'm not asking you to fight. I need a way to change his mind.
TORRES: I don't have that kind of magical power.
KELIS: Yes, you do. I believe the right kind of play can turn the mind from violent thoughts. The perfect play might even stop a war.
TORRES: I can't fix the transmitter with this. There's too many impurities. It'll never carry a plasma charge.
KELIS: If the fighting starts, scouting parties will start moving through these mountains. You'll be discovered. But my play, it could stop it from happening. You have to help me.
TORRES: There's nothing I can do.
KELIS: Then come with me. I'll show you what I've done so far. It's our only chance.

[Open Air Theater]
KELIS: She's a fellow poet from across the Eastern Sea, an expert on the Voyager Eternals. She's devoted her life to them. She's here to help.

[Backstage]
KELIS: The Rescue of B'Elanna Torres. We begin with Harry Kim reaching Voyager in the escape pod. He tells Captain Janeway that B'Elanna Torres is lost. We continue to the point where they discover a piece of the Delta Flyer. After that
TORRES: It's simple. They search for B'Elanna Torres. B'Elanna Torres is found.
KELIS: Or not found.
TORRES: Or not found. The end. It sounds pretty straightforward to me.
KELIS: That's exactly the problem. Where is the mistaken identity, the discovery, the sudden reversal? Mistaken identity, a character who is someone else. discovery, the moment when that identity is revealed. Reversal, a situation that turns from good to bad in a blink of an eye.
CHORUS 1: Find the truth of your story and you won't need all those tricks. I don't know how things are done across the Eastern Sea, but here poets have become lazy. They rely on manipulation to move their audience. It wasn't always that way. Welcome.
TORRES: Thank you.
KELIS: The truth of my story. It's an old-fashioned idea. Today, audiences want excitement, passion. Let me show you what I've done with Captain Janeway and Commander Chakotay. Let's make a good impression on our visitor.

[Open Air Theater]
TANIS: Chakotay, why must I be denied what every other female officer on this ship can have?
JERO: Captain?
TANIS: The privilege of your touch.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
JANEWAY: If that was good news, you'd be smiling.
CHAKOTAY: I was just contacted by an alien transport vessel. They picked up the Delta Flyer's distress call.
TORRES (voiceover): The primary controls are offline. I've ordered Harry to eject. I still have thrusters. I'm setting a course for an L class planet. I'll try to maintain contact.
CHAKOTAY: They couldn't get a fix on her position. That was ten days ago.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna ordered Harry into an escape pod. What's the longest he could survive?
CHAKOTAY: Less than ten days.
JANEWAY: An L class planet.
CHAKOTAY: I've already narrowed the search parameters.
JANEWAY: If B'Elanna made it there, it's possible Harry did too. Good night, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Captain.

[Open Air Theater - night]
KELIS: We'll have a final rehearsal in the morning.
JERO: The last Tuvok scene doesn't make sense to me, and we still don't have an ending.
KELIS: I've got the rest of the night to work on it. Maybe you can get some sleep.
KELIS: What did you think?
TORRES: Captain Janeway kissing Commander Chakotay? Tom Paris kissing Seven of Nine? I don't see the point.
KELIS: Anger is like fire. Love can be the rain that extinguishes it. My patron is filled with hatred for his rival, so our play should be filled with love.
TORRES: You can't change somebody's way of life with a few lines of dialogue.
KELIS: Yes, you can. It's been done before. Do you know what this place used to be a hundred years ago? A temple, and this was the altar stone. Every year a victim would be sacrificed on it in honor of winter. And then one year, nobody remembers exactly when or why, a play took the place of the ritual, and no one had to die here again. Why can't my play take the place of a war?
TORRES: Well, you're going to have to do a lot better than Harry Kim kissing the Delaney sisters.
KELIS: Why?
TORRES: Because when you think that you are surrounded by enemies, when you're up against the Borg, or, or Species 8472, the last thing on your mind is romance.
KELIS: You're an Eternal. You have to help me.
TORRES: I'm sorry, Kelis.
KELIS: The Borg. Tell me more about them.
TORRES: They're soldiers, part of a vast army. They all think the same thoughts, and they travel on ships that look like hives.
KELIS: Like insect colonies.
TORRES: They even have a queen.
KELIS: That sounds terrifying. Captain Janeway hasn't been able to destroy them
TORRES: She is a Starfleet officer, trained to avoid violence whenever possible. She would make peace with the Borg if she could.
KELIS: This is what I need. An enemy, someone to stand in the way of Voyager finding B'Elanna Torres. Captain Janeway, driven by vengeance, must seek out the Queen of the Borg. The audience thinks she plans to destroy them all, but
TORRES: Go on.
KELIS: The Sudden Reversal. Captain Janeway, holding her spear at the queen's throat, throws her weapon aside and she argues passionately to put an end to their conflict in words no one will fail to understand.
TORRES: Including your patron? It's much better than all that kissing.
KELIS: Stay and help me. I still need an ending.
TORRES: You'll figure something out.
KELIS: B'Elanna Torres dies tragically.
TORRES: You wouldn't dare.

[Delta Flyer - night]
LAYNA: I followed you here expecting to find a love nest. It's quite a nest. You're no poet from across the sea. You're an Eternal. Maybe even B'Elanna Torres herself.
TORRES: Don't be ridiculous.
LAYNA: You know all he thinks about is you?
TORRES: We're collaborators, that's all.
LAYNA: If you come to the performance tomorrow night, I'll expose you to the Autarch. Just leave us alone. Fix your ship and go, please.
KIM: Friend of yours?
TORRES: Harry?
KIM: Give me a hand.
TORRES: Oh. How?
KIM: I ran into some turbulence in the escape pod, decided to turn around and follow your ion trail. Landed about two hundred kilometers from here.
TORRES: You walked?
KIM: At night. I tracked your position with a tricorder and tried to stay hidden during the day. I've got some emergency rations left, a phaser, and the escape pod's transmitter, which I didn't have power left to run, but
TORRES: Harry Kim saves the day. Just the ending I was looking for.

[Open Air Theater]
KELIS: The final moment, the last scene, more important than anything that's gone before. But what is it? Where is she?
LAYNA: Your collaborator's probably halfway across the Eastern Sea by now.
KELIS: She'll be here.
CHORUS 3: You said we'd have an ending by mid-morning. We won't have time to learn it.
KELIS: It'll come to me. Don't worry.

[Delta Flyer]
KIM: Want to give it a try?
TORRES: Why not? The thirty eighth time might be the charm.
KIM: It's working.
COMPUTER: The subspace transmitter is online.
KIM: Why don't you do the honors?
TORRES: Voyager, this is the Delta Flyer.

[Backstage]
JERO: Our patron has arrived. He's not in a very good mood.
KELIS: He will be.
CHORUS 3: Not if this is any indication.
CHORUS 2: Kelis, this is no way to end a play.
CHORUS 1: It doesn't make sense.
KELIS: It'll have to. Go, go.
CHORUS 1 (voiceover): Who are the enemies of Voyager? The Borg.
CHORUS 2 (voiceover): Species 8472.
KELIS: You know where the ridge ends just below the peak? Run there as fast as you can. You'll find a vessel wrecked against the rocks. Go inside and give this to our friend. Don't be frightened. Go.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Tuvok. Tuvok!
TUVOK: As you were. Bridge to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
TUVOK: Request permission to be relieved.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Understood. I'll be right there.
TUVOK: We're picking up a subspace transmission. Starfleet frequency.
PARIS: It's a little rough. Hang on.
TORRES (voiceover): Delta Flyer. Harry and I are all right. We're on an L class planet. Propulsion is down.
TUVOK: Origin?
PARIS: Five point two light years, F type star, looks like the fourth planet.
TUVOK: Lay in a course. Maximum warp.

[Open Air Theater]
TANIS: Seven of Nine.
LAYNA: Captain.
TANIS: The Delta Flyer has been found in pieces, on a rocky shore.
LAYNA: And B'Elanna Torres?
TANIS: No sign of her. Seven of Nine, you are my eyes and my ears. If anyone can find her, it is you.
LAYNA: Her eyes and her ears. And the viper in her nest. I, Seven of Nine, have no intention of finding B'Elanna Torres. I, Seven of Nine, am Queen of the Borg. Surprised? No one will be more surprised than Janeway when I take my revenge on Voyager. Say nothing or you, too, will be assimilated. Captain, I will comply.
TANIS: My enemies are everywhere without and within. Seven of Nine is Queen of the Borg. Surprised? So was I. Tell her nothing, or I will lose my advantage, and my ship as well.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS (voiceover): Are you okay?
TORRES: Yes.
KIM: We're fine.
PARIS (voiceover): Good to hear it. We'll see you soon.
TORRES: Don't be afraid.
KIM: What is it?
TORRES: Without inspiration, B'Elanna Torres will perish. He's threatening to kill off B'Elanna as the climax to his play.
KIM: Let him.
TORRES: That means that he still can't figure out the ending.
KIM: Who cares?
TORRES: I do.
KIM: You're serious?
TORRES: Harry, have you ever inspired anybody?
KIM: That's kind of a strange question.
TORRES: It's been a strange couple of weeks. He needs me, or he's the one who's going to die on that stage.
KIM: What are you talking about?
COMPUTER: The transporter is online.
TORRES: Tell the Captain I'll be a little late.
KIM: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Wait for my signal.

[Open Air Theater]
LAYNA: My death is irrelevant. You will never see the gleaming cities of Earth. You will be assimilated.
TANIS: And if I let you live?
LAYNA: Also irrelevant.
TANIS: You don't believe that.
TANIS: The battle is over. Go home.
LAYNA: How foolish of you to let me go, free to attack you again.
TANIS: And again and again, until all your drones and all my crew are destroyed. Until everything we value is gone, and there is nothing left but our hatred.

[Backstage]
JERO: This final scene will ruin everything that we've done out there. We'll have to improvise.
KELIS: It's too late.
TORRES: No, it's not.
KELIS: I knew you'd come.
LAYNA: And I told you not to.
TORRES: Wait! Let's go.

[Open Air Theater]
CHORUS: Finally, Voyager has reached our shores.
TORRES: And not a moment too soon. Kelis the poet must say goodbye as B'Elanna Torres returns to the Eternals in a dazzling blaze of light.
CHORUS 3: On a far-away, snow-covered peak.
TORRES: No, right here before your eyes.
LAYNA: Wait! She's not from across the Eastern Sea. She's an Eternal. I'm telling you she's B'Elanna Torres. The real B'Elanna Torres! I saw her ship.
CHORUS 1: The lead actress, in a fit of jealousy, brands her rival an Eternal. Our patron rises to his feet to stop the play.
AUTARCH: Nicely done. I almost believed you. Continue.
KELIS: Stay.
TORRES: Voyager needs me.
KELIS: So do I.
TORRES: No, you don't. You have all that you need right here.
KELIS: I'll be inspired every time I think of you.
TORRES: One to beam, to ascend to the heavens.
CHORUS 1: And so ends the rescue of B'Elanna Torres. Half Klingon B'Elanna Torres. Half human B'Elanna Torres, Chief Engineer.
KELIS: These stories will continue for as long as we have the breath to tell them. And as long as our patrons remain wise and compassionate. And Voyager will continue on her journey to the gleaming cities of Earth, where peace reigns and hatred has no home.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
TUVOK: You wished to see me.
JANEWAY: We've known each other for how long?
TUVOK: Approximately twenty years.
JANEWAY: We've served on three starships together. I was present at your daughter's Kohlinar. I consider you one of my closest friends.
TUVOK: And I regard you with the same esteem.
JANEWAY: I've always been honest with you, but you've been keeping something from me.
TUVOK: I don't know what you mean.
JANEWAY: Don't you? It took exhaustive research, sifting through teraquads of data, separating fact from rumor, but eventually I arrived at the truth.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: Happy birthday.
TUVOK: Thank you.
JANEWAY: So, it's not long before you hit the big three digits, huh?
TUVOK: Indeed. Have you informed anyone else of your discovery?
JANEWAY: Don't worry, Tuvok, my lips are sealed. Well? You're supposed to blow out the candle.
TUVOK: That is not a Vulcan custom.
JANEWAY: Humor me.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Well?
TUVOK: It was a fire hazard.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We're receiving a distress call. A small vessel on an intercept course.
JANEWAY: Lifesigns?
KIM: One. It's Ocampan.
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: Kes?
KES (screen): Captain Janeway, I need your help. Will you please give me permission to come aboard?
JANEWAY: Of course. What's happened?
KES (screen): Please, let me come aboard.
JANEWAY: Prepare the docking port. Tell the Doctor to stand by.
TUVOK: Her ship is accelerating. It's on a collision course.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Kes. Cut your engines. You're coming in too fast.
PARIS: Five seconds till impact.
CHAKOTAY: Lock on a tractor beam. Evasive maneuvers.
KIM: Hull breach on deck nine.
JANEWAY: Emergency force fields.
KIM: Captain, a transporter was activated just before impact. She's beamed aboard.
KIM: I'm reading bulkhead ruptures. Deck eleven, section seventeen, eighteen, nineteen.
CHAKOTAY: Cause?
KIM: Unknown.
TUVOK: I've located Kes. She's moving through those sections. She's giving off high levels of neurogenic energy.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Kes. Kes, respond.
KIM: Hull breach, section twenty.
JANEWAY: Forcefields. Security to deck eleven.
KIM: Forcefields are not holding.
TUVOK: She's approaching main Engineering.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. Intruder alert.

[Corridor]
AYALA: Stop where you are.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Kes?
SEVEN: State your intentions.
TORRES: Evacuate Engineering.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Warp power is fluctuating.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Torres to bridge. Kes is in direct contact with the warp core.

[Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): She's drawing power from it somehow.
JANEWAY: Shut it down.
PARIS: Warp power is returning to normal.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, report.
SEVEN (voiceover): Lieutenant Torres is dead. Kes has vanished.

[Engineering - 2371]
TORRES: Send Mulchaey, he's in deflector control. We'll need more power to junction twelve J, and tell Harry I want to talk to him about building a new energy grid. Lost?
KES: No, just looking. Captain Janeway suggested that I get more familiar with the ship.
TORRES: Well, if you have any questions, let me know.
KES: Thanks.
TORRES: We're about to run a diagnostic on the warp core assembly. You can watch if you want.
KES: Thanks, but I really should be getting back to Sickbay.

[Corridor - 2371]
KES: Computer, has long has Voyager been in the Delta Quadrant?
COMPUTER: Fifty six days, seventeen hours.

[Sickbay - 2371]
EMH: Back so soon? I thought you went to the Airponics bay to collect herbs.
KES: I forgot something.
EMH: Ah. Pyong Ko.
KES: Excuse me?
EMH: You encouraged me to choose a name, remember? Pyong Ko was a twenty first century surgeon who discovered the genetic sequence for inhibiting cancer cells. It heralded a new chapter in Earth's medical history.
KES: That's a perfect name, Doctor.
EMH: Then again, I'm also considering Schweitzer, Jarvik, Pasteur. There are so many options, each with its own merits.
KES: Why don't you give it some more thought? You don't have to decide right away.
EMH: Of course, it's not that I require one for reasons of vanity. I'm just a hologram after all. But if I had a name, other than Doctor or Hey you, it might encourage the crew to treat me with a little more respect. Kes?

[Airponics bay - 2371]
KES: Hello? Neelix?

[Mess hall - 2371]
PARIS: Neelix, if you want to put your own stamp on it, maybe you should give it your own name, like the Greasy Neelix or the Double Talaxian with cheese.
NEELIX: It has a nice ring to it. Thank you, Lieutenant, I'll keep that in mind. Sweeting, What'll it be? The usual?
KES: I'm not hungry. I thought that I'd bring Captain Janeway some coffee.
NEELIX: That's very thoughtful. I'm looking forward to tonight.
KES: Actually, I have a lot of work to do in Sickbay.
NEELIX: But I already reserved the holodeck. I thought we could take a moonlit stroll through the marshlands of Oshionian Prime.
KES: Another time. I promise.
NEELIX: Something wrong?
KES: Bad morning.
NEELIX: Anything I can do?
KES: I'll be fine.
NEELIX: I'm not having a great day, either. Nobody seems to like today's menu. I tried blaming it on a replicator malfunction, but no one believed me. Wait, I, I think I see something. Neelix to Security, Kes' frown is losing its structural integrity. Red alert, I'm detecting a smile. That's my Kes.
KES: The coffee?

[Ready room - 2371]
CHAKOTAY: That last attack nearly cost us our impulse drives. Fortunately, B'Elanna found a way to reroute power from the deflector.
JANEWAY: A good choice for Chief Engineer, if I do say so myself.
CHAKOTAY: Getting to know your enemy.
JANEWAY: I feel like I already do. Remember the old story? Man goes to Risa, where he meets a beautiful woman who invites him over for an evening of passion.
CHAKOTAY: He wakes up in the morning, feeling wonderful, until he discovers he's missing a kidney.
JANEWAY: Every cadet about to go on his first shore leave hears that cautionary tale. Doesn't seem so outrageous anymore, does it?
CHAKOTAY: No, but the Vidiians are more than just your garden variety monsters. I've been studying their culture. They were a lot like us before the Phage.
JANEWAY: Do I detect a note of sympathy?
CHAKOTAY: Makes you wonder what we'd do under the same circumstances.
JANEWAY: Come in.
JANEWAY: Oh, you read my mind.
KES: Vidiians?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid so. We've picked up two more ships on long range sensors. I've gone to full tactical alert. We're taking every precaution.
KES: I'm sure you'll get us through it safely.
JANEWAY: Thanks for the vote of confidence. Tuvok thinks he's found a way to penetrate their shields. The next time they attack us, it won't be so easy.
KES: That's good to hear.
TUVOK (voiceover): Captain to the bridge.
JANEWAY: On my way.
KES: Oops. I'm so clumsy, I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: Don't worry about it. This desk has seen its share of coffee spills, believe me.

[Bridge - 2371]
TUVOK: Ensign Wildman has an intriguing proposal.
WILDMAN: We've been analyzing the Vidiian bio-readings from the last attack. Their immune systems have been compromised by the Phage. We could synthesize a neural agent that would incapacitate them without affecting us.
JANEWAY: Might come in handy if we're ever boarded.
WILDMAN: Exactly.
JANEWAY: Work with the Doctor. When you've got something, find a way to deploy it through the environmental systems.
WILDMAN: Aye, Captain.

[Briefing room - 2371]
TUVOK: The ships we detected earlier have disappeared from our sensors.
KIM: Maybe we outran them.
TORRES: They wouldn't give up that easily.
EMH (screen): Why would they? Voyager's the only organ bank within half a parsec.
CHAKOTAY: We fought off their first attacks. Now they seem content to show up on sensors just long enough for us to change course. It's like we're being herded somewhere.
PARIS: If we maintain our present course we're going to enter a region filled with subspace vacuoles.
TORRES: We'd have to drop to impulse to get through.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds like a good place for an ambush.
TORRES: The Maquis used to lure the Cardassians into the Badlands. Those Galor class cruisers had nowhere to run.
JANEWAY: Neither will we, unless. Tom, how dense are those vacuoles?
PARIS: They cover about seventy percent of the region.
JANEWAY: Excuse me, Doctor.
JANEWAY: Tom, what's the first thing they teach you about maneuvering at warp?
PARIS: Faster than light, no left or right. When possible, maintain a linear trajectory. Course corrections could fracture the hull.
JANEWAY: Exactly. We'd have to drop to impulse every time we made a course change but, what if we let Voyager do the driving?
PARIS: Ma'am?
JANEWAY: We could pre-program every kilometer. That way we'd only spend a second or two at impulse every time the computer executed a turn.
PARIS: Auto-navigation the entire way?
JANEWAY: No offense, but the neural gel packs can calculate vectors a little faster than you can.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna?
TORRES: We'd need a more accurate scan of the region. If we even graze one of those vacuoles
KIM: We could send a shuttle ahead.
TUVOK: The Delta Flyer. Its sensors are more advanced.
JANEWAY: The Delta what?
TUVOK: Forgive me. I must have been thinking of another starship.
JANEWAY: Prepare a shuttle. I want all of Voyager's systems operating at peak efficiency by the time Tom gets back. If we're going to pull this off, there's no margin for error. Dismissed.

[Shuttlebay 2371]
KES: Computer, display an image of the Ocampan homeworld. Plot a course from Voyager's current position.
PARIS: Homesick?
KES: Lieutenant!
PARIS: Tom. It's okay, a lot of people on board feel the same way.
KES: I spent my entire life trying to get away from Ocampa. Why would I want to go back?
PARIS: Because it's home. Home for me means a penal colony. Out here, I get to fly a state of the art ship, and there's no admirals in sight.
KES: What are you doing?
PARIS: Getting ready for a scouting mission.
PARIS: You planning on going somewhere?
KES: Er, no, of course not. I was just studying the helm configurations.
PARIS: I didn't know you could pilot a shuttle.
KES: I can't, but I'd like to learn.
PARIS: Well, then, why not learn from the best? I could start you off in the holodeck, in an old class One. It's the kind of shuttle my father used to take me up in.
KES: That would be very nice, Lieutenant. Tom.

[Outside turbolift - 2371]
TUVOK: Identify yourself.
NAOMI: It's me, Tuvok. Naomi Wildman.

[Cargo Bay two - 2371]
CAREY: May I help you, sir? Lieutenant, is something wrong?

[Kes' quarters - 2371]
NEELIX (voiceover): Hello, Sweeting. I took the liberty of preparing one of your favorite meals. It's under replicator program Neelix One. Call me if you'd like some company. Miss you.
KES: Computer, end music. Open an encrypted channel. Direct the signal to the following coordinates.
COMPUTER: Channel open.
KES: My name is Kes. I'm aboard the Starship Voyager. Respond. I know you're receiving this transmission, and I also know that your attempt to capture this ship will fail. If you want to harvest Voyager's crew, I suggest you answer me now.
VIIDIAN (screen): Explain.
KES: Captain Janeway is aware of your ambush. She's found a way to evade your vessels, but I can help you.
VIIDIAN (screen): I'm listening.
KES: I can send you tactical data on their shields, weapons. Everything you need to take this ship.
VIIDIAN (screen): This is a deception.
KES: Do you want this crew or not?
VIIDIAN: In return?
KES: Safe passage to Ocampa for myself and one other.
VIIDIAN (screen): Why would you sentence your own crew to death?
KES: They're not my crew. They abandoned me a long time ago.

[Airponics bay - 2371]
KES: Computer, access Voyager's tactical database.
COMPUTER: Command authorisation required.
COMPUTER: Access granted.

[Ready room - 2371]
JANEWAY: Naomi Wildman?
TUVOK: She appeared to be half Ktarian.
JANEWAY: Ensign Wildman's husband is Ktarian. I met him once on Deep Space Nine.
TUVOK: There's more. I followed her to Cargo Bay two, where I saw a woman and two children, all with cybernetic implants.
JANEWAY: Borg?
TUVOK: I can't explain it, Captain. I've had hallucinations before, but only while in a state of deep meditation. These were specific and they evoked a sense of anticipation.
JANEWAY: It almost sounds like you're describing a premonition.
TUVOK: Indeed.
JANEWAY: I didn't think Vulcans had premonitions.
TUVOK: They don't. That's what concerns me.
JANEWAY: Computer, maintain a continuous proximity scan of Lieutenant Tuvok. Ten meter radius, all sensor parameters. In case you have any more visions.
TUVOK: A logical plan.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We're approaching the vacuoles.
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Bridge - 2371]
CHAKOTAY: Last chance to take the long way around.
JANEWAY: It does feel like we're sneaking through a graveyard at midnight. Any sign of the Vidiians?
CHAKOTAY: Not yet, but it's a safe bet they're in there.
JANEWAY: Tom?
PARIS: Trajectory's laid in. Our trip will take three hours, twelve minutes, eleven seconds with two hundred and sixteen course changes.
JANEWAY: Well, let's get started.
PARIS: Engaging at warp eight. Sit back and enjoy the ride.
KIM: One of the vacuoles shifted position. The computer's adjusting our vector.
PARIS: Dropping to impulse, two point three degree turn starboard, jumping to warp six.
CHAKOTAY: One down, two hundred and fifteen to go.
JANEWAY: I'll be in Sickbay.
PARIS: Dropping to impulse. New heading, oh thirty one mark two.
TUVOK: There's a ship approaching. It's on a collision course.
PARIS: I'm not reading any ship.
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant?
TUVOK: Permission to be relieved, sir. I am not well.
CHAKOTAY: Of course.

[Sickbay - 2371]
EMH: The molecular structures appear to be stable. Good.
JANEWAY: Report.
EMH: We've devised a neural agent that should inhibit the Vidiian's motor functions without causing any permanent damage.
JANEWAY: Good. I don't want to add to their health problems. I just want to keep them from adding to ours.
WILDMAN: I'll get to work.
JANEWAY: Doctor, when was the last time you examined Ensign Wildman?
EMH: I performed her annual physical six weeks ago.
JANEWAY: Did you find anything unusual?
EMH: She's in perfect health.
JANEWAY: This may seem like a strange question, but I need to know if she's pregnant.
EMH: I'm not at liberty to disclose that information. Doctor-patient confidentiality.
JANEWAY: What about Captain's orders?
EMH: Sorry, medical protocol supersede your authority in these matters.
JANEWAY: The security of this ship could be at stake.
EMH: She planned on telling you herself.
JANEWAY: Boy or girl?
EMH: Female. Half Ktarian, as a matter of fact, which should nearly double the infant's gestation period. How did you know?
EMH: And they say I'm rude.

[Corridor - 2371]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We're receiving a distress call.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Life signs?
KIM (voiceover): It's Ocampan.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Kes?
KES (voiceover): Let me come on board.
TUVOK (voiceover): Her ship is accelerating. It's on a collision course.
KIM (voiceover): Hull breach on deck nine.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Emergency forcefields.
TUVOK (voiceover): She's approaching main Engineering.
SEVEN (voiceover): State your intentions.
KES (voiceover): Let me come on board.
TUVOK (voiceover): It's on a collision course.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Forcefields.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We're receiving a distress call.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Bridge to Engineering. Intruder alert.

[Engineering - 2371]
AYALA (voiceover): Stop where you are.
SEVEN (voiceover): State your intentions.
PARIS (voiceover): Warp power is fluctuating.
TORRES (voiceover): She's drawing power from it somehow.
TORRES: Problem?
TORRES: Hey.
TORRES: Torres to Sickbay, medical emergency.

[Sickbay - 2371]
EMH: Twenty milligrams lectrazine. Cortical stimulator. We'll start at twenty millijoules.
KES: Ready.
EMH: Now. He's gone into synaptic shock. I don't understand.

[Doctor's office - 2371]
JANEWAY: Can I speak with him?
EMH: I think it's best to keep him sedated for now.
JANEWAY: When did this begin?
EMH: Early this afternoon, in Engineering.
JANEWAY: Time. I need the exact time.
EMH: Lieutenant Torres called Sickbay at fourteen hundred twenty two hours.
JANEWAY: Computer, display proximity scan of Lieutenant Tuvok at fourteen hundred twenty two hours. Oh.
EMH: Captain?
JANEWAY: Tachyons.
EMH: I beg your pardon?
JANEWAY: There was a surge of tachyon particles just before Tuvok collapsed.
EMH: That could have triggered this, but where did they come from?
JANEWAY: They're normally caused by temporal distortions.
EMH: Time travel?
JANEWAY: Let me know if his condition changes.

[Sickbay - 2371]
JANEWAY: Kes, you have telepathic abilities. Have you experienced anything unusual during the past couple of days? Hallucinations, premonitions?
KES: No, nothing.
JANEWAY: If you do, you'll let me know?
KES: Of course, Captain.

[Doctor's office - 2371]
KES: We're low on neuro-stabilizers. I'll go replicate some more.
EMH: Hurry back.

[Airponics bay - 2371]
VIDIIAN (screen): Where's the tactical data you promised us?
KES: I'm downloading it now. I'll transmit it to you once you've arrived.
VIDIIAN (screen): I need it now.
KES: Janeway's already suspicious. If I transmit it now, I'll be discovered.
VIDIIAN (screen): That's your problem.
KES: Apparently it's yours, too.

[Bridge - 2371]
JANEWAY: Gentlemen, scan for tachyon particles deck by deck.
KIM: Tachyons?
JANEWAY: Do it.
CHAKOTAY: Looking for something specific?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure.
CHAKOTAY: Report.
PARIS: We're under attack. A Vidiian ship is closing on our position.
JANEWAY: Battlestations.
KIM: We've lost warp drive and weapons.
CHAKOTAY: They're cutting through our shields. Remodulate.
KIM: I'm trying. They keep matching the frequencies.
CHAKOTAY: We've still got impulse.
PARIS: They've taken out navigation. I can't plot a course.
CHAKOTAY: They're cutting an access route through the hull. Evacuate deck three and seal it off.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay. Are you ready with that neural agent?
EMH (voiceover): Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Stand by to release it on deck three.

[Sickbay - 2371]
EMH: Acknowledged. Fifty milliliters should suffice.
WILDMAN: Doctor!
EMH: Doctor to the bridge. Environmental controls aren't responding.

[Bridge - 2371]
JANEWAY: Harry, what's going on?
KIM: We've been locked out of that system.
JANEWAY: What do you mean, locked out?
KIM: The command relays have been fused.
JANEWAY: They know where to find us, they know our shield frequencies, which systems to target.
KIM: We're being boarded.
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading an EM fluctuation. It could be a transmission.
JANEWAY: Location?
CHAKOTAY: Airponics bay.
JANEWAY: Who's down there?
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking up two bio-readings. The sensors must be malfunctioning. They're both reading as Kes.
JANEWAY: Security to Airponics bay. Shut down control functions to that section. I'm going down there. Something tells me we've got more than one battle on our hands.

[Airponics bay - 2371]
KES: Computer, initiate site-to site transport program Kes beta six.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Control functions have been disabled.
KES: Shush, shush. I'm taking you home.

[Bridge - 2371]
KIM: We've got weapons back.
CHAKOTAY: Can you target those hooks?
KIM: Not at this range. We'd breach the upper hull.
PARIS: It's better than being dissected.
CHAKOTAY: Reverse the hull polarity. Maybe we can shake them loose.

[Airponics bay - 2371]
JANEWAY: Now one of you doesn't belong here, and I'm guessing it's you. Tuvok's premonitions were real. You're from the future.
KES: A future I'm about to change.
JANEWAY: You're helping the Vidiians, Kes. Why?
JANEWAY: Tell me why you're doing this.
KES: I won't let you hurt her again.
JANEWAY: I haven't done anything to harm her.
KES: You took her from Ocampa, her home. She's a prisoner on this ship.
JANEWAY: No one's a prisoner here, Kes.
KES: I was a child. You corrupted me with your ideas.
JANEWAY: What ideas?
KES: Exploration, discovery. I believed you.

[Bridge - 2371]
KIM: Hull polarity loosened their hold, but not by much.
CHAKOTAY: It's a start. Reroute the deflector. Have it discharge anti-graviton pulses along the hull. Engage the inertial dampers. Get a controlled pitch going.

[Airponics bay - 2371]
KES: In three years, I'm going to leave Voyager in search of higher things because you encouraged me to do it. You encouraged me to develop my mental abilities. I wasn't ready for what I found. I couldn't control it. It scared me. I had nowhere to go. I thought of returning home to Ocampa, but I'd changed too much. I knew they'd be frightened of me. I knew they wouldn't accept me, but they'll accept her.
JANEWAY: You don't have to destroy this ship, Kes. We can help you.
KES: No, I trusted you.
JANEWAY: Kes.
KES: No!

[Bridge - 2371]
KIM: We're breaking free.
PARIS: They're trying to lock on us with a tractor beam.
CHAKOTAY: Reverse thrusters. Full power.
PARIS: That could tear the hull apart.
CHAKOTAY: Then tear it apart!
CHAKOTAY: Photon torpedoes, full spread. Ready, fire!

[Airponics bay - 2371]
JANEWAY: It's set to kill, Kes.
JANEWAY: Janeway to bridge. Status?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): The Vidiians are in retreat. Everything all right down there?
JANEWAY: For now.

[Engineering - 2371]
TUVOK: She was here in my last premonition. She appeared older. Her face was tired.
JANEWAY: What was she doing?
TUVOK: She had her hands on the casing, as if she was drawing energy from it.
JANEWAY: The tachyons are concentrated here. It's possible she needed the core to travel back in time.
TUVOK: If that's true, then she'll need it again.
JANEWAY: And we don't know when that'll be. We have to be ready.
EMH (voiceover): Doctor to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
EMH (voiceover): Kes has regained consciousness.

[Sickbay - 2371]
TUVOK: What do you remember?
YOUNG KES: I was in Airponics, and then I felt dizzy, and then I was watching myself.
EMH: Yourself?
JANEWAY: Computer, deactivate EMH. What I'm about to tell you stays between the three of us. Understood?
YOUNG KES: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Something terrible has happened. Or more precisely, will happen. We're going to need your help to prevent it from happening again.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: It took exhaustive research, sifting through teraquads of data, separating fact from rumor, but eventually I arrived at the truth.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: Happy birthday.
TUVOK: Thank you.
JANEWAY: So, it's not long before you hit the big three digits, huh?
TUVOK: Indeed. Have you informed anyone else of your discovery?
JANEWAY: Don't worry, Tuvok, my lips are sealed. Well, you're supposed to blow out the candle.
TUVOK: That is not a Vulcan custom.
JANEWAY: Humor me.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Captain to the bridge.
JANEWAY: On my way. Well?
TUVOK: It was a fire hazard.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We're receiving a distress call. A small vessel on an intercept course.
JANEWAY: Life signs?
KIM: One. It's Ocampan.
JANEWAY: I'd almost forgotten.
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Raise shields.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Bridge. Begin emergency evacuation of deck eleven. Repeat.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY (voiceover): All hands evacuate deck eleven.
TORRES: You heard her, get moving. Now!

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Open a channel. Kes.
KES (screen): Captain Janeway, I need your help. Will you please give me permission to come aboard?
JANEWAY: Of course. What's happened?
KES (screen): Please, let me come aboard.
TUVOK: Her ship is accelerating. It's on a collision course.
PARIS: Five seconds to impact.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
CHAKOTAY: Lock on a tractor beam. Evasive maneuvers.
TUVOK: Shields are holding. Her ship is intact.
KIM: Captain, a transporter was activated just before impact. She's beamed aboard. I'm reading bulkhead ruptures on deck eleven, section seventeen, eighteen, nineteen.
CHAKOTAY: How did you know?
JANEWAY: Ready? Shut down the warp core. You have the bridge.

[Engineering]
HOLO-KES: Remember me? The innocent child you're here to save? You blame Captain Janeway, but the choice was yours. You made the decision to leave Ocampa, and you made the decision to leave Voyager. If you're watching me now, you've come back to take revenge on the people who cared about you. That's not who you are, and that's not who I am. Don't do this. Find another way home. Captain Janeway will help you if you give her a chance. Try to remember who you were. Try to remember me.
JANEWAY: Don't you remember? You made that holo-recording because you didn't want this to happen again. Three years ago, you traveled back in time. Kes, you wanted to take that woman with you and you were willing to hand the rest of us over to the Vidiians to do it. It didn't work. You forced me to kill you, Kes. If you go back now, it'll all happen again. Just before this terrible thing happened, you told me you had nowhere to go. That's not true. Stay here with us.
KES: I can't. I don't belong here. I need to be with my own people.
JANEWAY: You told me you had the ability to get home, but you were afraid the Ocampans wouldn't accept you. Why?
KES: I remember.
JANEWAY: What? What do you remember?
KES: The holo-recording. I remember making it. You asked me to help you, to help myself. You wanted me to remember who I was. These years were so filled with confusion and anger. I buried the memory. I'd almost forgotten.
JANEWAY: Does it really matter which Kes goes home?

[Transporter room]
NEELIX: A few snacks for the journey. You do still like leola root?
KES: Thank you. What?
NEELIX: Just looking.
KES: See anyone you know?
NEELIX: Only you.
JANEWAY: Goodbye, Kes.
KES: Captain.
TUVOK: What should we tell the others?
JANEWAY: A friend got lost. We helped her find her way.

[Shuttlecraft]
BARCLAY: Shuttlecraft Dawkins to Jupiter Station.
WOMAN (voiceover): Go ahead.
BARCLAY: This is Lieutenant Reginald Barclay requesting permission to dock.
WOMAN (voiceover): Granted.

[Zimmerman's living quarters]
ZIMMERMAN (voiceover): What? What is it?
BARCLAY (voiceover): It's me, sir, Reg Barclay.
ZIMMERMAN (voiceover): Come in.
BARCLAY: Doctor Z? How are you?
ZIMMERMAN: Nice of you to finally drop by.
BARCLAY: I've been extremely busy. The, er, Pathfinder project.
ZIMMERMAN: You're still searching for that ship? What's it called, Pioneer?
BARCLAY: Er, Voyager.
ZIMMERMAN: Voyager. Any luck?
BARCLAY: Actually, we're on the verge of a breakthrough. A communications link.
ZIMMERMAN: Congratulations. The first transgalactic phone call.
BARCLAY: Is there any word from Starfleet Medical?
ZIMMERMAN: Doctors. I've been scanned and probed a hundred times and they still can't tell me what's wrong.
BARCLAY: I'm sure it's only a matter of time.
ZIMMERMAN: I'm dying, Reginald. And there's nothing anybody can do about it.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to the bridge.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
SEVEN: We're receiving a transmission from Starfleet.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Route it here.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: It's not a comm. link, Captain. It appears to be

[Bridge]
SEVEN (voiceover): A compressed datastream, badly degraded.
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: They say good things come in small packages. This is all the data they could send us, until next month.
TORRES: Next month?
CHAKOTAY: They're using a cyclic pulsar to amplify signals from the MIDAS array, but the cycle only peaks every thirty two days.
JANEWAY: So once a month we'll be able to receive a short burst of information. And we'll have about seventeen hours to respond.
CHAKOTAY: So far we've gotten tactical updates, letters from home, and news about the Alpha Quadrant.
KIM: I don't suppose they found us a shortcut home.
CHAKOTAY: It doesn't look that way.
JANEWAY: We don't have much time to prepare a response, and we'll have to keep it short, but I want to give everyone an opportunity to send something. Even if it's only a brief note.
JANEWAY: Inform the crew.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Barclay, the Pathfinder Project. They didn't give up on us. So when you write those letters, you might want to thank them.

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: Mail call.
EMH: A letter? For me? Oh, it's from Lieutenant Barclay.
NEELIX: Bad news?
EMH: Lewis Zimmerman. Apparently, he's seriously ill.
NEELIX: Zimmerman?
EMH: He's the father of modern holography. He invented the matrix that made my program possible.
NEELIX: Oh. What's wrong with him?
EMH: He's suffering from acute subcellular degradation. The doctors here are having trouble finding the cause, much less a treatment. I've included his medical files. As you'll see, the prognosis isn't good. They say he's only got a few months. I'm sorry I don't have better news to report, but I thought you'd want to know.
NEELIX: How well did you know him?
EMH: I've never met the man.
NEELIX: If you'd like to send a response, the captain will need it by nineteen hundred hours.

[Doctor's office]
SEVEN: Here's the information you requested.
EMH: Thank you.
SEVEN: You're reviewing his medical data.
EMH: I thought I could send Starfleet a second opinion. It's a long shot, but maybe my experiences in the Delta Quadrant could provide some insights. I was hoping these Borg regeneration techniques might help them develop a treatment for his condition.
SEVEN: You bear a striking resemblance.
EMH: He used his own physical parameters as a model for my matrix. Can't say I blame him. A doctor needs to inspire confidence in his patients. Compassionate eyes and a strong chin can go a long way.

[Ready room]
EMH: I believe I can help him, Captain.
JANEWAY: How?
EMH: You remember the Vidiians? The early stages of the Phage are very similar to Doctor Zimmerman's disease. I believe I can adapt a variety of Borg regeneration techniques to arrest the cell damage, maybe even reverse it.
JANEWAY: Make sure to pass along your findings. Thank you, Doctor.
EMH: Actually, I was hoping to administer the treatment myself.
JANEWAY: What are you suggesting?
EMH: I'd like you to send my program back to the Alpha Quadrant. None of the Doctors at Starfleet are familiar with these techniques. It would take them months to fully understand them, much less put them to use.
JANEWAY: Even if we could send you, you're needed here.
EMH: Mister Paris can take over Sickbay. He's more than capable. We've done this once before. There weren't any problems.
JANEWAY: Three years ago, and we used alien technology.
EMH: I've spoken to Seven of Nine. She believes we can compress my program.
JANEWAY: There's limited space in the datastream. If we send you, there won't be room for anything else.
EMH: I realize I'd be asking the crew to make a sacrifice on my behalf, but they can wait another month. Doctor Zimmerman might not have that time.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry he's not doing well. Unusual man. I met him once at a conference. He managed to offend just about everyone there, but he was certainly brilliant. I'm sure Starfleet is consulting their best physicians, Doctor.
EMH: They are, but no one's been able to develop a cure. I have. But I can't treat a patient who's thirty thousand light years away.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry.
EMH: Captain.
JANEWAY: This is the first time we're attempting to send a response. We don't know if it will even get through.
EMH: I'm willing to take that risk.
JANEWAY: I'm not.
EMH: He programmed me. Every algorithm, every subroutine. If it weren't for his years of work, I wouldn't be standing here. I owe him something. And frankly, so does this crew. In a way, he's responsible for every life I've saved.
JANEWAY: Lewis Zimmerman designed the template for Starfleet's EMH. You're one of thousands based on that technology. It's not as though he's your father.
EMH: From your perspective. From mine, he's the closest thing I've got. If I don't try to help him now, I may never get the chance.
JANEWAY: You'll have to find a way to convince Tom to take those duty shifts.
EMH: He's already agreed.
JANEWAY: Tell him Captain Jane said hello. That's what he kept calling me at the conference. I think he did it just to get on my nerves.
EMH: I've heard he can be difficult.
JANEWAY: I certainly hope you get a chance to find out.
EMH: Thank you, Captain.

[Sickbay]
EMH: My vocal processor.
SEVEN: It's not a malfunction. I've removed your singing algorithms. They'll be stored in a memory buffer until you return.
EMH: Why?
SEVEN: Your program's too large for the datastream. I have to extract all non-essential subroutines.
EMH: They're essential to me. They're part of who I am.
SEVEN: Are you planning on performing opera during your visit?
EMH: No.
SEVEN: Will you be reciting poetry?
EMH: Doubtful.
SEVEN: Hoverball? Holophotography?
EMH: I may want to take a few snapshots to document my trip.
SEVEN: Sexual activities?
EMH: I get the point. How much has to be left behind?
SEVEN: Twelve megaquads.
EMH: I suppose you could get rid of my athletic abilities and my grand master chess program.
SEVEN: That leaves three megaquads. Your painting skills?
EMH: Oh, if you must. Try to leave a few of my enhancements intact. I don't want to look like every other EMH on the block. I think Doctor Zimmerman will be very interested to see what I've learned. He probably never imagined what one of his own creations could accomplish. I could spark a whole new field in holographic research.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: Bon voyage.
EMH: See you in a month.
KIM: Don't get lost.

[Zimmerman's living quarters]
HALEY: If I've told you once, I've told you a thousand times. Stay off the food.
ZIMMERMAN (voiceover): Haley? Haley, what's the status of my lunch?
HALEY: It's coming, Doctor!
ZIMMERMAN (voiceover): As if things weren't bad enough, now I'm dying of starvation.
HALEY: Come in!
BARCLAY: Haley.
HALEY: Mister Barclay. Is something wrong?
BARCLAY: No, no, just the opposite. Is he in?
HALEY: He's not taking visitors today.
BARCLAY: Tell him this is important.
HALEY: He's in a prickly mood.
BARCLAY: I've brought something with me that might cheer him up. Computer, is the download complete?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.

[Zimmerman's lab]
HALEY: Lunch.
ZIMMERMAN: That's not pork chops.
HALEY: It's salad.
ZIMMERMAN: I didn't ask for salad.
HALEY: It's healthy.
ZIMMERMAN: I'm dying. A piece of meat isn't going to kill me any quicker. Give the plants to Leonard. He's the one trying to watch his weight.
HALEY: Lieutenant Barclay is here to see you.
ZIMMERMAN: I told you I wasn't
HALEY: He says it's urgent.
ZIMMERMAN: Can't it wait until I'm dead? All right, send him in. Three minutes. He's got three minutes.
HALEY: Be civil to him, Lewis. He's worried about you. We all are.
BARCLAY: I found a friend waiting for me at home.
ZIMMERMAN: You don't have any friends.
BARCLAY: Well, I guess, er, you could say he's a friend of yours.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
ZIMMERMAN: An EMH Mark One? I'm not in the mood for nostalgia, Reginald.
BARCLAY: But this is the Mark One from Voyager.
EMH: I was compressed into a datastream and transmitted from the Delta Quadrant.
ZIMMERMAN: Congratulations. I recommend a tour of Jupiter's third moon. I hear the lava flows are lovely this time of year.
EMH: I'm not here for a vacation. I'm here to treat your illness.
ZIMMERMAN: You brought a Mark One thirty thousand light years to treat me? I was wrong about you, Reginald. You do have a sense of humor.
EMH: Care to let me in on the joke?
ZIMMERMAN: You didn't tell him?
EMH: Tell me what?
BARCLAY: Well, I, er
ZIMMERMAN: You're obsolete, extinct. Yesterday's news.
EMH: My program was retired?
ZIMMERMAN: Retired? Not at all. The EMH Mark One was reconfigured to scrub plasma conduits on waste transfer barges. I've been treated by the Mark Three, the Mark Four, not to mention the finest real doctors in Starfleet. None of them could help me.
BARCLAY: He has been running almost continuously for six years. He has seen more things than most doctors can even imagine.
EMH: I also have an exceptionally high tolerance for difficult patients.
ZIMMERMAN: I didn't program you for sarcasm.
EMH: You'll find I'm full of surprises.
ZIMMERMAN: Show the good Doctor to the plasma generator. I understand there's quite a build-up of residue.
EMH: If we had more time, I'd enjoy trading barbs with you. But right now, there's a more pressing concern. Your life. I'm working on a treatment based on a disease I encountered in the Delta Quadrant, but I'll need to run a complete analysis. However, if it's impossible for you to believe that a lowly Mark One could have anything useful to offer, I'll be happy to pack my bags and go explore those sulfur mines.
ZIMMERMAN: Go ahead, scan away.
BARCLAY: I'll be outside.
EMH: What were your initial symptoms?
ZIMMERMAN: Radical hair loss. Fatigue, nausea, joint inflammation.
EMH: Have you traveled outside the solar system recently?
ZIMMERMAN: What's that got to do with anything?
EMH: Just answer the question.
ZIMMERMAN: I haven't left Jupiter station in over four years.
EMH: To your knowledge, have you been exposed to theta radiation?
ZIMMERMAN: No.
EMH: Neutron flux?
ZIMMERMAN: Never.
EMH: Have you had intimate relations with a Bolian?
ZIMMERMAN: These are questions first year medical students would ask.
EMH: I'm just being thorough.
LEONARD: Just being thorough.
EMH: Did that creature just speak?
ZIMMERMAN: His name's Leonard. He's a hologram.
EMH: Computer, deactivate iguana.
ZIMMERMAN: How dare you!
EMH: I'm a Doctor, not a zoo keeper. Has there ever been an epidemic on this station?
ZIMMERMAN: No! Enough questions! Finish your scans and get out of here.
EMH: Doctor.
ZIMMERMAN: I said get out of here.
EMH: I traveled halfway across the galaxy to treat you. The least you could do is show a little gratitude.
ZIMMERMAN: Thank you. Get out of here!
EMH: I may be the only physician who can save your life. You need me.
ZIMMERMAN: Like hell. I brought your matrix into this world and I can take it out.
EMH: I'm no longer a prototype. I have exceeded my original programming. I'm no longer under your control.
ZIMMERMAN: Oh, really? Computer, transfer EMH to the living quarters.

[Zimmerman's living quarters]
BARCLAY: How did it go?
EMH: Power up the MIDAS array. I'm leaving.
BARCLAY: What, what happened this time?
EMH: I ran a mitochondrial scan. There was something odd about the results, so I spent a full hour analyzing them. And what did I discover? He's a Vulcan marsupial. He reconfigured my tricorder! You find that amusing?
BARCLAY: A little. Well, not really.
HALEY: Sounds like you're making progress.
EMH: How so?
HALEY: He only teases people he likes.
EMH: Then he must love me.
BARCLAY: I take it that you, er, still haven't been able to diagnose him.
EMH: On the contrary, the patient appears to be suffering from an acute case of arrogance!
BARCLAY: Oh, that's Roy.
EMH: Don't tell me. A hologram?.
BARCLAY: It was commissioned by Starfleet Intelligence. An experiment in micro-surveillance. Doctor Z keeps it around as a sort of a pet.
EMH: Undercover insects, talking iguanas. This isn't a research station, it's a three ring Circus. You should charge admission.
BARCLAY: Look. Look, you know that we can't send you back for another two weeks so please, just, just keep trying.
EMH: I can't treat a patient who won't let me near him. He's deranged. What he needs is a counselor.
EMH: Finally, I've accomplished something.

[Barclay's quarters]
BARCLAY: I thought you might be able to provide some, er, insight.
TROI (screen): It's not that simple, Reg. Doctor Zimmerman sounds like a very complex individual. I'd need to speak to him in person.
BARCLAY: Then maybe I could get him to agree to a counseling session.
TROI (screen): The Enterprise is in the middle of a mission. We're nearly seven light years from you.
BARCLAY: An important mission?
TROI (screen): They're all important, Reg. I could refer you to Counselor Jenzo, a colleague of mine on Earth.
BARCLAY: I need the best, Deanna.
TROI (screen): It would be an interesting challenge.
BARCLAY: Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.
TROI (screen): Don't thank me yet. I'll still need to clear this with Captain Picard. If he agrees, I might be able to be there by early next week.
BARCLAY: I'll see you then.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: Good morning. Problem?
JANEWAY: I haven't decided. I've just listened to a communiqué from Admiral Hayes.
CHAKOTAY: Nice to have friends in high places.
ADMIRAL HAYES (screen): Hello, Captain. I hope this message finds you well. From what I understand, it has not been easy, but I want you to know that a lot of people here are very proud of what you've accomplished. I also want to assure you that we have not given up finding a way to get you home. We've redirected two deep space vessels toward your position. If all goes well, they could rendezvous with you in the next five to six years.
JANEWAY: Computer, advance to time index one twenty one point four.
ADMIRAL HAYES (screen): As we get closer and our conversations become more frequent. When you respond to this message, please let us know of any casualties. I'm sure you've had more than your share. I'm anxious to know the status of your crew, the Maquis, first contacts that you've made, interactions with the Borg. But there'll be time for everything. Our thoughts are with you. Talk to you soon.
CHAKOTAY: What?
JANEWAY: Status of the Maquis.
CHAKOTAY: Do you find that surprising?
JANEWAY: I don't think of you or B'Elanna or the others as Maquis. I think of you as part of my crew.
CHAKOTAY: You may have forgotten, but we haven't. You heard the Admiral. It'll be years before we have to deal with those issues. Let's worry about it then.
JANEWAY: Do you have lunch plans?
CHAKOTAY: Is that an invitation?
JANEWAY: I was hoping you'd help me compose a response.
CHAKOTAY: You're on.

[Zimmerman's living quarters]
HALEY: Doctor, your lunch is ready.
HALEY: Are you all right?
ZIMMERMAN (voiceover): Fine, Haley, fine. Give me a few minutes.

[Zimmerman's lab]
ZIMMERMAN: Ah. Ah. Lower. Ah. Perfect. I needed this. You have no idea what I've had to endure these past few days. Last night I woke up and I found him hovering over my bed with a hypospray. A smattering of photons, that's all he is. What's that? What is that? A tricorder? You were scanning me? Computer, realign Voyager's EMH. You!
EMH: Remain calm. Emotional outbursts will only aggravate your condition.
ZIMMERMAN: I'll tell you what's aggravating my condition. You!
EMH: If you'd let me examine you.
ZIMMERMAN: I'll report you to the medical ethics board.
EMH: Doctor!
ZIMMERMAN: Save it for your hearing.
EMH: If you weren't so stubborn, you'd see I'm only trying to help.
ZIMMERMAN: I don't want your help! Why won't you leave me alone?
EMH: Because, for reasons beyond my comprehension, I care about you.
ZIMMERMAN: You weren't programmed to care. You were programmed to hold a scalpel.
EMH: I told you, I'm not the same EMH you created six years ago.
ZIMMERMAN: Of course. You can sing and dance. I should install you in a Ferengi nightclub.
EMH: The Voyager crew appreciates my attempts to expand my program.
ZIMMERMAN: This isn't Voyager. It's my lab. And in my lab, you're still just a hologram.
EMH: A hologram you created. A hologram who owes you his existence.
ZIMMERMAN: Is that what's keeping you here? Some twisted sense of obligation? Well, let me assure you, you don't owe me anything.
HALEY (voiceover): Doctor?
ZIMMERMAN: Yes, Haley, what is it?
HALEY (voiceover): You have a visitor.
TROI: Hello, I'm Deanna Troi. Which one of you is Doctor Zimmerman?
ZIMMERMAN: Deanna Troi. Another one of your tricks?
TROI: Excuse me? Ow!
EMH: He thinks you're a hologram.
TROI: I can assure you I'm quite real.
ZIMMERMAN: Oh. Well. The last beautiful woman to walk in here turned out to be him.
EMH: I'll take that as a compliment.
TROI: Did I come at a bad time?
EMH: Your timing couldn't be better. The patient is suffering from acute anxiety, normally associated with terminal illness. It's made him agoraphobic, paranoid and extremely antagonistic.
TROI: I see. Mind if I sit down?
ZIMMERMAN: Please.
TROI: Reg tells me you won't let the Doctor help you.
ZIMMERMAN: He's a Mark One. He's obsolete. I'd be safer in the hands of a Klingon field medic.
TROI: I understand he's developed a promising treatment.
ZIMMERMAN: If you're a Borg drone. He's threatening to use some kind of ghoulish assimilation technique. It's not fit for a lab rat.
EMH: You won't even look at my research. From the moment I arrived, you've berated me, treated me like an antique. Well, let me tell you something. Antique or not, I took a huge risk coming here. I had to plead with my Captain, leave my ship without a surgeon.
TROI: Doctor. Imagine that your program was seriously damaged, and the only person who could repair you was an engineer from, say, a hundred years ago. Would you feel comfortable with that?
EMH: If he were skilled, intelligent, creative.
TROI: Honestly, Doctor? A hundred years ago?
EMH: Well, I suppose it would give me pause.
ZIMMERMAN: Ha.
TROI: Now, put yourself in the Doctor's shoes. Imagine you were asked to treat someone you cared about, say an EMH Mark twelve.
ZIMMERMAN: There is no Mark twelve.
TROI: But if there were, and you wanted to save his program. He probably wouldn't let you near him. He wouldn't care that you'd won the Daystrom Prize for holography. From his perspective, you'd be out of date. But what if you knew you could save him?
EMH: Thank you, Counselor, for extending that olive branch. I'm willing to see past our differences, if he is.
ZIMMERMAN: All right. He can start by purging the plasma conduits on deck six.
TROI: Doctor Zimmerman.
ZIMMERMAN: I will not put my life in the hands of a primitive.
EMH: You'd need a phaser drill to get through that thick skull of his.
ZIMMERMAN: Get out!
TROI: Gentlemen!
ZIMMERMAN: Oh, spare us your psychobabble.
TROI: I came here thinking that you were opposite sides of the same coin. Identical, but different. Now I see you're both exactly the same. You're both jerks.
LEONARD: Jerks.

[Zimmerman's living quarters]
TROI: I'm starting to think you called the wrong counselor, Reg.
BARCLAY: You'll figure something out. You always do.
TROI: Things are worse now than when I arrived. Lewis won't come out of his lab and the EMH is hiding in a holodeck.
BARCLAY: He's feeling homesick. I let him use my Voyager simulation and it seems to be cheering him up.
TROI: A hologram fighting to save the life of his creator, who just so happens to be the same man his own personality is based on. I think I'd need a whole team of therapists just to get them in the same room.
HALEY: Mister Barclay said this is your favorite ice cream.
TROI: I hardly deserve it, but thanks. You're a hologram.
HALEY: How do you know?
TROI: I'm an empath. I haven't sensed any emotions from you. When were you first brought online?
HALEY: Nine years ago.
TROI: No offense but, you're more antiquated than the EMH Mark One, and yet Lewis seems to listen to you. Why do you suppose that is? Were you here when the Mark One was created?
HALEY: Yes.
TROI: Any idea why Lewis made it in his own image?
HALEY: Maybe you should ask him.
TROI: I did. He evaded the question. I was hoping you might know.
HALEY: He was extremely proud of the Mark One. He used to dream about hundreds of holograms in every corner of the quadrant saving lives. He put so much of himself into its development. I suppose it only seemed natural that it should look like him, too.
TROI: But the Mark One failed to meet Starfleet's expectations.
HALEY: He was devastated.
BARCLAY: He, he locked himself away in this lab for two years trying to repair the defects. Finally, he just gave up. Started from scratch. A whole new matrix.
TROI: The Mark Two.
BARCLAY: Followed by the Mark Three, and then the Mark Four. He, he was obsessed with perfecting it.
TROI: But none of the later models resembled Lewis.
HALEY: He made that mistake once. He wasn't about to do it again.
TROI: And now, after all this time, a Mark One shows up. It must be like staring in a mirror at a reflection you don't want to remember.

[Zimmerman's lab]
ZIMMERMAN: Computer, resume recording. Last Will and Testament, Doctor Lewis Zimmerman. Let's see. Where were we? Subsection eight, the Trojan Horse project. I hereby bequeath my latest research in holographic infiltration technology to the only engineer I trust to complete the work, Lieutenant Reginald Barclay. Subsection nine, holographic art. I hereby bequeath my entire collection, including the twenty first century masterpiece, Woman in Four Dimensions, to the person who has appreciated it the most. I guess that would be Reg Barclay, too. Subsection ten, Haley. I realize she's only a hologram, but she's been a loyal assistant for many years. I'd like to request that Starfleet keep her program running for as long as this research facility exists. She's been as real to me as anyone I've ever known. Not that I've known many people. I've created most of my friends.
ZIMMERMAN: Pause recording. Don't worry. I'll find a home for you, too.

[Holodeck - Doctor's office]
TROI: So this is Voyager. I like it.
EMH: It's a remarkable facsimile, but Mister Barclay did get a few of the details wrong. For one thing, Neelix doesn't purr.
TROI: I think that may have something to do with Reg's cat. He named it after your friend.
EMH: Neelix would be honored. If you're here for Doctor Zimmerman's medical files, I've nearly finished updating them. Maybe the next physician will put them to better use.

[Holodeck - Sickbay]
TROI: Actually, I stopped by to ask you to dinner.
EMH: I'm a hologram, Counselor. I don't eat.
TROI: I know that, but we'd still enjoy your company.
EMH: We?
TROI: Lieutenant Barclay, Haley, myself, Doctor Zimmerman.
EMH: No, thanks. Unless that man's eating crow, I'm not interested.
TROI: It's the perfect opportunity for us to talk things out in a more casual environment.
EMH: Sorry.
TROI: Just one meal.
EMH: I said no.
TROI: Doctor?
EMH: Something's wrong.
TROI: Troi to Lieutenant Barclay.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
TROI: There's something wrong with the EMH.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Can you be more specific?
EMH: She's a counselor, Lieutenant, not an engineer.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Stand by.

[Zimmerman's living quarters]
EMH: What's happening to me?
BARCLAY: Your program is destabilizing.
EMH: What? Why?
BARCLAY: They sent you thirty thousand light years. I should have expected some problems.
EMH: It's not your fault, Mister Barclay. We just need to find a way to repair the damage.
BARCLAY: You don't understand. Your primary matrix is degrading and there is nothing I can do.

[Zimmerman's lab]
ZIMMERMAN: Good riddance to bad photons.
BARCLAY: He's dying, Lewis.
ZIMMERMAN: He's not dying. His files are just degrading.
TROI: There are people on Voyager who count on him.
ZIMMERMAN: I'll send them a Mark Four. They're more reliable.
BARCLAY: They don't want a Mark Four. They want their friend.
ZIMMERMAN: No EMH was ever designed to be anyone's friend. He's just a hologram.
HALEY: Is that how you feel about me? Just a hologram?
ZIMMERMAN: I will not be ambushed in my own lab.
HALEY: Stardate 53292. My program malfunctioned and you canceled a lecture on Vulcan and came all the way home to repair me.
ZIMMERMAN: There's nothing worse than addressing a room full of pointy-eared blowhards. I was looking for an excuse to get away.
HALEY: You came back because you cared about me, just like you care about the Mark One. You just won't admit it. He may not be perfect, but he's still one of your creations and right now he needs his creator. Don't turn your back on him.
ZIMMERMAN: Computer, activate Voyager's EMH.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
ZIMMERMAN: You're the emergency.
EMH: Where's Lieutenant Barclay?
ZIMMERMAN: Trust me, you're in far more capable hands.
EMH: You're going to repair my program?
ZIMMERMAN: Who better?
EMH: Just yesterday you threatened to decompile me.
ZIMMERMAN: That was before your colleagues made me feel guilty.
EMH: You're ill. You're in no condition to perform delicate procedures.
ZIMMERMAN: I'll survive, but you won't if you don't relax and let me finish.
EMH: What are you doing?
ZIMMERMAN: My scans identified a recursive error in your pattern buffer. I'm trying to isolate it.
EMH: Is that a fractal algorithm?
ZIMMERMAN: Very good. I'm using it to realign your matrix.
EMH: Fractal algorithms are notoriously unstable.
ZIMMERMAN: In the hands of a novice. Whoops.
EMH: Whoops? What's whoops?
ZIMMERMAN: Computer, deactivate EMH.
EMH: I, I can't move!
ZIMMERMAN: I know. I had to take your mobility subroutines offline.
EMH: How long have I been deactivated?
ZIMMERMAN: Seventeen hours. I'm resetting your parameters.
EMH: You don't look well. You need rest.
ZIMMERMAN: I'm fine. And so are you. Your program's been stabilized.
EMH: I, I'm going to be okay?
ZIMMERMAN: No, you're going to be better than okay.
EMH: Now what are you doing?
EMH: Welcome to Sickbay. How may I help you today?
ZIMMERMAN: Well, what do you think?
EMH: I think you've altered my greeting protocol.
ZIMMERMAN: That's just the beginning. I've also added new subroutines for compassion, patience, empathy, decorum.
EMH: I don't feel any different.
ZIMMERMAN: Because I haven't installed them yet. I thought you'd like to be awake for the big moment. Reginald was right about you. You have exceeded the sum of your programming. You've accomplished far more than I would have ever predicted. But let's face facts. You never overcame the inherent flaws in your personality subroutines. You're arrogant, irritable. A jerk, as Counselor Troi would say.
EMH: I believe she was describing you as well.
ZIMMERMAN: Don't change the subject. I may not be able to turn you into a Mark Four, but I can make you a bit more presentable.
EMH: What if I'm happy with the way I am?
ZIMMERMAN: I'm doing you a favor.
EMH: I don't want any favors and I don't want your new subroutines. Why can't you accept me as I am?
ZIMMERMAN: Because you're defective. Emergency Medical Hotheads. Extremely Marginal Housecalls. That's what everyone used to call the Mark Ones until they were bounced out of the Medical Corps. I tried to have them decommissioned, but Starfleet in its infinite wisdom overruled me and reassigned them all to work waste transfer barges. That's where you'd be too, if you hadn't been lost in the Delta Quadrant. Do you know how humiliating it is to have six hundred and seventy five Mark Ones out there, scrubbing plasma conduits, all with my face?
EMH: I'm sure they're doing a fine job.
ZIMMERMAN: What are you doing? I'm not finished with you.
EMH: I'm trying to do my job. And if you give me a chance you'll see that I'm pretty good at it. Frankly, I'd hoped that if we ever met, you'd be proud of me.
ZIMMERMAN: Well, I guess it is comforting to know that at least one of you is still doing what I designed you to do.
EMH: Your intercellular proteins are at a dangerous level. We should begin the procedure. Please, give me a chance to make you proud of me.
ZIMMERMAN: Maybe we could try it, see how it goes.
EMH: See how it goes.
ZIMMERMAN: Just don't expect me to put you in my will.

[Zimmerman's living quarters]
BARCLAY: I, I'm going in.
TROI: Reg.
BARCLAY: They have been in there for thirty two hours.
TROI: Be patient.
BARCLAY: Well, you, you're not fritzing anymore.
EMH: No thanks to you. Doctor Zimmerman ran a diagnostic on my subtronic relays and he made a very interesting discovery. Apparently, I was the victim of foul play.
BARCLAY: Well, what, what do you mean?
EMH: He found an algorithm designed to disrupt my matrix. You wouldn't know anything about that, would you?
TROI: Well, traditional therapy wasn't getting us anywhere.
EMH: Well, your little scheme worked. Doctor Zimmerman has agreed to the cellular regeneration procedure. He'll require several more treatments, but I'm optimistic he'll make a full recovery.

[Zimmerman's lab]
ZIMMERMAN: Trying to steal my secrets?
EMH: Another one of my hobbies. I thought I'd take home a few memories. You're supposed to be in bed.
ZIMMERMAN: I've got work to do.
EMH: It can wait. Go to bed. Doctor's orders.
ZIMMERMAN: I hope you won't be coming back next month to make sure I'm taking my medicine.
EMH: Don't worry. My captain's not likely to authorize another house call.
ZIMMERMAN: Good. The next time she sends a datastream, you might want to drop me a line, let me know how you're doing.
EMH: If you insist.
BARCLAY: Ready?
EMH: Would you mind?
BARCLAY: Not at all. Smile!

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Computer, deactivate mess hall lights.
NEELIX: Oh! You scared me.
SEVEN: That wasn't my intention.
NEELIX: No, of course not. I guess I'm just a little jumpy, especially after what happened the last time.
SEVEN: That's why I'm here.
NEELIX: Oh?
SEVEN: We'll be shutting down main power soon. The children's regeneration cycle will be interrupted. They'll require supervision.
NEELIX: Well, I'm happy to help. To tell you the truth, I'd be grateful for the distraction.
SEVEN: The procedure could take several hours.
NEELIX: How much do they know about what's happening?
SEVEN: Nothing. The children have overactive imaginations. I don't want to alarm them unnecessarily.
NEELIX: What if they start asking questions? I can't just lie to them.
SEVEN: You have considerable childcare experience. I'm sure you'll manage.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: That's close enough. Let our momentum carry us in.
PARIS: Cutting engines.
PARIS: There's a creepy image. Reminds me of something out of Edgar Allan Poe.
KIM: Looks like a vampire bat. You can make out the wings, even the ears. What do you see, Tuvok?
TUVOK: Two Starfleet officers with juvenile imaginations.
PARIS: Come on, Tuvok. Haven't you ever looked up at the clouds and seen an animal?
TUVOK: I will never understand the human need to find imagery in something as innocuous as a cloud.
JANEWAY: Harry, are we ready?
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Then let's do it. All hands. initiate shutdown sequence.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Computer, deactivate EMH.

[Cargo Bay two]
NEELIX: Everything's all right. We've just had to shut down main power temporarily. Nothing to be concerned about.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Three, two, one, mark.

[Bridge]
KIM: All decks report shutdown complete, Captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Seven of Nine. We're ready.
SEVEN (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Cargo Bay two]
ICHEB: Why did they shut down main power?
NEELIX: It's simply a precaution. We've entered a class J nebula and the Captain wants to make sure that we don't attract any, er, residual EM. radiation.
ICHEB: Our shields provide sufficient protection against nebula discharge.
NEELIX: Is that so? I'm afraid that gaseous anomalies were never really my specialty. Come on, gather round. I've brought toys and stories and games and I thought that later we might even have a little sing-along.
ICHEB: I should go to Astrometrics. Seven may need my help.
NEELIX: I'm afraid that Astrometrics is shut down, too.
MEZOTI: If we're not analyzing the nebula, why did we enter it?
NEELIX: Oh, that is a long and dull story, and not nearly as interesting as Flotter Meets the Invincible Invertebrates.
MEZOTI: Is Voyager in danger?
NEELIX: Mezoti, there's really no need to leap to those kinds of conclusions.
ICHEB: Maybe if you explained what's happening in more detail, we wouldn't have to guess.
MEZOTI: This has something to do with deck twelve, doesn't it?
NEELIX: Well, what makes you say that?
ICHEB: Deck twelve section forty two is off limits to everyone but senior officers with a level six security clearance.
MEZOTI: That's because it's haunted, isn't it?
NEELIX: Who told you that?
MEZOTI: Naomi.
ICHEB: She was just trying to frighten you.
NEELIX: I'll have to have a talk with that girl.
AZAN: Is it true?
REBI: Does a ghost live there?
NEELIX: You're really too old to believe in such silly things.
MEZOTI: If it's not a ghost, what is it?
ICHEB: We deserve an explanation.
NEELIX: I don't think that Seven would be too happy if you all started waking up with nightmares.
AZAN: Tell us.
REBI: Please?
NEELIX: All right. Gather round. But I'm warning you, this is not a tale for the faint of heart.
MEZOTI: We're not faint of heart.
ICHEB: Our cardiopulmonary systems are reinforced.
MEZOTI: So don't leave anything out.
NEELIX: All right. But remember, I warned you. It all began several months ago, before you joined Voyager. We were exploring a dark nebula, just gathering deuterium. We had no idea what was in store for us.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX (voiceover): But when the turbulence started getting rough, we should have seen that as an omen.
NEELIX: How goes the particle collecting, Commander?
TUVOK: We've got enough deuterium to power the warp engines for another thousand light years.
NEELIX: Excellent.
TUVOK: Is something wrong?
NEELIX: Now that you mention it, there is something that I feel compelled to share with you in my capacity as morale officer. The crew seem a little on edge.
TUVOK: Oh? They don't appear particularly anxious to me.
NEELIX: They're very good at hiding their fears. Starfleet training. I was wondering how soon we might be leaving this nebula. Knowing could help me assure them.
TUVOK: It's difficult to say. The Bussard Collectors are running at maximum, but it's a slow process. We could be here for several more days.
NEELIX: Days?
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, are you certain it's not you who is on edge?
NEELIX: You know me too well, Mister Vulcan.
TUVOK: I can assure you, a J class nebula is no cause for alarm.
NEELIX: I know it's illogical, but staring into this murky cloud for hours on end can be a little unsettling. When I was a child, an immense plasma drift passed through the Talaxian system. The stars and the moons were blotted out for months. From horizon to horizon all you could see was this enormous, menacing cloud. Ever since then I've found it a little disturbing to be in nebulas.
TUVOK: Perhaps the Captain might give you permission to install curtains.
NEELIX: That's an excellent idea. And I have just the right material.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
KIM: The nebula's beginning to destabilize.
JANEWAY: Cause.
KIM: I'm not sure. It could have something to do with the nadion emissions being produced by the Bussard Collectors.

[Cargo Bay two]
ICHEB: You're not remembering correctly.
NEELIX: I beg your pardon?
ICHEB: The Bussard Collectors don't produce nadion emissions.
NEELIX: Well, the technical details don't matter. What's important is that Voyager's presence was destabilizing the nebula

[Bridge]
NEELIX (voiceover): And the crew wasn't interested in taking any chances.
CHAKOTAY: We've got eighty percent of the deuterium we wanted. Maybe we shouldn't push our luck.
JANEWAY: Agreed. Bridge to Engineering.
TORRES (voiceover): Go ahead.
JANEWAY: We're suspending the dilithium intake.
TORRES (voiceover): Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: Tom, take us out.
PARIS: Aye.
NEELIX (voiceover): But at that exact moment, in the fraction of a second before Tom could engage the engines, zap! We were hit.

[Cargo Bay two]
MEZOTI: What was it?
AZAN: The ghost?
REBI: Shush. Let him finish.
NEELIX: Whatever it was, it shook the ship hard.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: An EM discharge penetrated the hull. Deck seven, section ten.
KIM: Increasing power to structural integrity.
PARIS: We're clear.
JANEWAY: Damage?
CHAKOTAY: Power outages on three decks. Auxiliary subprocessors are offline. No injuries reported.
JANEWAY: Assign repair teams. Resume course.
NEELIX (voiceover): We'd taken some minor damage, but for the most part everything was fine. Or so we thought.

[Cargo Bay two]
NEELIX: What none of us knew was that a mysterious stowaway had come aboard Voyager.
MEZOTI: What kind of stowaway?
ICHEB: It was obviously a space-dwelling lifeform.
NEELIX: Yes, but we didn't know that, not at that point.
MEZOTI: Was it non-corporeal?
NEELIX: In a manner of speaking
REBI: Hostile?
NEELIX: Well, I'm getting to that.
AZAN: Species 5973?
NEELIX: Who are they?
ICHEB: The Borg encountered them in galactic cluster eight. They're multi-spectrum particle lifeforms.
NEELIX: No, that's not what this was.
MEZOTI: Maybe it was an inter-phasic species.
NEELIX: We can either debate comparative xenobiology or I can continue with the story. Now it's up to you.
ICHEB: Continue the story.
NEELIX: Somehow I thought you'd say that. Now, where was I? Oh, ah, yes. Life aboard Voyager would have been more or less back to normal if it weren't for a few strange malfunctions.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: I've got reports from repair teams. It looks like that EM discharge did more damage than we thought. Transporter room one is out of commission, half the sonic showers are offline, and we temporarily lost artificial gravity on deck five.
JANEWAY: Any injuries?
CHAKOTAY: Ensign Mulchaey bumped his head on the ceiling.
JANEWAY: Ouch. This is terrible. Computer, another cup of coffee, black.
JANEWAY: You can add replicators to your list. We're getting started on the wrong foot today, my friend.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. I was talking to Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: It's nothing to be embarrassed about. I used to have long conversations with my Maquis ship.
JANEWAY: Really? What did you two talk about?
CHAKOTAY: Oh, I can't tell you that. Captain-starship confidentiality.
JANEWAY: Of course.
CHAKOTAY: If the Doctor heard us he'd probably recommend counseling.
JANEWAY: I won't tell if you won't.
CHAKOTAY: Deal.
JANEWAY: Commander, do you see that?
CHAKOTAY: It's a meteorite cluster. I doubt it's anything to worry about.
JANEWAY: I'd tend to agree, if it weren't the same one we passed an hour ago.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Ensign.
ENSIGN: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Are you conducting a survey of meteoroids, Tom?
PARIS: Ma'am?
JANEWAY: Check your sensors. We're traveling in circles.
PARIS: Not according to my readings.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, run level four diagnostic on the navigational array.
TUVOK: There is a malfunction in the subprocessors. It appears we're heading back the way we came.
JANEWAY: All stop. Reinitialize your sensors.
PARIS: I'm telling you, we rely too much on twenty fourth century technology, Captain. You give me a window and a sextant and I guarantee I'll get you where you want to go.
TUVOK: We've jumped to warp six.
JANEWAY: Tom?
PARIS: Don't look at me.
JANEWAY: Shut down the warp engines.
PARIS: I can't.
CHAKOTAY: Manual override.
TUVOK: No response.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering.
PARIS: I'm reading all stop.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Torres, respond.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, locate B'Elanna Torres.
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Torres is in Engineering. Ensign Trumari is on deck four, section thirty. Commander Tuvok is on the bridge.
JANEWAY: Find out what's going on. Harry, pull the speech processors if you have to, but shut that thing off.
COMPUTER: Ensign Vorik is in Engineering, level two.

[Turbolift]
NEELIX (voiceover): Meanwhile, Commander Chakotay was headed for Engineering, or so he thought.
CHAKOTAY: Engineering.
CHAKOTAY: I bet you wouldn't try to pull this on the Captain. Have it your way. I'll walk.
NEELIX (voiceover): The turbolift started to fall

[Cargo Bay two]
NEELIX: Faster and faster! Anybody hungry?
MEZOTI: Neelix!
NEELIX: You haven't touched your snacks
MEZOTI: Snacks are irrelevant. Continue the story.
ICHEB: What happened to Commander Chakotay?
NEELIX: The turbolift plunged eleven decks at high speed. The g forces pinned Commander Chakotay to the ceiling. He knew that at any minute he was going to come crashing down to the bottom of the turbolift and there was nothing that he could do about it. But then the descent stabilizers reactivated.

[Engineering]
NEELIX (voiceover): The way B'Elanna tells it, Commander Chakotay was not very happy when he showed up in Engineering that morning.
CHAKOTAY: If I didn't know better I'd say this ship is trying to kill me. Do you have any idea what's going on?
TORRES: Well, I've traced the problem to a series of gel packs on deck thirteen. It looks like they were burned out by an EM discharge from the nebula.
CHAKOTAY: And those gel-packs interface with all the affected systems.
TORRES: I'm on my way to repair it right now. Feel like giving me a hand?
CHAKOTAY: Only if we stay out of the turbolifts. I'll tell you about it on the way.

[Corridor]
NEELIX (voiceover): While Chakotay and B'Elanna headed for deck thirteen, new problems were cropping up all over the ship.
SEVEN: Crewman Celes, step away from the control panel.
CELES: Did I do something wrong?
SEVEN: You caused a power failure in Astrometrics.
CELES: I did? How?
SEVEN: That's what I'm attempting to find out.
CELES: I don't see how I could have done anything.
SEVEN: I've located the problem. It appears you inadvertently overloaded a series of EPS conduits while performing your diagnostic.
CELES: But I haven't even started the diagnostic.
SEVEN: Then what were you doing?
CELES: Nothing. I just got here.
CELES: I know that wasn't my fault.

[Deck thirteen]
CHAKOTAY: These gel packs aren't burned out.
TORRES: There's no trace of any EM discharge.
CHAKOTAY: Could it have dissipated this quickly?
TORRES: No, it moved.
CHAKOTAY: Moved?
TORRES: The discharge seems to be traveling through the bio-neural circuitry, jumping from system to system.
CHAKOTAY: Can you isolate it?
TORRES: It's in a series of gel packs that interface with the environmental controls outside Cargo Bay two.
CHAKOTAY: Let's try to get there before it jumps again.

[Cargo Bay two - then]
NEELIX (voiceover): By then Seven of Nine was in Cargo Bay two to run diagnostics but, because the comm. system was down they couldn't warn her, and she had no idea that something was in the room with her.

[Cargo Bay two - now]
AZAN: Here?
REBI: In this cargo bay?
MEZOTI: Then what happened?

[Cargo Bay two - then]
NEELIX (voiceover): The creature was clinging to the circuits and bulkheads using them to move about the room. It was getting closer and closer.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to the bridge. Bridge, acknowledge.
NEELIX (voiceover): But of course, there was no answer.

[Cargo Bay two - now]
ICHEB: Why didn't she remodulate her neural transceiver and send a message that way?
NEELIX: That's an interesting question. You'll have to ask her.
MEZOTI: Stop interrupting.

[Cargo Bay two - then]
NEELIX (voiceover): Seven tried to get out but she was trapped.

[Cargo Bay two - now]
REBI: What happened to Seven?
MEZOTI: The entity must have infiltrated her cybernetic systems and turned her against the rest of the crew.
NEELIX: It most certainly did not. You're letting your imagination run away with you.
REBI: What happened?
AZAN: Why did the light go out?
NEELIX: It's all right. I just have to replace the power cell. It'll only take a moment. Nothing to be frightened about.
MEZOTI: I'm not frightened, but Azan is.
AZAN: I am not.
NEELIX: There. Sorry, I didn't mean to scare you. Now, where was I? Oh, yes. Seven was trapped by the forcefields, but fortunately for her

[Corridor]
NEELIX (voiceover): Help was on the way.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, deactivate this forcefield. We'll have to cut power to the field generators.
TORRES: The computer's not accepting my command codes.
CHAKOTAY: Stand back.
TORRES: The forcefield's down.
CHAKOTAY: Let's get her to Sickbay.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX (voiceover): Now, most of us were just going about our business oblivious to what was happening, but that was about to change.
KIM: Kim to Engineering.
NEELIX: Neelix to the bridge.
KIM: I want everyone to report to their stations until we figure out what's going on.
CREWMAN: Aye, sir.
NEELIX: Er, Ensign, maybe I should come with you. The captain might need me.
KIM: This is your post. You may be needed here.
NEELIX: Oh, of course. If you need anything, anything at all, you know where to find me.
NEELIX (voiceover): So there I was. The only thing I could do was wait, alone.
NEELIX (voiceover): In the dark.

[Bridge]
NEELIX (voiceover): Voyager was dead in space. System after system was failing, including the environmental controls. Ensign Paris told me it was hotter than the Tarkanian Desert on the bridge.
PARIS: Don't you ever sweat?
TUVOK: Not unless the temperature reaches three hundred fifty degrees Kelvin, with a humidity factor at approximately
PARIS: Forget I asked.
TUVOK: Very well.
JANEWAY: I'll make you a deal, Voyager. The next M class planetoid we find, we'll set down and I'll give you a nice maintenance overhaul. What do you say? Tom, check the conn.
PARIS: I don't know what you did, Captain, but I've got helm control back.
JANEWAY: Thanks, my friend.
PARIS: I'm going to try to get thrusters and impulse engines back online.
JANEWAY: Tom, I'm reading an EM surge in your console. Get away from there.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay. Medical emergency. Can we transport him?
TUVOK: Transporters are offline.
JANEWAY: Why am I not surprised. Now what?
COMPUTER: Warning, oxygen depletion in progress.
TUVOK: Breathable air is being sucked out of the bridge.
JANEWAY: Reroute emergency power to environmental controls.
TUVOK: No effect.
JANEWAY: Everyone out of here now.

[Sickbay]
NEELIX (voiceover): In Sickbay, the Doctor had his hands full, too.
EMH: You're fortunate. Another few moments and you'd have been asphyxiated. Where do you think you're going?
SEVEN: Lieutenant Torres needs help with the repairs.
JANEWAY: Doctor.
TORRES: What happened?
EMH: An EM. surge. Seven had a similar experience.
SEVEN: The environmental system converted Cargo Bay two into a micronebula.
CHAKOTAY: When Gibson and McMinn tried to vent the gas from deck seven, they were struck by a discharge, too.
JANEWAY: Are we thinking the same thing?
CHAKOTAY: It could be an intelligence at work here.
TORRES: Some kind of electromagnetic lifeform that's using the environmental controls to make the ship more hospitable for itself.
JANEWAY: And attacking anyone who tries to stop it.
EMH: My matrix is destabilizing.
JANEWAY: Transfer his program to the mobile emitter. Quickly.
COMPUTER: Warning. Power failure.
JANEWAY: Let's get the injured out of here.
NEELIX (voiceover): Deck by deck, section by section

[Corridor]
NEELIX (voiceover): The crew was losing control of Voyager. People were scattered throughout the ship with no idea what was happening.
KIM: What did you do that for?
CELES: Ensign, I'm so sorry! I, I thought, I thought you were a Hirogen, or a Borg.
KIM: And what gave you that idea?
CELES: It's dark. Your shadow.
KIM: Trust me, there are no aliens roaming the corridors.
CELES: You mean we haven't been boarded?
KIM: It's just a power failure.
CELES: Isn't that what they sometimes do? Cut the power?
KIM: What who sometimes does?
CELES: Hostile aliens. They might be trying to infiltrate the ship.
KIM: How long has it been since you've run into anyone else?
CELES: I don't know, four or five hours. I, I tried Sickbay, but it was deserted. Decks three and four are empty. I, I was on my way to the bridge. You're the first person I've seen.
KIM: Well, there's no one on the bridge either.
CELES: You see? Then maybe I was right. Maybe the reason we can't find anyone is because they've all been assimilated.
KIM: Slow down. There was an environmental failure on the bridge. That's why it's been evacuated. I don't know what happened in Sickbay, or on decks three and four, but I'm sure there's a perfectly reasonable explanation. Ah ha. No one's been assimilated.
CELES: Then where are they?
KIM: They've probably set up a temporary command post, most likely in Engineering. That's where I'm going.
CELES: Can I come with you?
KIM: Of course.
CELES: Ensign?
KIM: What?
CELES: Do you think we could stop by a weapons locker on the way?

[Mess hall]
NEELIX (voiceover): I still had no idea what was going on. I'd been waiting in the mess hall for more than four hours in the dark, cut off from the rest of the crew.
NEELIX: Is somebody there? Hello? Hello? Hello?

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Is somebody out there? Tom, if that's you, this isn't funny.
NEELIX: Argh! Stay away!
TUVOK: Calm yourself, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: You really shouldn't sneak up on people like that. I could have shot you.
TUVOK: Your restraint is commendable.
NEELIX: Is there a problem with the air supply?
TUVOK: An alien lifeform has seized control of Voyager's primary systems. It's flooded numerous sections with poisonous gas.
NEELIX: Are you saying that this alien lifeform is trying to kill us?
TUVOK: Its intentions aren't clear. However, we should evacuate.
NEELIX: Where to?
TUVOK: The Captain has established a secure command post in Engineering.

[Cargo Bay two]
MEZOTI: Were you scared?
NEELIX: Well, considering that Engineering was eight decks down and the only way to get there was to crawl through pitch-black Jefferies tubes, it's fair to say that I was never more frightened in my life.
ICHEB: You shouldn't have allowed yourself to be afraid.
NEELIX: Is that so.
ICHEB: Fear distracts people from accomplishing their goals.
NEELIX: Well, that's true, I suppose. On the other hand, fear can sometimes be very healthy.
MEZOTI: Explain.
NEELIX: Well, it keeps you alert, keeps you from putting yourself in unnecessary danger.
MEZOTI: I was afraid once.
ICHEB: You've been afraid many times.
NEELIX: Icheb. Do you want to tell us about it?
MEZOTI: It was when we were first disconnected from the hive mind, before Seven rescued us. I couldn't hear anyone else's thoughts anymore. I felt alone.
NEELIX: I can understand why that was frightening. When you're scared, it helps to have someone to talk to, doesn't it?
MEZOTI: Yes.
NEELIX: Of course, in my case, the only one person I had to talk to was Commander Tuvok.

[Jefferies tube]
NEELIX (voiceover): I tried passing the time with a little conversation but, as you've probably noticed, he's not exactly what you'd call chatty.
NEELIX: I'll bet Starfleet has specific procedures to deal with these kinds of situations. You know, something like protocol one zero zero five. In the event your starship is invaded by a hostile electromagnetic lifeform. What do you suppose that, er, that protocol might be, exactly?
TUVOK: Rest assured, this crew is doing everything possible to regain control of the ship.
NEELIX: You're right. I'm just being silly.
TUVOK: I concur.
NEELIX: Of course, the crew of the Salvoxia probably thought they were going to regain control of their ship, too. Did I ever tell you about the Salvoxia?
TUVOK: If I say yes, will it prevent you from telling the story?
NEELIX: It was a Talaxian freighter. Horrible tragedy. Happened nearly a century ago. After suffering a cascade failure, it began to lose life support generators, one by one. Pretty soon, there wasn't enough air left to sustain the entire crew so they began to draw lots. Can you imagine? Draw the short straw and you suffocate? Anyway, the air continued to diminish, and they kept drawing lots. The crew got smaller and smaller as they waited for someone to rescue them, but no one ever came. The Salvoxia drifted through space for the next eighty years, until somebody finally found her. Makes me short of breath just thinking about it.
TUVOK: Perhaps you should occupy your mind with pleasant thoughts before you hyperventilate.
NEELIX: Right. Pleasant thoughts. Pleasant thoughts.

[Cargo Bay two]
MEZOTI: What did the bodies like?
NEELIX: I beg your pardon?
MEZOTI: After eighty years. Were they decomposed?
ICHEB: They may have been preserved by the vacuum of space.
NEELIX: I shouldn't have told you that story. It's too gruesome.
ICHEB: I wonder what the crew of the Salvoxia did for food after their emergency rations were gone?
MEZOTI: Maybe they ate each other.
NEELIX: All right, that's enough. Now, where was I? We'd made it more than halfway to Engineering

[Jefferies tube]
NEELIX (voiceover): When we ran into an obstacle.
NEELIX: Commander!
NEELIX: What do we do now?
TUVOK: If I can access environmental controls, I may be able to vent the gas.
NEELIX: Is there another way around?
TUVOK: It would take several hours to reach Engineering by an alternate route. There is no guarantee we'd find a clear path.
NEELIX: Pleasant thoughts. Pleasant thoughts.
NEELIX (voiceover): While we were in the Jefferies tubes

[Engineering]
NEELIX (voiceover): A good number of the crew had gathered in Engineering.
CHAKOTAY: Ninety seven crewmen have been accounted for. They're in secure locations throughout the ship.
KIM: Neelix?
CHAKOTAY: No one's seen him.
KIM: I shouldn't have ordered him to stay in the mess hall.
JANEWAY: You were following procedure.
TORRES: Captain. Bad news. The lifeform's infiltrated the main computer matrix.
SEVEN: As long as it remained in the gel pack, there was a chance to contain it.
TORRES: But we can't purge it from the main computer without crashing the few systems we have left.
NEELIX (voiceover): Things were looking grim, but the captain was about to make a breakthrough that would change everything.
COMPUTER: Captain Janeway. Captain Janeway. Captain Janeway is in main Engineering.
KIM: Sorry, Captain, I know it's irritating. I'll try to shut it down.
JANEWAY: Hold on a minute. This is Captain Janeway. Respond.
COMPUTER: Authorisation code required.
JANEWAY: Janeway pi alpha.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: It's only a hunch, but I think this lifeform may be trying to communicate.
TORRES: Sounds like a comm. system malfunction to me.
JANEWAY: I'm not so sure. The lifeform's been moving from system to system. If it's intelligent, it may be learning how to use those systems in some rudimentary way. Are you attempting to communicate?
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
CHAKOTAY: Even if it understands what you're saying, it may not know how to respond.
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, can you call up the comm. system's syntax subroutines?
TORRES: I'll try.
JANEWAY: We're attempting to make it easier for you to speak to us. Try to access the database at engineering station three one.
COMPUTER: Database accessed.
JANEWAY: Why have you come aboard our ship?
COMPUTER: Captain Janeway, report to Astrometrics.
JANEWAY: Why do you want me to go there?
COMPUTER: Captain Janeway, report to Astrometrics.
JANEWAY: I guess I'll find out soon enough.
KIM: Captain, Astrometrics is flooded with nebular gas.
COMPUTER: Astrometrics life-support has been restored.
CHAKOTAY: It could be some kind of trap. This lifeform, whatever it is, has already injured at least eleven crewmen.
JANEWAY: I can try to establish a dialogue or I can let it take over my ship. Seven, you're with me.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.

[Cargo Bay two]
NEELIX: While Captain Janeway and Seven of Nine headed to Astrometrics, Tuvok was trying to ease my fears by guiding me through a meditation.

[Jefferies tube]
TUVOK: Concentrate on the rhythm of your breathing. Envision your lungs filled with light. Follow it back in time to a moment when you felt no fear. A moment of happiness, serenity.
NEELIX: My birthday dinner.
TUVOK: Describe it.

[Neelix's memory - Mess hall]
NEELIX (voiceover): I was surrounded by all my friends. They'd gotten together to cook me dinner. They prepared all my favorites. Steamed chadre kab, terra nut soufflé. I felt loved, appreciated, safe.

[Cargo Bay]
MEZOTI: Captain Janeway served you nebular gas?
NEELIX: No, of course not. It was just my imagination playing tricks on me during the meditation. My head was too full of scary images for me to relax. The captain, on the other hand, seemed to be getting things under control.

[Astrometrics lab]
COMPUTER: Review of navigational logs in progress.
JANEWAY: Are you searching for something?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: The nebula.
COMPUTER: Manual helm control enabled.
JANEWAY: You're returning control of the ship?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: You want me to take you back to the nebula?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: Well, why didn't you just say so in the first place?
SEVEN: Returning to the nebula is too dangerous. We'd risk invasion by other lifeforms.
JANEWAY: I'm beginning to think this was all an accident, not an invasion.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: Think about it. The EM surge didn't hit us until our Bussard Collectors destabilized the nebula, and then what happened?
SEVEN: The ship began experiencing random malfunctions.
JANEWAY: I'm not so sure they were random. Navigational sensors were fooling us into heading back toward the nebula and then, when Tom tried to resume course, he was attacked. This lifeform isn't trying to hurt us, it's trying to get home. Can you give us access to the bridge?
COMPUTER: Life support on the bridge has been restored. Level ten authorisation required.
SEVEN: Level ten?
JANEWAY: Captain's eyes only. It wants me to go alone.

[Bridge]
NEELIX (voiceover): The Captain and the lifeform had begun to establish a rapport, but the relationship was fragile.
JANEWAY: Is the viewscreen functioning normally?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry to tell you this, but your nebula is gone.
COMPUTER: Clarify.
JANEWAY: The gasses must have continued to dissipate after we left.
COMPUTER: Warning, Life support failure on all decks. Abandon ship. Abandon.

[Cargo Bay two]
NEELIX: Ship. Abandon ship.
MEZOTI: The creature was that angry?
ICHEB: Its home had been destroyed.
NEELIX: The lifeform wanted Voyager for itself, and it was going to kill anyone who remained on board. Captain Janeway's only chance of saving her crew was to try to reason with the creature.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Listen to me. I can still help you.
COMPUTER: Abandon ship.
JANEWAY: There are other class J nebulas. I'll find you one.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
JANEWAY: I'd be able to comply if you gave me access to Astrometrics.
COMPUTER: Warning, oxygen depletion in progress.
JANEWAY: Give me back helm control.
COMPUTER: Warning, helm circuits are overloading.
COMPUTER: Abandon ship.
JANEWAY: At least give me access to the comm. so I can warn my crew.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
NEELIX (voiceover): As the captain was facing one of her worst fears, losing her ship

[Jefferies tube]
NEELIX (voiceover): I was with Tuvok and about to face one of mine.
NEELIX: Tuvok! Lie still. I'll try to
TUVOK: Mister Neelix. Proceed without me.
NEELIX: I'm not leaving you here.
TUVOK: I am injured. Logic dictates that you take the mask and proceed to Engineering.
NEELIX: I don't care what logic dictates. This isn't the Salvoxia. We're not drawing lots.
TUVOK: I am giving you an order.
NEELIX: And I'm disobeying it. You're coming with me if I have to drag you by your pointy little ears.
NEELIX (voiceover): I had no choice. I had to control my fear.
NEELIX: Pleasant thoughts, pleasant thoughts.
NEELIX (voiceover): While we made our way to Engineering,

[Corridor]
NEELIX (voiceover): Captain Janeway tried to make the creature reconsider what it was doing.
JANEWAY: You're going to kill everyone on this ship. Do you understand what that means?
COMPUTER: To deprive of life. Extinguish.
JANEWAY: Yes, and if you extinguish us, you'll be extinguishing yourself. You need this crew.
COMPUTER: Clarify.
JANEWAY: The technology you're using needs to be maintained. Who do you think is going to do that when we are gone? Voyager's secondary systems have already begun to fail. In a few weeks, primary systems will start to go offline.
COMPUTER: Unable to confirm.
JANEWAY: Access the internal sensors. Run a ship-wide diagnostic. See for yourself.
COMPUTER: Abandon ship.
NEELIX (voiceover): The captain's rapport with the creature seemed to be breaking down

[Engineering]
NEELIX (voiceover): And she couldn't afford to wait any longer.
JANEWAY: I need everyone's attention. We're abandoning ship. Get to the escape pods.
TORRES: We may not be able to eject the pods.
JANEWAY: We'll push them out if we have to.
NEELIX: He needs medical attention.
KIM: He'll have to wait. We're abandoning ship.

[Corridor]
NEELIX (voiceover): The entire crew had to evacuate. The Delta Flyer and the shuttles were launched, followed by all but one of the escape pods.
CHAKOTAY: That's everyone but the Captain and First Officer.
JANEWAY: After you.
JANEWAY: I did what you asked, we're abandoning ship. What more do you want?
COMPUTER: Diagnostic completed. Secondary systems are offline. Primary systems at thirty two percent. Estimated time to failure, six days thirteen hours.
JANEWAY: That sounds about right.
COMPUTER: Captain Janeway, report to Engineering.
JANEWAY: Like hell I will.
JANEWAY: I won't be your prisoner. You'll have to kill me.
COMPUTER: Acknowledged.
COMPUTER: Captain Janeway, report to Engineering.
JANEWAY: Not until you restore life-support and give me back control of my ship.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
JANEWAY: Then we'll die here together. I'm guessing I've got about two more minutes and then you're on your own.
COMPUTER: Captain Janeway, report to Engineering.
JANEWAY: I told you. The only way I'm helping is if you return control of my ship.

[Cargo Bay two]
NEELIX: It looked like the creature was calling the captain's bluff. She was down to her last breath, but at the last moment

[Corridor]
COMPUTER: Access to all systems has been restored.

[Cargo Bay two]
NEELIX: It took almost two days for the crew to return to the ship. Eventually, an artificial environment was created in an isolated section of deck twelve. The creature's been living there ever since.
MEZOTI: I told you there was a monster on deck twelve.
ICHEB: Haven't you been listening? It's not a monster, it's an alien lifeform.
ICHEB: What was that?
MEZOTI: Maybe it's the alien lifeform coming to get us.
NEELIX: Haven't you learned anything about letting your imagination get the best of you?
NEELIX: There. That little jolt was probably nothing more than our friend leaving the ship to go to a new home that the captain found for him. Time to regenerate.
REBI: What if the lifeform didn't leave?.
AZAN: What if it wants revenge?
NEELIX: What if I told you I made up the whole thing?
MEZOTI: Naomi told me you always exaggerate.
ICHEB: I knew the story wasn't true, the moment you said the Bussard Collectors produced nadion emissions.
NEELIX: I should have known better than to try fooling the four of you. All right, in you go. Pleasant dreams.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: How are the children?
NEELIX: Tucked into their alcoves, safe and sound.
JANEWAY: I hope they weren't frightened.
NEELIX: Oh, why would they be frightened, Captain?
JANEWAY: They were in the dark for three hours.
NEELIX: Oh no, not to worry. I told them a story to pass the time.
PARIS: Let me guess. Mother Goose.
NEELIX: Certainly not. Some of those fairy tales can be frightening. Ogres and child eating monsters. Speaking of which, is everything okay?
JANEWAY: We're just taking some final readings before we resume course. Show him, Harry.
NEELIX: Well, I hope it lives happily ever after.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
QUEEN: Four of Twelve, subjunction of Unimatrix five two five. You have a disease. You're one of many with this sickness. We want to cure you but we need a better way to identify those with the mutation. Our testing method is too slow. It could take centuries to identify everyone. Help me find the interlink frequency that binds all of you together. Then we can put an end to this, quickly, efficiently. Comply.
QUEEN: I've disconnected you from the hive mind. You're alone. I know how uncomfortable that can be. Tell me what I want to know. tThen you can rejoin us.
DRONE: I don't know.
QUEEN: You must remember something.
DRONE: I don't remember.
QUEEN: The frequency.
DRONE: I don't remember.
QUEEN: Deactivate him. Wait. Dismantle him. Bring me his cortical array.

[Forest]
WOMAN: We'll save that for next time.
AXUM: Annika.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Another milestone. You've had your first dream.
SEVEN: I felt awake.
EMH: Dreams can often seem quite real. Tell me more about this forest.
SEVEN: It was familiar.
EMH: Perhaps your unconscious mind was drawing on a childhood memory.
SEVEN: I spoke to someone. He called me by my human name.
EMH: Did you recognize him?
SEVEN: He seemed familiar.
EMH: This could give us a fascinating glimpse into your unconscious mind. Any one of those images might have a symbolic meaning. The mysterious stranger, for example. Is he a father figure or does he represent a repressed desire for male companionship?
SEVEN: I don't wish to dream again. Please repair my cortical array.
EMH: This isn't a malfunction, Seven, it's a natural step in your human development. It might seem unsettling now, but you'll get used to it. Before you know it, you'll look forward to climbing into your alcove each night. This'll keep a record of your REM cycles.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: You're late, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Ma'am?
TUVOK: According to the ship's chronometer, by twenty two seconds.
PARIS: I'll make it up at the end of my shift.
CHAKOTAY: See that you do.
JANEWAY: Take your station.
CHAKOTAY: Open it, that's an order. Not only late but improperly dressed. That belongs on your collar, Mister Paris.
JANEWAY: Allow me. As ship's captain, I hereby reinstate you to the rank of Lieutenant, with all the privileges and responsibilities therein. Your performance on this ship over the past year has been exemplary. I expect more of the same.
PARIS: You won't be disappointed.
TORRES: Congratulations, Lieutenant.
KIM: I didn't notice a little box on my chair.
PARIS: Hiding a cake in the console?
CHAKOTAY: Looks like a distress call.
JANEWAY: Put it through.
CHAKOTAY: I'm getting a carrier wave but no message.
JANEWAY: Origin?
TUVOK: An asteroid approximately two light years from here.
JANEWAY: Yellow alert. Set a course.
PARIS: We're in range.
JANEWAY: Drop to impulse. On screen. Magnify.
TUVOK: I'm reading artificial structures. It's a colony of some kind.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. This is Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager. We received your distress call.
JANEWAY: Lifesigns?
TUVOK: None.
KIM: I'm detecting residual weapons signatures. They're Borg.
JANEWAY: Any vessels?
TUVOK: One. A Cube at the edge of this system.
JANEWAY: Resume our previous course, Mister Paris, warp six. Make a note in the ship's record. We responded to a distress call at oh nine hundred hours. Arrived at the colony two hours later. No survivors. We don't know who these people were, but we know the Borg destroyed them.

[Forest]
AXUM: Come with me.
SEVEN: I'm regenerating. This is only a dream.
AXUM: You're not dreaming. I brought you here. This is Unimatrix Zero.
SEVEN: There is no Unimatrix Zero. Who are you?
AXUM: Five of Twelve, secondary adjunct of Trimatrix nine four two. But when I'm here my name is Axum.
SEVEN: Axum.
AXUM: Sound familiar?
SEVEN: Yes.
AXUM: Good. It's starting to come back to you.
ALIEN CHILD: Is anyone here?
AXUM: Hello.
ALIEN CHILD: I think I'm lost.
AXUM: I'm Axum. This is Annika.
ALIEN CHILD: My father's ship started shaking. Men came aboard. They looked like machines. Will you help me find my father?
AXUM: I'll see what I can do. There are other children here. Would you like to meet them?
SEVEN: I just got here, too. This environment is intimidating, but I believe it's safe.
SEVEN: He was just assimilated.
AXUM: He's probably still in a maturation chamber.
SEVEN: Are you telling me this isn't a real place? It's some kind of virtual construct?.
AXUM: We come here during our regeneration cycles. We can exist as individuals here.
SEVEN: Unimatrix Zero.
AXUM: You used to come here, before you escaped the Collective. You have the recessive mutation, too. Don't you remember any of it?
SEVEN: No. What mutation?
AXUM: Only one out of a million drones has it.
SEVEN: Why did you bring me here now?
AXUM: The Collective has found a way to detect us. It's a lengthy procedure, but they've managed to identify and deactivate nearly two hundred of us over the last few months. It's only a matter of time before they find enough of us to isolate the interlink frequency. Once they've done that. You can help us stop them.
SEVEN: Clarify.
AXUM: We've designed a nanovirus that should mask the biochemical signature of the mutation, but we need someone to release it into the Collective.
SEVEN: You're already on a Borg vessel. Why don't you do it?
AXUM: After we've completed our regeneration cycle we have no memory of this place. You are not a part of the Collective anymore. You're our only connection to the real world.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]
QUEEN: Scan the node for residual harmonics. It's a shame you're not alive to experience disembodiment. It's the epitome of perfection. Give it to me. We have isolated the carrier band but it's useless to us without the precise frequency. We need additional data. Two more of the mutations have been discovered in spatial grid six four nine. Have their cortical nodes removed and analyzed. Bring me the results.

[Encampment]
AXUM: Unimatrix Zero is our sanctuary. When we're here, our thoughts are our own.
SEVEN: What was my function?.
AXUM: You're thinking like a Borg. Our only function here is to try and regain a fragment of the lives we lost when we were assimilated.
ALIEN CHILD: Mister Axum?
AXUM: Go introduce yourself. They won't mind.
GIRL: Hello, do you want to play?
ALIEN CHILD: Sure.
LAURA: Siral, over here. I was hoping you'd come. It's great to see you.
SIRAL: It's always good to be back.
SEVEN: I remember him.
AXUM: You were friends. You knew a lot of people here. You were a part of our lives for eighteen years.
SEVEN: I'm willing to help, but I can't do it alone. I'm part of a starship crew now. I'll have to inform my Captain. (The Klingon warrior approaches them.
KOROK: I told you not to bring her here.
AXUM: We can't do this by ourselves.
KOROK: It's too great a risk.
AXUM: We don't have a choice.
KOROK: You do not speak for all of us.
AXUM: What would you rather do? Have us wait until we're all discovered? You disappoint me. Where's your warrior spirit?
KOROK: PetaQ! I'll rip your heart out.
AXUM: Go ahead, kill me. I'll be back when I begin my next regeneration cycle. You can't stop me, Korok.
KOROK: If you come here again, you'll be putting your starship at risk and all of us as well.
LAURA: Shouldn't you be off sharpening your teeth?
SEVEN: I know you. Your name is Laura. You're human.
LAURA: I was assimilated at Wolf three five nine. It's good to see you again. But you look out of place. Your cybernetic implants.
SEVEN: Our Doctor was unable to remove all of my Borg components.
AXUM: You don't have to look that way here.
SEVEN: My appearance is irrelevant.
AXUM: No, it's not. They may have turned us into drones, but they can't change the essence of who we are. My cycle's about to end. Talk to your captain. We can't do this without

[Briefing room]
PARIS: Another round with the Borg?
SEVEN: We'd only need to infiltrate a single vessel.
PARIS: Oh, just one?
SEVEN: I am prepared to take a shuttle and do this alone.
KIM: No offense, but how do you know that this wasn't some kind of a dream?
EMH: Seven was wearing a cortical monitor. She never reached REM sleep. She wasn't dreaming.
SEVEN: Unimatrix Zero is real, and so are the people who go there. They need our help.
JANEWAY: What else can you tell us about this place? How many drones?
SEVEN: No one is certain. Axum told me there could be tens of
JANEWAY: Axum?
SEVEN: He's someone I used to know. He told me there could be tens of thousands, perhaps more.
JANEWAY: How was it created?
SEVEN: Some of them believe it began as a random malfunction during the assimilation of a single drone, and eventually spread to the others.
TORRES: Well, this is all very interesting, but are we sure it's worth putting our lives on the line?
SEVEN: It's my understanding that when we receive a distress call, we respond. Starfleet protocols.
KIM: She's right. This is no different.
JANEWAY: I understand your reluctance, but Seven's discovered a potential weakness in the Collective. Before we decide how to proceed I'd like to learn as much about it as we can.
CHAKOTAY: Too bad you don't have the luxury of an interlink node.
TUVOK: There is another possibility. A Vulcan technique known as the bridging of minds.
JANEWAY: Go on.
TUVOK: I would need to initiate a mind meld with both you and Seven, acting as a telepathic conduit.
EMH: You make it sound like a conference call. Captain, it is my professional opinion that we wait until
JANEWAY: Objection noted. I think you'll be turning in early tonight.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Stay at Yellow alert. Maintain long-range scans for Borg vessels. Any sign of trouble, you know where to find me.
CHAKOTAY: This will be one away mission for the record books.
JANEWAY: Mind melds. The last time I heard the words my mind to your mind, I had a headache for two weeks.
CHAKOTAY: I'm willing to volunteer if you'd rather hold down the fort.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your trying to protect me, but a chance to see this place? It's worth a headache.

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: How many times have you actually performed this bridging of heads?
TUVOK: Minds. Never.
EMH: Then how can you be certain it'll work?
TUVOK: Nothing is certain, Doctor. However, I once observed a Vulcan master perform the technique. I am reasonably confident I can duplicate his success.
EMH: Watching and doing are two different things.
TUVOK: As always, your logic is impeccable.
EMH: What a comfort.
TUVOK: We're ready, Captain.
JANEWAY: Let's do it.
TUVOK: As the conduit, I'll be aware of both your perceptions. If something goes wrong, I'll break the meld.
JANEWAY: Understood.
TUVOK: Your minds to my mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts. Your minds to my mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts.

[Forest]
SEVEN: Welcome to Unimatrix Zero.
JANEWAY: Seven?
SEVEN: Annika. That's what I'm called here.
JANEWAY: Drones?
SEVEN: Come on. Let's find Axum.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]
QUEEN: We're close. I can almost hear them. Bring us closer.
QUEEN: There. Amplify. Disrupt the frequency. It's not working. They're using a triaxillating modulation. You're making this very difficult. If we can't terminate their link then we'll simply have to pay them a visit.

[Forest]
AXUM: You can see why we want to protect this place.
JANEWAY: We're prepared to help you, but I'm concerned that we'd only be putting off the inevitable. Even if we succeeded and you could remain hidden for a year, ten years, the Borg would eventually find you again. Have you ever considered a more permanent solution?
AXUM: More permanent?
JANEWAY: You've got a remarkable sanctuary here, but that's all it is. Maybe it's time to stop hiding and find a way to fight back.
AXUM: That's not possible.
JANEWAY: If you could find a way to carry your individualities into the real world, to wake up from your regeneration cycles with your memories intact, you could begin to undermine the Borg's control over you.
SEVEN: It sounds like you're suggesting a civil war.
JANEWAY: I prefer to call it a resistance movement.
AXUM: That's very ambitious, Captain. But we can't retain our memories.
JANEWAY: Not yet. But we know a good deal about Borg technology. Maybe we could

[Borg Queen's Chamber]
QUEEN: We've found another. Spatial grid three two six, Cube one one eight four. Continue.
QUEEN: Welcome back. Spatial grid nine eight two, Cube four six one.
QUEEN: Janeway.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: How's your headache?

[Ready room]
CHAKOTAY: I'm guessing it didn't go well.
JANEWAY: Let's just say we ran into a little trouble. Have a seat, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I'd prefer to stand.
JANEWAY: The Collective's found a way to infiltrate Unimatrix Zero. It won't be long before they learn enough to destroy it from the inside out. I plan to stop them.
CHAKOTAY: What have you got in mind?
JANEWAY: The people there are vulnerable. They don't have the ability to take action in the real world. We're going to give them that ability.
CHAKOTAY: How?
JANEWAY: The Doctor and B'Elanna are working on it. I know what you're thinking. We'd be violating half a dozen Starfleet protocols. And if the Collective ever learned we were involved we'd be putting Voyager in the middle of a civil war. Valid objections. Chakotay, we've had our disagreements and there have been times when I've chosen to proceed without your support. But this can't be one of those times. I won't do this without my First Officer.
CHAKOTAY: The way I see it, risking the safety of Voyager is a small price to pay. If we help these people, this could be the turning point in our battle against the Borg.
JANEWAY: I'm glad we agree, because I almost talked myself out of it.
CHAKOTAY: Somehow I don't think you were ever in danger of doing that.
JANEWAY: You'll inform the crew?

[Sickbay]
EMH: This is the nanovirus Axum designed to prevent the Borg from detecting those with the genetic mutation. But I've modified it to nullify their cortical inhibitors instead. Once they're infected, they should retain their memories of Unimatrix Zero after they leave their alcoves.
SEVEN: Does that mean they'll be able to function as individuals? Stand up to the Collective?
EMH: There's no way to tell. This is highly experimental.
JANEWAY: How do we deploy it?
TORRES: Correct me if I'm wrong, but each Borg vessel has a device that links it to every other Borg ship.
SEVEN: The central plexus.
TORRES: If we can gain access to one of those and release the virus there, it should be transmitted throughout the Collective instantly.
JANEWAY: Any Borg activity in the region?
TORRES: It just dropped out of transwarp three point six light years from here.
SEVEN: This is a class four tactical vessel, heavily armed. The central plexus is protected by multi-regenerative security grids. We'd be detected long before we could reach it.
JANEWAY: Meet me in main Engineering. We're going to find a way in. Prepare the virus.
EMH: Aye, Captain.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: I think it's time for you to take another nap. Pay a visit to Unimatrix Zero. Tell our friends we haven't forgotten them. I couldn't help but notice you were a little different in Unimatrix Zero, and I don't mean your lack of Borg implants. You seemed more
SEVEN: Human.
JANEWAY: If you don't mind my saying so, it suited you.
SEVEN: I've been told I spent a great deal of time there. But since I don't remember Unimatrix Zero any more than I remember Earth, it's irrelevant.
JANEWAY: To you maybe, but if what I saw was any indication, Annika would disagree.

[Encampment]
AXUM: The Klingons have banded together and they're giving bat'leths to anybody who can handle one. Hirogen hunters are moving through the forest targeting drones, but we're losing people every hour.
SEVEN: Captain Janeway intends to keep her promise.
AXUM: This isn't your battle. You don't owe us anything.
SEVEN: Voyager won't abandon you.
AXUM: A gift from Korok. Takes some getting used to.
SEVEN: I'm sure you'll adapt.
LAURA: Eleven more drones, three hundred meters.

[Forest]
AXUM: Sorry.
SEVEN: That felt familiar. Our touching.
AXUM: I told you. We were friends.
SEVEN: Elaborate.
AXUM: Now is not the best time.
SEVEN: We were more than friends, weren't we? Why didn't you tell me?
AXUM: You'd forgotten. It wasn't my place.
SEVEN: How long?
AXUM: Six years. Only while we were regenerating. A very memorable six years. For me, anyway.
SEVEN: I should return to Voyager.
AXUM: Annika.
SEVEN: My name is Seven of Nine.

[Engineering]
EMH: Can't we find another Borg ship? A Sphere, maybe? Something less imposing?
TORRES: I rechecked long range sensors. There's nothing.
JANEWAY: This is our target. You'll keep a transporter lock on me. Once I make it to the central plexus and release the virus, you can beam me back.
EMH: In how many pieces? It's ridiculous.
SEVEN: Agreed. I should go. I'm the only one with experience.
JANEWAY: You're our only connection to Unimatrix Zero. You're needed here. It was my decision to help these people. This is my responsibility.
TUVOK: Starfleet Tactical Directive thirty six. The captain will not engage a hostile force without the protection of a security officer. The probability of success is greater if there are two of us.
TORRES: Make that three. If you're going to pull this off you'll need an engineer in there.
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Tactical directive thirty six A.
PARIS: There is no directive thirty six A.
TORRES: There is now.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the offer. But if that Cube attacks Voyager, you'll be needed here. Now you have your orders. Set a course, Mister Paris.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Remember when I said I didn't have any objections?
JANEWAY: Can't this wait till I get back?
CHAKOTAY: I realize I'm not going to talk you out of this, but I'll be damned if you're going in there alone.
JANEWAY: We've got a lot of work to do, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: You said you wanted my support. Then take Tuvok and B'Elanna with you.
JANEWAY: And if I don't?
CHAKOTAY: I may only be First Officer, but I still pull a few strings around here. The Doctor could be persuaded to question your medical fitness.
JANEWAY: I was hoping for your unconditional support.
CHAKOTAY: This is the best I can do.
JANEWAY: Tell them to pack light.
JANEWAY: Janeway to bridge. Report.

[Bridge]
KIM: Someone's trying to tap into the main computer.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Source?
KIM: It's some kind of transwarp signal. It's activating the comm. system.
KIM: Captain,

[Corridor]
KIM (voiceover): I think it's for you.
QUEEN (screen): Captain.
JANEWAY: It's been a long time. How are things in the Collective?
QUEEN (screen): Perfect, for the most part. Voyager?
JANEWAY: Never better.
QUEEN (screen): I understand you've established contact with Starfleet. Perhaps you'll be getting home sooner than you expected.
JANEWAY: Perhaps.
QUEEN (screen): We could help you.
CHAKOTAY: How so?.
QUEEN (screen): Transwarp technology. You'd find that we can be quite accommodating, but we'd expect the same in return.
JANEWAY: I'm not sure I know what you mean.
QUEEN (screen): You know exactly what I mean. Tend to your own crew. Stay away from things that don't concern you.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I can't do that, but thanks for the offer.
QUEEN (screen): I won't be as accommodating next time. Reconsider.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry.
QUEEN (screen): We'll see you soon, Harry.
KIM: What did she mean by that?
CHAKOTAY: Why the stab at diplomacy?
JANEWAY: She's trying to find out what we're up to. She's worried. Have B'Elanna and Tuvok meet me in Sickbay.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Watch the starboard plasma injectors. They tend to run a little hot at high impulse.
TORRES: I'll keep an eye on it.
PARIS: The warp matrix is out of alignment.
TORRES: By point three microns. Since when are you so meticulous?
PARIS: Since you volunteered for this insane mission. You know, I could sabotage the helm. You'd never make it out the launch doors.
TORRES: Then I'd have to put you on report. You might lose that new pip of yours.
PARIS: That'd be a small price to pay.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: We're in visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen. Magnify.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
TORRES (voiceover): The Delta Flyer is ready for launch.
JANEWAY: On my way. Guess I'd better be going, huh?
CHAKOTAY: Anything you'd like done around here while you're gone? Gravity plating recalibrated, carpets cleaned?
JANEWAY: Surprise me. You have the bridge.

[Settlement]
SEVEN: You need to prepare the others. When they leave their alcoves they may be startled, disoriented. But they have to behave like drones or we could all be exposed.
LAURA: Our ships are scattered across the galaxy. Most of us will be the only drone on board who knows about this place.
KOROK: She's right. What can we hope to achieve?
AXUM: We should each gather as much tactical data as we can. What kind of ship we're on, its armaments, location. Then we'll coordinate our efforts from here. If all goes well, we'll be working very closely together.
SEVEN: As colleagues, nothing more. Our previous friendship
AXUM: Yes?
SEVEN: It's irrelevant.
AXUM: Irrelevant? Well, now that I'll be able to retain my memory, I'll keep that in mind.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Report.
KIM: Direct hit to their shield emitters. No damage.
CHAKOTAY: Increase phaser yield. Where's the Flyer?
PARIS: They're approaching. Heading zero one seven mark three.

[Delta Flyer]
JANEWAY: Status?
TUVOK: Voyager has sustained damage, but they are continuing their assault.
TORRES: Come on, Chakotay.
TUVOK: One of the Cube's shield grids is fluctuating. Ventral axis, secondary emitter.
JANEWAY: Cut primary power. Thrusters only.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]
QUEEN: Tactical cube one three eight is under attack.

[Bridge]
KIM: Our forward shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: The Flyer?
PARIS: They're closing. Fifty kilometers.
CHAKOTAY: Maintain fire.
PARIS: Thirty kilometers, twenty. They're in range.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]
QUEEN: Enhance grid six one one nine.
QUEEN: Captain, I expected something more cunning from you.

[Delta Flyer]
TORRES: It's time.
JANEWAY: Their ventral shield grid?
TUVOK: Still fluctuating at a rate of point zero six terahertz.
JANEWAY: Align our transporters to match.
TUVOK: Aye.

[Bridge]
PARIS: They've detected them.
EMH: They're inside.
KIM: Direct hit to the port nacelle. We're venting plasma.
PARIS: Should I back off?
CHAKOTAY: No. We need to stay close.

[Borg Cube]
TORRES: They've adapted.

[Bridge]
KIM: Hull breach, deck eleven.
PARIS: They're targeting our warp core.
EMH: No change yet.

[Borg Cube]
JANEWAY: We'll have to take the long way around.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.

[Bridge]
EMH: Their lifesigns are destabilizing.
CHAKOTAY: So far, so good. You can take us out of here now, Tom. To Be Continued...

[Borg Cube]
TUVOK: Lieutenant.
TORRES: I'm all right.
TUVOK: You've been given a subvocal processor.
TORRES: I can live with it. The captain?
TUVOK: We were separated. I don't know where they took her. We must proceed to the central plexus.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Time.
PARIS: Seventeen minutes. We should have heard something by now.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor?
EMH: Their higher brain functions are stable.
KIM: The Cube's changing course. New heading, one twenty one mark six.
PARIS: Matching course and speed.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: The damage to their propulsion system is regenerating. They'll be capable of transwarp in less than two hours.
CHAKOTAY: I want you inside Unimatrix Zero. When the virus is released, your friends there will be the first to know. Problem?
SEVEN: No. But I wouldn't call them my friends.
CHAKOTAY: Acquaintances then. If you're having issues with these people I suggest you set them aside.
SEVEN: Understood.

[Forest]
KOROK: Tell your hunters to patrol the north-eastern perimeter. More drones were spotted there.
HIROGEN: Understood.
KOROK: Where's that virus you promised?
SEVEN: Captain Janeway is deploying it now.
KOROK: Good. The Borg have increased their attacks here. They're identifying us one by one. If you're looking for your mate, he's not here.
SEVEN: He's not my mate. He must not be regenerating.
KOROK: That or he's dead. He should have been here hours ago. No one's seen him. If he died in battle, I'm sure it was honorable. Here. help me.
KOROK: It's obvious your heart is in conflict.
SEVEN: My heart is functioning perfectly.
KOROK: Some advice from a warrior in the bedchamber as well as the battlefield. At times like these you must treat your heart as the enemy so you won't be distracted in battle.
SEVEN: I'll keep that in mind. Has the virus been deployed?
ALIEN MAN: I'm not sure.
SEVEN: Do you remember anything? Your location? What ship you're on?
ALIEN MAN: No, nothing.

[Borg Cube]
TORRES: The central plexus is through here.
TORRES: Those must be the shield emitters that Seven told us about.
TORRES: We need to get through that hatch.
TUVOK: I will attempt to deactivate him.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: What's left of her. How are you holding up?
TORRES: Fine.
JANEWAY: I can't access the plexus without shutting down the power grid for this section. That's bound to draw attention. Is there another way in?
TORRES: The primary access port. I think it's isolated from the main power grid.
JANEWAY: Where is it?
TORRES: About thirty meters from here.
JANEWAY: Let's take a look. Tuvok. Commander.
TUVOK: I can hear the Collective.
JANEWAY: The neural suppressant must be wearing off.
TUVOK: I'll be all right.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]
QUEEN: I heard him. The Vulcan. But he's gone. Why? Why can't I hear the others?

[Forest]
AXUM: Leave this one to me. Comfortable?
SEVEN: Release me.
AXUM: Easier said than done. I think I designed this trap a little too well. What are you doing out here?
SEVEN: Looking for you. Korok was concerned.
AXUM: That doesn't sound like Korok.
SEVEN: He said you were missing.
AXUM: As you can see, I've been busy setting traps.
SEVEN: Not the most sophisticated technology.
AXUM: Seems to work. Hold on.
SEVEN: I should return to the camp. Wait for word on the virus.
AXUM: I'll go with you. In case you run into any more trouble.
SEVEN: As you wish.
AXUM: I'm sure Korok will be glad to see me.

[Borg cube]
QUEEN (voiceover): Tuvok. Where are you, Tuvok?
JANEWAY: Commander?
TUVOK: Stardate 38774. Vulcanis lunar colony. The time and place of my birth. Recalling the details of my life helps me remain focused. Captain, if I succumb to the Collective, I will pose a security risk. You must be prepared to deactivate me.
JANEWAY: Without the Doctor's help, that could kill you. Stay focused. Stay Tuvok. That's an order.
TORRES: Captain, I've bypassed the access codes.
TORRES: Welcome to the central plexus.
QUEEN (voiceover): Tuvok. Where are you, Tuvok?

[Ready room]
PARIS: Busy?
CHAKOTAY: What's on your mind.
PARIS: The away team. The plan was to give them two hours. It's been two and a half.
CHAKOTAY: The Doctor's keeping an eye on them. We'll give it a little more time. Unfortunately, not everything goes according to plan.
PARIS: You know, it occurs to me that, with you in command and Tuvok off the ship, that makes me acting First Officer. Technically speaking.
CHAKOTAY: What's your point?
PARIS: Well, it's my duty to give you an opinion. And in my opinion I think we should pull them out now before it's too late.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your diligence. But I've made my decision. We wait.
PARIS: How long? A day? A week?
CHAKOTAY: As long as it takes to complete the mission.
PARIS: This mission isn't worth their lives.
CHAKOTAY: You've made your point.
PARIS: Apparently not.
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant. A First Officer could get in a lot of trouble for talking to his captain that way.
PARIS: Well, I've learned from the best.
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your concerns, Tom, but I need your support on this.
PARIS: Aye, sir.

[Borg Cube - Central Plexus]
JANEWAY: Download the virus.
QUEEN (voiceover): Tuvok.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
TUVOK: T'Paal. We share your memories. You are part of us now.

[Borg Cube - Central Plexus]
TUVOK: Don't resist.

[Bridge]
EMH: There's a problem with Commander Tuvok. His synaptic pathways are destabilizing.
CHAKOTAY: If I decide to move in closer, I assume my First Officer would concur.
PARIS: You assume correctly.

[Borg Cube - Central Plexus]
JANEWAY: We have to get out of this chamber and contact Voyager.
JANEWAY: You're Commander Tuvok, Tactical Officer of the starship Voyager. I'm your captain. Step aside, that's an order.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
QUEEN: She's irrelevant.

[Borg Cube - Central Plexus]
TUVOK: Captain, you must deactivate me.
TUVOK: My designation is Three of Twelve.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
QUEEN: Where are you, Tuvok? The central plexus.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Range, forty thousand kilometers.
CHAKOTAY: Harry?
KIM: Too much shielding around the central plexus. I can't get a lock.
CHAKOTAY: Stay on it. Closer.

[Borg Cube]
TORRES: This way.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]
QUEEN: Back so soon?

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Target their shield generators. Stand by phasers.
PARIS: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Shields to full. Brace for impact.
KIM: Someone's accessing our tactical controls. Our shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: Evasive maneuvers.
EMH: Sensors are offline. I've lost the away team.
KIM: Hull breaches, decks five, six, seven.
CHAKOTAY: Reverse course.
PARIS: We can't just leave them.
CHAKOTAY: The Borg have our access codes. Get us out of here.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]
QUEEN: Thank you, Tuvok. I'm losing voices. Five in spatial grid ninety six, twelve in grid one eight two. Hundreds now. Thousands.
QUEEN: I can't hear you. Why can't I hear you? You've disconnected from the hive mind. Explain. Comply.
DRONE: No!
DRONE: I'm not alone. You can't stop us all.
QUEEN: I altered the transmission to restore your original appearance. I know now vain humans can be.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Why am I here?
QUEEN: You've caused a great deal of suffering. I wanted you to see for yourself. You are the cause of his death, Captain. You disconnected him from the hive mind.
HOLO-JANEWAY: You didn't have to kill him.
QUEEN: He was confused, irrational. I had no choice. Many more will die unless you tell me how to counteract the virus.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Sorry, we didn't think to develop an antidote.
QUEEN: I'll assimilate Voyager, then. Your Doctor created the pathogen. He can find a cure.
HOLO-JANEWAY: My First Officer has orders to delete the Doctor's program if you go anywhere near

[Borg Cube]
JANEWAY: Voyager. The resistance is already underway. It won't be long before thousands of drones begin to fight back.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]
QUEEN: They will fail.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Maybe. Probably. But a lot of damage will be done before they do.
QUEEN: Yes, a lot of damage. Spatial grid nine four, cube six three zero. Complement sixty four thousand drones. But I can no longer hear three of them. No doubt they've joined your resistance. Are they trying to sabotage the vessel and liberate others? I don't know, because I can no longer hear them. Initiate self-destruct.
QUEEN: An effective solution, don't you agree? Spatial grid zero nine one, sphere eight seven eight. Complement eleven thousand drones. Only one is silent. But I have no choice. I must silence all of them. I know how this must upset you, Captain. As a Starfleet officer, you value all life. Even drones. How many more are you willing to sacrifice? Thousands? Millions? You can put an end to this. I want you to go on a diplomatic mission. It's one of your primary functions, isn't it? Negotiations?
HOLO-JANEWAY: Go on.
QUEEN: Tell them to rejoin the Collective, and I'll stop the destruction.
HOLO-JANEWAY: They will never agree to that.
QUEEN: They're individuals now. They have a choice. What are you afraid of, Captain? That they may cooperate? You've been waiting for a chance to damage the Borg. Now you've found one. You're only using them.
HOLO-JANEWAY: If you really wanted to negotiate, you'd visit Unimatrix Zero. You found a way to send drones. Surely you could go yourself. Or are you afraid that a taste of individuality might make you realize it's something worth fighting for?
QUEEN: Comply or you will be responsible for many more deaths.
HOLO-JANEWAY: You'll have to destroy the entire Collective to find them all.

[Bridge]
SEVEN: Several drones have reported that they retained their memories of Unimatrix Zero after their regeneration ended. The virus has been deployed.
CHAKOTAY: Good. We're going to need all the help we can get. The away team's still trapped on that Cube.
KIM: And as you may have noticed, we're in no shape to mount a rescue.
PARIS: Can you get back in? Find out if they have anybody else aboard this Cube?
CHAKOTAY: If they do, tell them to hurry. They're the only allies we've got.
EMH: I'd like to make a few adjustments to your alcove before you return.

[Cargo Bay two]
EMH: When this crisis ends I'll come up with a more permanent solution, so you can spend more time in Unimatrix Zero. You're in a unique position. Not many of us get to lead a double life.
SEVEN: When this crisis ends I intend to sever my link to Unimatrix Zero.
EMH: May I ask why?
SEVEN: I'm having difficulties with one of the people there.
EMH: Mister Axum? Whenever you mention his name, your pupils dilate by nearly a millimeter, blood flow increases to your facial capillaries. Both are consistent with an emotional response.
SEVEN: Axum and I apparently had a relationship.
EMH: Oh. Romantic? There go those pupils again.
SEVEN: Your diagnosis is accurate.
EMH: Well, how ironic. All this time we've been trying to develop that aspect of your humanity, and it's been there all along.
SEVEN: Not any more.
EMH: My readings say otherwise. You're very particular about who you choose to spend time with, Seven. No doubt that's why you and I have become friends. If you were involved with Axum once, doesn't that suggest he's a worthwhile individual?
SEVEN: He does possess commendable qualities.
EMH: Coming from you, that's high praise. There's nothing wrong with feeling ambivalent, Seven. After all, you're in the middle of a civil war. But eventually, you may want to give this romance a second chance. Who knows? You may even get to meet him in person someday.
EMH: I'll say this for your Mister Axum. he's a very lucky man.

[Settlement]
AXUM: The Collective has found a new way to attack us. Eleven ships have self-destructed in the last three hours.
KOROK: We need to coordinate a battle plan. A way to strike at the heart of the Collective.
AXUM: Our target should be the primary Unicomplex. If we can disrupt the Queen's control of the hive mind, it'll give us a chance to organize, build up a fighting force.
SEVEN: There is one more objective. The Voyager away team.
KOROK: They fought like warriors. Their sacrifice will not be forgotten.
SEVEN: We can still rescue them.
AXUM: She's right. They risked their lives for us. Now it's our turn.
KOROK: There's no time.
AXUM: It's a matter of honor, Korok. I thought you of all people would understand that.
KOROK: I'll see if any of our people are on a vessel near theirs.
SEVEN: Thank you.
AXUM: It's the least we can do.
SEVEN: What's wrong?
AXUM: It turns out I'm on a scout ship patrolling the border of fluidic space. On the other side of the galaxy.
SEVEN: I was hoping we'd be able to meet one day in the real world.
AXUM: Me too. There are things I can do where I am. I'll try to contact species 8472, see if I can persuade them to join the fight.
SEVEN: Given their history with the Borg, I'm sure they'll be eager. I guess this rules out Vorothon Gorge.
AXUM: Gorge?
SEVEN: It was at the top of our list of things to see in the real world if we were ever freed from the Collective. Don't you remember?
AXUM: We could add fluidic space to our list. We still have Unimatrix Zero.
SEVEN: It was sufficient before.
AXUM: And now?

[Forest]
BOY: Where are you?
BOY (voiceover): Over here.
QUEEN: Don't be frightened. Stand up, let me look at you. Comply
ALIEN BOY: You're one of the machine people. You're trying to hurt us.
QUEEN: That's the last thing I want to do. I'm here to help you. All of you.
ALIEN BOY: They said you want to assim. Assima.
QUEEN: Assimilate you. Yes. But that's nothing to be afraid of. You like having friends, don't you? Assimilation turns us all into friends. In fact, it brings us so close together we can hear each other's thoughts.
ALIEN BOY: Is that fun?
QUEEN: Yes. It's fun. I was just about your age when I was assimilated. I was worried then, too. But when I began to hear the others, hear their thoughts, I wasn't afraid anymore.
ALIEN BOY: Don't you miss your parents?
QUEEN: They're here, with me. Part of us. I can hear them right now. Would you like to be with your parents? They miss you. They want to see you.
ALIEN BOY: Can I talk to them?
QUEEN: Soon. But first I'd like to see more of this.
ALIEN BOY: There's a place where you can see the whole forest.
QUEEN: Show me.
ALIEN BOY: It's pretty, isn't it?

[Borg Queen's Chamber]
QUEEN: I took your advice, Captain. I paid a visit to Unimatrix Zero. It's far more primitive than I expected. I don't understand how anyone could prefer a crude environment to Borg perfection.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Spend a little more time there. You might find out.
QUEEN: I've seen enough. It's an illusion.
HOLO-JANEWAY: Even so, the people who go there are real, and they won't give it up without a fight.
QUEEN: They'll fail. I thought you'd like to see our latest accomplishment. Recognize it?
HOLO-JANEWAY: No.
QUEEN: I think you do. It's your nanovirus, with a few modifications. We've reprogrammed it to target your mutated drones. Once it's released, it will erode their autonomic functions. They will die within minutes.
HOLO-JANEWAY: You have no way to deliver it. Those drones have been separated from the hive mind. They aren't linked to the central plexus anymore.
QUEEN: No. But there's another way I can reach them. I'm prepared to go back to Unimatrix Zero and release it myself. But I'm willing to reconsider. It all depends on you.
JANEWAY: Me?
QUEEN: If they rejoin the Collective, I'll spare their lives. They listen to you. Tell them it's time to come home. You were responsible for many deaths. Now you can save thousands. Decide.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Let's try this again. Ensign?
KIM: The warp core is online. Navigational array. Shields at twenty percent.
NEELIX: We've got sensors. Short range only.
CHAKOTAY: It's a start. Try to get a fix on the away team.
PARIS: Now what?
KIM: Someone's tapping into our holographic systems.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM: It's a Borg signal.
EMH (voiceover): Doctor to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
EMH (voiceover): Someone's here to see you and Seven, Commander. You'd better come down here right away.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn?
HOLO-JANEWAY: The Borg have established this link so I can propose a compromise.
CHAKOTAY: We're listening.

[Borg Cube]
JANEWAY: They've developed a nanovirus that can kill every Borg with the mutation. They're prepared to release it inside Unimatrix Zero unless all the drones there return to the Collective

[Sickbay]
HOLO-JANEWAY: For reassimilation immediately.
SEVEN: That's not compromise, that's surrender.
HOLO-JANEWAY: I won't be responsible for any more deaths. At least they'll survive as drones. Tell them Unimatrix Zero can no longer exist. That's an order. Have I made myself clear, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Yes, Captain.
EMH: We did our best.
CHAKOTAY: It's not over yet, Doctor. Can you disrupt the interlink frequency for Unimatrix Zero?
EMH: Commander, the Captain gave us a direct order.
CHAKOTAY: Yes, she did, but not the one you think. Seven?
SEVEN: I believe I can, but why?
CHAKOTAY: Didn't you hear? Unimatrix Zero can no longer exist. Chakotay to the bridge. Report.

[Bridge]
PARIS: A transwarp conduit just opened off our port bow.
NEELIX: Lieutenant?
KIM: They're on an intercept course.
PARIS: Evasive maneuvers. Battle stations.
NEELIX: They're hailing us.
PARIS: Open a channel.
KOROK (screen): Starship Voyager, I am General Korok. This vessel is now under my command. We've come to join you in battle.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]
QUEEN: Your crewmates are coming to retrieve you. You were wise to comply.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Seven of Nine. We're almost in range.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Stand by. I've isolated the frequency.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Get Korok.

[Korok's Sphere]
KOROK: Our emitters are fully charged.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): You should be receiving the interlink frequency.
KOROK: We have it.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Wait for my signal.

[Settlement]
AXUM: We have to end our regeneration cycles. We can't be here when it happens.
LAURA: Will there be anything left?
AXUM: I know we're being asked to make a sacrifice, but it's the only way.

[Bridge]
PARIS: We're in range.
CHAKOTAY: Full power to the shields. All weapons online. Voyager to Korok. It's time.

[Settlement]
AXUM: You must go.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Bridge, it's working. Unimatrix Zero is shutting down.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. Voyager to Korok. Now.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]
QUEEN: What are they doing?
HOLO-JANEWAY: You wanted to destroy Unimatrix Zero. We're just lending you a hand.
QUEEN: Get me the virus.
HOLO-JANEWAY: You're too late. There's no one left to infect.
QUEEN: This is your compromise?
HOLO-JANEWAY: I don't compromise with Borg.

[Korok's Sphere]
KOROK: Match their shield modulations and fire.

[Bridge]
NEELIX: I'm picking up the away team.
KIM: I'm isolating their bio-signatures.
CHAKOTAY: Get a lock.
KIM: I still can't penetrate their inner shields.
CHAKOTAY: Voyager to Korok. Status?

[Korok's Sphere]
KOROK: Patience, Commander. They're trying to remodulate their secondary shield grid.

[Bridge]
KOROK (voiceover): I'm attempting to compensate.

[Settlement]
AXUM: You shouldn't be here.
SEVEN: Neither should you.
SEVEN: I've wasted our time together.
AXUM: No, you didn't. It gave us a chance to fall in love again.
SEVEN: We've lost our only way to be together.
AXUM: No. I'll find you.
SEVEN: Axum.
AXUM: I'll find you.

[Korok's Sphere]
KOROK: Shields in sub-grid forty two are destabilizing. Target that section.

[Borg Queen's Chamber]
QUEEN: Initiate self-destruct.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Their shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: Energize. Chief medical officer's log, stardate 54014.4. It's been forty eight hours since the away team returned to Voyager. Thanks to the neural suppressant, I've been able to extract most of their Borg technology. The Captain and B'Elanna are on the mend, but Tuvok will need a little more time to recover.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: General Korok is finished with his repairs. He's already been contacted by another Borg vessel in the region. It's also under the control of former drones.
JANEWAY: The Doctor removed my spinal clamps but it'll be a while before I'm playing hoverball again. If I ever imply it's been easy on you these last few years, remind me about today.
SEVEN: Noted.
JANEWAY: Well, Unimatrix Zero may be gone but it looks like the resistance is alive and kicking. With any luck, the Collective may never be the same.
SEVEN: Korok said he would try to maintain contact, keep us informed.
JANEWAY: Have you heard from your friend?
SEVEN: No. But I don't expect to. Axum's vessel is in a remote sector of the Beta Quadrant. If I ever imply that he was nothing more than a friend, remind me about today.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 54129.4. It's a bittersweet day for the crew of Voyager. We've finally found a home for some of our most precious cargo.

[Transporter room]
WYSANTI: Thank you again for taking care of them, Captain. We're very grateful.
JANEWAY: We're just glad that Rebi and Azan will have a chance to grow up with their own people, and that you've been kind enough to let Mezoti join them.
MEZOTI: You can still come with us.
ICHEB: And you can still stay on Voyager.
MEZOTI: Adapting to your absence will be difficult.
ICHEB: I'll miss you, too.
SEVEN: It's time.
MEZOTI: I've been studying all available data relevant to this species, as you recommended.
SEVEN: Familiarizing yourself with their culture will help you adapt.
MEZOTI: On Wysanti, it is not customary to say goodbye but, I think I prefer the human way.
JANEWAY: Energize.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: We should deactivate the children's alcoves.
ICHEB: Right now?
SEVEN: They're a drain on Voyager's power reserves. Is there a problem?
ICHEB: It just seems like an insufficient amount of time has passed.
SEVEN: You're having an emotional response to the children's departure. They'll be fine. We should be happy for them.
ICHEB: Seven?
SEVEN: Yes?
ICHEB: You're crying.
SEVEN: My ocular implant must be malfunctioning.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Crying is nothing to be ashamed of, Seven. You should have seen me the first time I heard Puccini's Tosca in the holodeck. I sobbed through the entire third act.
SEVEN: You're a hologram. You can't cry.
EMH: Ordinarily. But Lieutenant Torres enhanced my emotional subroutines so I could truly appreciate the performance.
SEVEN: Then your reaction was the result of a technological enhancement, just as mine was the result of a technological malfunction.
EMH: Saying goodbye to the children was a traumatic experience. Crying was a normal response.
SEVEN: Except that I was in complete control of my emotions.
EMH: Hmm. It seems I owe you an apology. According to this, your tears were the result of a glitch in your primary cortical node. Have you experienced any other malfunctions lately? Headache? Dizziness? Diminished motor function?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: Really? Then you won't mind if I check the bio-monitors in your alcove, just to be sure?
SEVEN: I've experienced an occasional headache.
EMH: Why didn't you come to see me?
SEVEN: The malfunctions have not affected my work.
EMH: Seven, if you're having problems, you need to let me know.
SEVEN: If it'll make you feel better, I'll be more forthcoming in the future.
EMH: You're all heart. I'll schedule some follow-up tests and make my report to the Captain.
SEVEN: I'd prefer to keep this between us. I don't want to worry the Captain.
EMH: We've always kept her informed of your medical needs.
SEVEN: It was my understanding that all members of this crew have the right to doctor-patient confidentiality.
EMH: If you want to keep this between us, that's where it'll stay.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Have you finished charting the nebula in sector nine four nine?
ICHEB: Several hours ago. I've been thinking. While I'm grateful for the opportunity to assist you in Astrometrics, I'd like to take on more challenging assignments.
SEVEN: I can assign you additional diagnostics.
ICHEB: That's not what I meant. I want to work on the bridge.
SEVEN: You don't have the proper training.
ICHEB: That's why I'd like to take the entrance exam for Starfleet Academy. I could forward it to Earth in the next datastream transmission. If I pass, I could take the basic classes from Commander Tuvok. He was an instructor at the Academy.
SEVEN: Your plan is ambitious.
ICHEB: Then you think it's a good idea? You could take the classes with me. Earn your own commission.
SEVEN: I believe I've already assimilated enough Starfleet training.
ICHEB: I'll need a letter of recommendation from the captain.
SEVEN: I'll speak to her.
SEVEN: I have work to complete in the Cargo bay. Can you finish here?
ICHEB: Of course.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Computer, initiate regeneration cycle.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
SEVEN: Why?
COMPUTER: The interface is incompatible.
SEVEN: Run a diagnostic of alcove zero one.
COMPUTER: Diagnostic complete. Alcove zero one is operating within normal parameters.
SEVEN: Initiate regeneration cycle.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
SEVEN: Clarify.
COMPUTER: Your cortical node is malfunctioning.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Seven, I didn't see you.
SEVEN: I was just leaving.
NEELIX: Before breakfast?
SEVEN: What time is it?
NEELIX: Oh five hundred. Don't tell me you've been here all night.
SEVEN: I was unable to regenerate.
NEELIX: Anything on your mind?
SEVEN: My alcove is malfunctioning.
NEELIX: Well, you should ask B'Elanna to take a look at it.
SEVEN: I didn't want to wake her.
NEELIX: What's all this?
SEVEN: Nutritional supplements. I thought they would compensate.
NEELIX: Your own recipe?
SEVEN: It's a mixture of metabolic enzymes and protein extract.
NEELIX: Let me make you one of my Talaxian omelets. It may not have as many enzymes, but it'll taste better.
SEVEN: That won't be necessary. I think I'll take your advice and wake Lieutenant
NEELIX: Seven! Neelix to Sickbay, medical emergency!

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: You lost consciousness in the mess hall. Your body's begun to reject your implants.
EMH: I'm afraid it's a result of that glitch we found in your cortical node. Apparently, it's more serious than we thought.
SEVEN: The node is destabilizing.
EMH: It's no longer able to regulate your implants. They're shutting down one by one.
SEVEN: When you've disconnected implants in the past, I've always adapted.
EMH: Minor implants. An assimilation tubule here, a few nanoprobes there. Nothing crucial to your human physiology. But these implants control your vital functions.
SEVEN: And without my cortical node to regulate them, I'll die. Correct?
SEVEN: Borg technology is highly adaptive. My cortical node will repair itself in time.
EMH: I don't think so, Seven. If anything, the deterioration is accelerating.
JANEWAY: You'll have to stay here for observation.
SEVEN: I think I've been sufficiently observed.
JANEWAY: Would you excuse us, please?
JANEWAY: I'm sorry for what's happening. You have every right to be angry, but that isn't going to help us solve this problem.
SEVEN: The node will correct itself.
JANEWAY: Suppose it doesn't, for the sake of argument. Is it possible to replicate a new one?
SEVEN: The technology is too complex.
JANEWAY: What if this had happened when you were part of the Collective? How would the Borg have repaired the damage?
SEVEN: They wouldn't have. Trying to repair a node would be a futile exercise. The Borg would simply replace it.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Harry, we passed a Borg debris field six or seven days ago just outside the Yontasa Expanse. See if you can find it on long range sensors.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
CHAKOTAY: It's not every day we go looking for the Borg. What's up?
JANEWAY: Seven needs a new cortical node.
TUVOK: Captain, need I remind you the Borg often return to salvage damaged cubes.
JANEWAY: It's a risk I'm willing to take.
CHAKOTAY: I want to help Seven as much as anyone, but if we're not careful we'll all end up with cortical nodes.
PARIS: That's why I'm taking the Flyer, alone.
KIM: I've located the debris field.
JANEWAY: Transmit the coordinates to the Flyer. You have the bridge, Commander.
PARIS: With all due respect. The last time you took the Delta Flyer to confront the Borg, it ended up in a couple of thousand pieces.
JANEWAY: I intend to bring it back in one piece this time.
PARIS: A good pilot might be able to help you do that.
TUVOK: Particularly if he's accompanied by an experienced Tactical Officer.
CHAKOTAY: You shouldn't do this by yourself, Captain.
JANEWAY: Well then, gentlemen, I guess you're with me.

[Corridor]
ICHEB: Captain.
JANEWAY: I'll meet you in the shuttlebay.
ICHEB: Have you talked to Seven?
JANEWAY: Just a few minutes ago.
ICHEB: And you don't approve?
JANEWAY: Of what?
ICHEB: My request.
JANEWAY: Request?
ICHEB: I'm sure Seven will discuss it with you when she has the chance. I'm sorry I bothered you.
JANEWAY: Obviously, no one's told you.
ICHEB: Told me what?
JANEWAY: Seven isn't well.
ICHEB: What's wrong with her?
JANEWAY: Her cortical node is failing.
ICHEB: Her cortical node? She's going to die.
JANEWAY: Not if we find a new node. We're on our way to search a Borg debris field.
ICHEB: I have experience in Borg technology. Let me come with you.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the offer, but it's too dangerous.
ICHEB: I'm willing to take the risk.
JANEWAY: I'm not willing to let you. I'll let you know how we did as soon as we're back. Don't worry.

[Sickbay]
ICHEB: Seven?
SEVEN: Why are you here?
ICHEB: The captain told me you were ill.
SEVEN: I'm fine.
ICHEB: Then why are you in Sickbay?
SEVEN: That's not your concern. You have work to complete. Report to Astrometrics.
ICHEB: I've finished my work.
SEVEN: Then I'll assign you more.
EMH: Is there a problem?
SEVEN: I wish to be alone.
EMH: Come with me, please.

[Medical lab]
ICHEB: Why is she so angry with me?
EMH: She's not angry with you. She's just angry.
ICHEB: I don't understand.
EMH: It's a common response to serious illness. She's frustrated to be confined. Embarrassed to appear vulnerable.
ICHEB: She shouldn't be embarrassed in front of me. I'm her friend.
EMH: And her pupil. She doesn't want you or anyone else to see her when she's not at her best.
ICHEB: It's not her fault that she's sick.
EMH: Of course not. But we have to allow her to deal with this in her own way, with as much dignity as possible. Give her time. She may decide she wants company. And if she does, you're the first person I'll call.

[Delta Flyer]
TUVOK: I have isolated a section that contains the bodies of approximately thirty seven drones.
PARIS: Thirty seven doesn't sound approximate to me.
TUVOK: These drones were killed in an explosion. There are only a few left intact.
JANEWAY: Looks like there's still a breathable atmosphere inside. Any sign of any active Borg ships in the vicinity?
PARIS: Nothing on sensors.
JANEWAY: That could change in a hurry. Run continuous scans.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

[Borg vessel]
JANEWAY: Tuvok, here. Help me get this off him.
JANEWAY: No apparent damage to the cortical node.
PARIS (voiceover): Captain, you've got company. There's a ship
TUVOK: Two to beam out.
JANEWAY: Delta Flyer, respond.
TUVOK: Three humanoids have just transported aboard this vessel.
JANEWAY: Drones?
SALVAGE ALIEN: The only drones here are dead, and they belong to us. Who are you?
JANEWAY: Captain Kathryn Janeway of the starship Voyager.
SALVAGE ALIEN: This is my debris field, Captain.
JANEWAY: We weren't aware of that.
SALVAGE ALIEN: What have you taken?
JANEWAY: A cortical node. We need it to save one of my crew.
SALVAGE ALIEN: Everything here belongs to us.
JANEWAY: Put down your weapons and I'll consider not activating this laser scalpel.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Sorry about the delay. They knocked our transporters offline.
PARIS: I need you at tactical. When I bring us around, target their engine core.
JANEWAY: Aye, sir.
PARIS: Nice shot. They're breaking pursuit.

[Sickbay]
EMH: May I ask what you're doing?
SEVEN: Your filing system is inefficient. I'm implementing a new one.
EMH: You should be in bed.
NEELIX: Delivery for Seven of Nine. Tarcanian wildflowers. Cheery, don't you think? Ah. If you prefer gladiolas, I could go back to the Airponics bay.
EMH: That won't be necessary, Mister Neelix. The flowers are lovely, aren't they, Seven?
SEVEN: Thank you. I'll admire them later.
NEELIX: Actually, I thought I'd stay and keep you company.
EMH: Seven prefers not to have visitors right now.
NEELIX: Not even a visitor with a Kadis-kot board?
SEVEN: Correct.
NEELIX: But it's your favorite game.
EMH: Personally I can't blame her. You're being extremely insensitive.
NEELIX: I am?
EMH: You know perfectly very well Seven is in a weakened state. She wouldn't stand a chance against you.
NEELIX: You're right. I don't know what I was thinking. We'll play later when you're feeling up to it.
SEVEN: Green.
NEELIX: I beg your pardon?
SEVEN: I prefer the green pieces. You'll use red.
NEELIX: Doctor, do you think she's up to it?
EMH: As long as you go easy on her.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to the Doctor.
EMH: Yes, Captain?
JANEWAY (voiceover): We're back and we have the node.
EMH: I'm ready to disengage the damaged node. Transfer Seven's cortical functions to the computer.
JANEWAY: Understood. Done.
EMH: Initiating the extraction.
JANEWAY: Vital functions are stable.
EMH: Time?
JANEWAY: Twenty seconds.
EMH: Not yet, I have to realign her primary neurodes first.
JANEWAY: The computer can't maintain her cortical functions much longer.
EMH: Ready.
JANEWAY: Her neural relays are going to destabilize in ten seconds, nine.
EMH: Almost finished.
JANEWAY: Eight, seven, six, five.
EMH: Transfer Seven's cortical functions to the new node.
JANEWAY: Something's wrong.
PARIS: She's going into anaphylactic shock.
EMH: Her implants aren't adapting. They're rejecting the new node.
PARIS: It's losing synaptic cohesion.
EMH: Apply a twenty millijoule neurostatic pulse on my mark. Now.
JANEWAY: No effect.
EMH: Again.
JANEWAY: Increase the pulse. Thirty millijoules.
EMH: Computer, end simulation.

[Holodeck]
JANEWAY: Why did you stop?
EMH: It wasn't working.
JANEWAY: Run it again.
PARIS: Captain, this was our twelfth simulation. Something tells me thirteen won't be our lucky number.
EMH: The salvaged node has been inactive too long.
JANEWAY: Then we'll find one that hasn't.

[Corridor]
EMH: No matter how many debris fields we sift through, a node from a dead drone isn't going to work.
JANEWAY: Who said anything about a dead drone?
EMH: What's that supposed to mean?
JANEWAY: We've infiltrated Borg vessels before. If that's what it's going to take to save Seven, we'll do it again.
EMH: Are you suggesting ending one life to save another?
JANEWAY: I'm not giving up on her.
EMH: Neither am I. I'll do everything in my power to help her, but we both have to face the possibility that it may not be enough.

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: Red, grid thirteen three.
SEVEN: They should have finished the simulation by now.
NEELIX: I'm sure they'll let you know as soon as they do. Your move.
SEVEN: Don't you have more important duties to attend to?
NEELIX: Nothing that can't wait.
SEVEN: Despite what the Doctor told you, I feel perfectly fine.
NEELIX: Really? Because it looks to me like you're about to lose.
SEVEN: Kadis-kot.
NEELIX: I should have seen that coming. Ah well, that makes what, sixteen to three, your lead?
SEVEN: Sixteen to two.
NEELIX: Oh, my mistake.
NEELIX: Oh, er, I should really see how things are going in the mess hall. But I'll be back later for a rematch.
SEVEN: Are you ready to proceed?
JANEWAY: According to the simulations, the salvaged node isn't going to work. I'm sorry.
EMH: I'm still researching alternative treatments, and Harry and B'Elanna are going to try to repair the faulty node using components from your alcove.
SEVEN: They'll fail.
EMH: We're not giving up hope. Neither should you.
SEVEN: With your permission I'd like to return to my duties.
EMH: That's not possible. I need to monitor your condition.
SEVEN: Captain?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I have to defer to the Doctor.
EMH: If you'd like, I can ask Icheb to bring some of your work here.
ICHEB: Doctor? Computer, locate the Doctor.
COMPUTER: The EMH is offline.
ICHEB: Activate the EMH.
EMH: Forced to sedate you!
ICHEB: Doctor?
EMH: I'm sorry, Icheb. I wasn't talking to you.
ICHEB: Where's Seven?
EMH: I wish I knew. When I refused to release her she overrode my autonomy protocols. In the middle of a sentence, no less.
ICHEB: Computer, locate Seven of Nine.
COMPUTER: Seven of Nine is in Sickbay.

[Engineering - upper level]
TORRES: He's looking for you. The Doctor, I ran into him in the corridor. He's about thirty seconds away from calling a ship-wide alert.
SEVEN: Are you going to tell him where I am?
TORRES: No. I know what it's like to be stuck in Sickbay. I've escaped the Doctor myself once or twice.
SEVEN: Thank you.
TORRES: Any time.
SEVEN: Lieutenant. When you die, do you believe your spirit will go to Sto-Vo-Kor?
TORRES: You shouldn't be thinking about dying.
SEVEN: According to the Doctor's simulations, any attempt to adapt the salvaged node will fail. Sto-Vo-Kor, Lieutenant. Do you believe you'll go there?
TORRES: I guess it all depends on how honorable my death is.
SEVEN: But you do believe there's something after death?
TORRES: I hope so. What about you?
SEVEN: The Borg have no concept of an afterlife. However, when a drone is deactivated, its memories continue to reside in the Collective's consciousness. As long as the hive exists, so will a part of that drone.
TORRES: You don't seem to take much comfort in that.
SEVEN: My link to the Collective has been severed for nearly four years. If I die, everything that I have accomplished in that time, everything I achieved as an individual, will be lost. My memories, my experiences. It will be as if they, as if I never existed.
TORRES: I think you're a little more memorable than you're giving yourself credit for. You don't need the Collective to validate your existence. You've made an impact on every member of this crew. That's your legacy.
EMH: There you are. I should have known she'd be the one to harbor a fugitive.
TORRES: We difficult patients need to stick together.
EMH: I want you to return to Sickbay immediately.
SEVEN: Have you devised a new treatment?
EMH: Not yet.
SEVEN: Then it's best that I don't distract you from finding one.
EMH: Seven, if you continue to exert yourself, your condition will only deteriorate more rapidly. Is that what you want?
SEVEN: What I want is to be useful.
TORRES: I really could use her help. I promise not to let her overdo it.
EMH: You can stay, provided you wear this cortical monitor.
SEVEN: Thank you.

[Astrometrics lab]
ICHEB: Are you feeling better?
SEVEN: My condition is unchanged. I've spoken to the Captain about your desire to apply to Starfleet Academy. She's agreed to administer the entrance exam before we send the next datastream to Earth. (She hands him a PADD.)
SEVEN: It's a list of crewmen who can help you study. Lieutenant Torres is extremely well-versed in warp mechanics. Ensign Kim claims to have aced the quantum theory section.
ICHEB: What about Astrometrics?
SEVEN: You know more about Astrometrics than most Starfleet officers.
ICHEB: Still, I'll need someone to review the material with me.
SEVEN: I'll ask Lieutenant Paris to set aside some time.
ICHEB: I'd rather study with you.
SEVEN: You've become too dependent on me. You must learn to rely on others.
ICHEB: And if I don't want to?
SEVEN: What you want is irrelevant.
ICHEB: Why are you acting like this? Is it because you think you're dying?
SEVEN: I am dying. I'm sorry.
ICHEB: You may have given up, but I haven't.

[Doctor's office]
ICHEB: I know how to save her.
EMH: I'm certainly open to suggestions.
ICHEB: I've been analyzing the simulations you performed. They failed because you tried to implement a cortical node from a dead drone.
EMH: That's correct.
ICHEB: What you require is a live drone.
EMH: I've already been through that with Captain Janeway.
ICHEB: My cortical node is operational. I want you to remove it and give it to Seven.
EMH: Absolutely not!
ICHEB: Well, at least review my research.

[Sickbay]
EMH: It may as well be a suicide note.
ICHEB: I don't agree.
EMH: Well, that's comforting.
ICHEB: You took these scans of me when I left the Collective. By your own estimation I emerged from my maturation chamber before I was fully assimilated. As a result my physiology is less dependent on my implants.
EMH: They still regulate many of your vital functions.
ICHEB: What about my age? I'm younger, so it should be easier for my body to adapt to the loss.
EMH: You're obviously too young to understand the risks involved.
ICHEB: I understand the risks perfectly. If we continue to do nothing, Seven will die.
EMH: And if we proceed with your idea, you could both die.
ICHEB: According to my research, there's an eighty six point nine percent chance that Seven's implants will adapt to my node.
EMH: Eighty-six
ICHEB: Point nine.
EMH: What about you? Without a cortical node, how will you regulate your implants?
ICHEB: You should be able to compensate with genetic resequencing. This isn't suicide, Doctor. I believe it can work. All I ask is that you consider it.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: Earth's biggest ditch. That's what my father used to call it. We hiked the north rim when I was nine.
SEVEN: It's an impressive geological formation.
JANEWAY: Too dusty. I've always preferred farm country myself.
SEVEN: Bloomington, Indiana. Your home town. You've mentioned it on several occasions.
JANEWAY: So, what do you think?
SEVEN: It appears to be a pleasant environment.
JANEWAY: When we get to Earth I'll take you there.
SEVEN: It's more likely this crew will reach Earth without me.
JANEWAY: You don't know that.
SEVEN: You refuse to acknowledge the severity of my condition, just as I did at first.
JANEWAY: Are you giving up?
SEVEN: I'm merely accepting reality.
JANEWAY: If I'd accepted reality six years ago, I'd have settled on the first M class planet we came across. Instead, I'm thirty thousand light years closer to Bloomington, Indiana.
SEVEN: Minus several members of your crew.
SEVEN: Ensign Marie Kaplan, Ensign Lindsay Ballard, Crewman Timothy Lang.
JANEWAY: Is there a point to this?
SEVEN: Every person on this list died under your command. You accepted their deaths. But I don't believe you'll accept mine.
JANEWAY: That's presumptuous.
SEVEN: I'm not being egotistical. On the contrary, I'm trying to make a point.
JANEWAY: Which is?
SEVEN: All of these crew members came to Voyager with unique personalities, but I've required your constant assistance to develop my individuality.
JANEWAY: And you've come a long way.
SEVEN: But not far enough. I've disappointed you. You feel your task is incomplete. That's why my death will be difficult for you to accept.
JANEWAY: Is that what you think? That you haven't lived up to my expectations?
SEVEN: Clearly, I haven't. But I want you to know that the failure has been mine, not yours.
JANEWAY: You haven't failed, Seven. You've exceeded my expectations. You've become an individual. An extraordinary individual. If I'm having trouble accepting your condition, it's only because I don't want to lose a friend.
EMH (voiceover): Doctor to the captain. I need to see you and Seven right away.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: It would be a complicated procedure.
EMH: No doubt.
JANEWAY: But you believe it'll work.
EMH: There are significant risks involved to Seven and Icheb, but if you're asking me if it's possible I'd have to say yes.
JANEWAY: What sort of precautions
SEVEN: No matter how many precautions you take, it's not worth the risk to Icheb.
ICHEB: Seven, this could work.
SEVEN: I'm not willing to extend my life at the cost of yours.
ICHEB: You haven't reviewed all the data.
SEVEN: As long as there is any chance you won't survive, the data is irrelevant. I'd like to return to Sickbay now.
EMH: As you wish.
ICHEB: You're the captain. You could order her to do it.
JANEWAY: I have to respect her wishes.
ICHEB: Even if it kills her?
JANEWAY: I want to help her just as much as you do.
ICHEB: If that were true, you wouldn't let her die.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Is there anything I can bring from the Cargo Bay to make you feel more at home?
SEVEN: No, thank you.
EMH: Something from the mess hall? A piece of fruit?
SEVEN: Are you offering me my last meal?
EMH: I. Of course not. Is that what you thought?
SEVEN: I was attempting to lighten the mood.
EMH: Ah, yes. Well done.
ICHEB (voiceover): Icheb to the Doctor. Report to Cargo Bay two immediately.
SEVEN: He's persistent.
EMH: Not to worry. I'll make it clear to him that persistence is futile.

[Corridor]
EMH: You were summoned, too?
JANEWAY: Icheb doesn't seem to have grasped the chain of command yet.
EMH: Remind you of anyone we know?

[Cargo Bay two]
JANEWAY: Icheb?
EMH: He's disengaged his cortical node.
JANEWAY: How?
ICHEB: My alcove. I programmed it to disconnect my neural relays.
JANEWAY: Can you reconnect them?
EMH: He's locked me out of the controls.
JANEWAY: How could you do this?
ICHEB: It was the only way I could prove to you that it would work.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: What's wrong with him?
JANEWAY: Icheb decided to perform a little operation on himself.
SEVEN: You have to reconnect his node immediately.
EMH: I intend to.
ICHEB: No. If Seven can refuse treatment, so can I.
EMH: We don't have time for this.
ICHEB: Check your scans. You'll see I'm already adapting.
EMH: Some of your implants have adapted, but not all.
ICHEB: Then apply the resequencing technique I researched.
SEVEN: This debate is pointless. I won't accept the node.
ICHEB: And I won't keep it.
EMH: Someone had better use the damn thing. If it stays disconnected much longer it won't do either of you any good.
SEVEN: You're acting like a child.
ICHEB: I'm trying to save your life.
SEVEN: Only because you've grown too dependent on me.
ICHEB: You think I need to learn to rely on other people?
SEVEN: Yes.
ICHEB: What about you? You've refused to rely on a single member of this crew. You hid your condition from the rest of us, you deactivated the Doctor, and now you're rejecting my help. You're the one who needs to rely on others. Isn't that what people on this ship do? They help each other?
JANEWAY: Whenever we can.
ICHEB: If the Captain were dying, you'd risk your life to save her, wouldn't you? And when you respond to a distress call, you're risking the life of everyone on this ship to respond to the aid of strangers.
JANEWAY: He's right.
SEVEN: Captain, he's just a child.
JANEWAY: I don't think he is. Not anymore.
SEVEN: Doctor!
EMH: Don't look at me.
ICHEB: Please, just let us help you.
EMH: Let's begin.

[Cargo Bay two]
JANEWAY: Good morning.
SEVEN: How long have I been regenerating?
EMH: Six days. We needed to make sure your implants had completely adapted to the new node.
JANEWAY: The good news is, they have.
SEVEN: Icheb?

[Sickbay]
EMH: His road to recovery has been a little bumpier than yours.
SEVEN: Has he suffered any permanent damage?
EMH: I don't think so. He's been experiencing some pain, but I believe it's temporary.
SEVEN: Pain I caused him.
EMH: Pain he was willing to endure.
ICHEB: You've recovered.
SEVEN: I expect the same from you.
ICHEB: The Doctor wants to keep me here another week, but I'm sure I'll be back on my feet in half that time.
SEVEN: I suggest you get as much rest as you can. You're going to need it.
ICHEB: Why?
SEVEN: I've decided to help you prepare for the Astrometrics portion of the Academy exam. You can expect a rigorous and grueling schedule.
ICHEB: Seven?
SEVEN: Yes?
ICHEB: Your ocular implant. It's malfunctioning again.
EMH: Actually, it's functioning perfectly.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: What's the matter, Harry? You look a little pale.
KIM: I volunteered for a test flight, not a suicide mission.
PARIS: How can we put the new Delta Flyer through her paces without taking a few risks?
KIM: Another risk like that and we'll have to rebuild her all over again. There's a vessel coming up fast off our starboard beam.
PARIS: Shields.
KIM: Range fifty kilometers. Ten. It's pulling alongside.
PARIS: Wow, nice ship.
KIM: It's scanning us.
PARIS: This is Lieutenant Tom Paris. Please identify yourself.
IRINA (voiceover): Vectored exhaust ports, accelerated driver coils. Your vessel must be fast.
PARIS: Gets us where we want to go.
IRINA (voiceover): Check your scanners. You'll see a comet on the other side of the asteroid field. I wonder which of our ships could get there first?
PARIS: Sounds like a challenge.
IRINA (voiceover): Are you going to accept?
KIM: We are not going to race her.
PARIS: This is a test flight, right?
KIM: Yeah, but
PARIS: What better way to test the new ship than to see how it stands up to a little competition? We're ready over here. Shall I count to three?
PARIS: Guess not. She's a lot more maneuverable than we are.
KIM: Not that I'm endorsing this misguided exercise, but maybe we can even the odds. New impulse thrusters.
PARIS: Now that's the spirit, Harry.
KIM: We're catching up. A hundred meters, fifty.
PARIS: Bring the backup generators online and reroute power to the thrusters.
PARIS: And it's the Delta Flyer by a nose.
KIM: Something's wrong with her ship. The cabin's filling up with nyocene gas.
PARIS: Stand by for emergency transport.
KIM: Are you all right?
IRINA: I think so.
KIM: I told you this wasn't a good idea.
IRINA: Does that mean you're afraid to try again?
PARIS: Yeah, Harry, you afraid?
KIM: No, of course not. It's just that your ship is in no shape for a rematch.
IRINA: My power transformer overloaded.
KIM: I bet we could find you a spare back on Voyager. We were about to head back anyway. Right, Tom?
PARIS: Whatever you say, Ensign Eager.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: I've been looking forward to my holodeck time all week. Why can't you borrow three hours from someone else?
TORRES: Yours are the last piece to the puzzle. Tom and I have finally managed to get a weekend off together. I've been trading favors with members so that we could get the holodeck to ourselves.
EMH: A romantic getaway.
TORRES: Well, that's the idea, yes.
EMH: Well, ordinarily I wouldn't hesitate to oblige but I've been looking forward to indulging myself in a new hobby. Something human doctors have been enjoying for centuries.
EMH: I've already booked a tee time.
TORRES: Well, if your tee time is more important than our happiness. Our first chance to be alone in months.
EMH: Fine. Take my three hours.
TORRES: Thank you.
EMH: So, what program are you planning to run?
TORRES: Something new, called Gedi Prime.
EMH: I've heard of that. The vacation paradise that makes Risa look like a tourist trap.
EMH: And a championship golf course, if I'm not mistaken. Why don't I just join you?
TORRES: Somehow I don't think that would add to the mood.
EMH: Don't be so sure. You haven't seen me in a bathing suit.

[Irina's ship]
IRINA: Could you hand me the veridium injector. KIM|: Veridium injector. Er, let's see.
IRINA: The one with the long handle.
KIM: Of course.
KIM: Comfortable.
IRINA: My co-pilot thinks so, too.
KIM: Co-pilot?
IRINA: I was on my way to meet him when I ran into you.
KIM: So, tell me more about where you're from.
IRINA: It's a small trinary system about half a parsec from here.
KIM: Three suns? Must make for some long days.
IRINA: Are you always this inquisitive?
KIM: That depends on who I'm talking to.
PARIS: Your new power transformer is installed and ready to go.
IRINA: Thanks.
PARIS: Your impulse drive is a real beauty.
IRINA: I designed it myself.
PARIS: But I couldn't help noticing your warp system seems so rudimentary.
IRINA: Warp's fine if you like going fast in a straight line. But to me that's just physics, not flying.
KIM: I guess it's just a matter of taste.
IRINA: Anyway, for the kind of flying I'm here for, warp is not a factor. The race course is only two billion kilometers long.
PARIS: Race course?
KIM: What kind of race course?

[Briefing room]
PARIS: The Antarian Trans-Stellar Rally. Three segments covering two point three billion kilometers.
KIM: With obstacles ranging from dwarf star clusters to K class anomalies.
PARIS: Two man crews and most importantly, each ship is limited to sub-light speeds. It is the ultimate test of ship design and piloting skills
TUVOK: Not to mention a serious drain on Voyager's resources. You're suggesting we reassign fifteen crewmen to modify the Delta Flyer.
PARIS: The race has very specific guidelines.
CHAKOTAY: All the ships have to use enriched deuterium fuel. The Delta Flyer's not equipped for that.
KIM: Irina agreed to lend us a fuel converter.
PARIS: Captain, this race is more than just a sporting event. Until recently this region was a war zone. Four different species fought for nearly a century to control it.
KIM: Now, for the first time, they're competing peacefully to commemorate the new treaty that ended the war.
PARIS: This race embodies everything the Federation values. Peaceful coexistence, free exchange of ideas
JANEWAY: I think it's a great idea.
PARIS: You do?
TUVOK: You do?
JANEWAY: Absolutely. This competition is just the sort of break we need. It would give us the chance to make some friends, and allow the crew a little R and R. Request granted.
PARIS: Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: One thing, gentleman. Now that we're in this race, we're in it to win. After all, Starfleet's honor is at stake.
PARIS: Don't worry, it's in good hands.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: A little tip, Doc. This game was not meant to be played indoors.
EMH: Here to rub salt in the wound?
PARIS: I beg your pardon?
EMH: I planned to be putting the greens at Saint Andrews. Instead I'm putting into beakers in Sickbay, thanks to you.
PARIS: Me?
EMH: Oh, don't be coy. I've already approved your time off.
PARIS: The Captain's told you about the race already?
EMH: What race? I was referring to your romantic getaway.
PARIS: Oh, no.
EMH: Don't tell me you forgot.
PARIS: Do me a favor Doc. Keep a lock on my biosigns.
EMH: What for?
PARIS: Because in about five minutes there may be a medical emergency in Engineering.
EMH: Maybe I can get that tee time back.

[Engineering]
PARIS: Hi.
TORRES: You're early.
TORRES: You packed?
PARIS: Not yet. Actually, there might be a little problem.
TORRES: Problem?
PARIS: I have the chance to pilot the Flyer in a race. A really unique race and the captain thinks it's a great idea, and I guess I got so excited I forgot about our plans. But I don't have to do it. The captain would understand.
TORRES: It's all right.
PARIS: No, no. I should have remembered. This just seemed like such an amazing opportunity. Pilots from all over
TORRES: I said it's okay.
PARIS: Really?
TORRES: The holodeck will always be here. This race won't.
PARIS: I do not deserve you.
TORRES: You're right about that.
PARIS: So, we'll plan this vacation for another time.
TORRES: Sure.
PARIS: I'm going to make this up to you, I promise.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Late night? Can I get you anything?
TORRES: No, thanks.
NEELIX: Oh, ah, ow. oo.
TORRES: Are you okay?
NEELIX: Oh, my feet. Ow. I haven't had a chance to sit down all day.
TORRES: If you're thinking of cheering me up, don't bother.
NEELIX: Who, me? Never.
TORRES: And by the way, you can have your holodeck time back.
NEELIX: What about your weekend with Tom?
TORRES: He just canceled it.
NEELIX: Does he have any idea how much planning it took?
TORRES: No. And you're not going to tell him, either. He just entered this big race, and he's really excited and, I don't want to spoil it for him.
NEELIX: I'm sure if you tell him how important this weekend was to you, he'll reconsider.
TORRES: Probably. But he should be able to do what makes him happy.
NEELIX: What about what makes you happy?
TORRES: It's time I faced facts, Neelix. Tom and I just don't belong together.
NEELIX: Then you're not in love with him anymore?
TORRES: I didn't say that.
NEELIX: B'Elanna, if you still love each other
TORRES: Maybe that isn't enough.
NEELIX: Call me a hopeless romantic, but I still think it is.
TORRES: There's a Klingon phrase my grandmother used to use. Mok'tah. It means bad match. That's what Tom and I are. I just hate that it's taken me three years to realize it.
NEELIX: If you're really such a mok'tah, it must have been an awful three years.
TORRES: No. Tom is a great guy. We've had a lot of fun together. And that seems to be enough for him. But not for me.
NEELIX: Why aren't you saying all this to Tom?
TORRES: I plan to. After the race.
NEELIX: By which time, he'll have already disappointed you again. I may not know as much about Klingon tradition as your grandmother, but somehow, keeping Tom in the dark doesn't seem very honorable. My feet are feeling better. I should go back to work.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 54058.6. Our request to enter the Delta Flyer into the rally has been accepted. I'm meeting with the race coordinator, Ambassador O'Zaal, to work out the details.

[Ready room]
O'ZAAL: We have teams that have traveled quite a distance, Captain, but none from as far as the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: We're always willing to go that extra light year for a good cause.
O'ZAAL: Well, your entrance petition seems to be in order. The Delta Flyer meets our guidelines. Now all you have to do is win.
CHAKOTAY: Something tells me the other teams aren't going to make that too easy.
TUVOK (voiceover): Bridge to the captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Commander.
TUVOK (voiceover): There is an incoming transmission for the Ambassador.
JANEWAY: Route it here.
O'ZAAL: I asked not to be disturbed.
ASSISTANT (screen): I'm sorry, but the Aksani are threatening to withdraw unless they're allowed to host the post-race ceremony.
O'ZAAL: Did you explain that we've already promised that to the Chessu.
ASSISTANT (screen): Yes. They said that was unacceptable.
O'ZAAL: Arrange for another meeting. I'll have to find some way of appeasing them. Well, I hope the race you just entered doesn't end before it begins.
JANEWAY: It's that serious?
O'ZAAL: The peace is still very fragile. Every decision I make, no matter how trivial, is looked upon as symbolic.
JANEWAY: So, every time you make a concession to one participant
O'ZAAL: Another is offended, yes.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can help.
O'ZAAL: That would be wonderful, but how?
JANEWAY: By providing neutral ground for the pre- and post-race activities. Since we've never taken sides in your conflict, you couldn't be accused of showing favoritism.
O'ZAAL: If your racing skills are as sharp as your diplomatic instincts, the other teams won't have a chance.

[Mess hall]
IRINA: There's someone to watch out for.
PARIS: What's his story?
IRINA: His name is Assan. He was a fighter pilot. One of the most ruthless.
KIM: Where you going?
PARIS: A little personal reconnaissance. We are the hosts. Lieutenant Tom Paris. Welcome aboard.
PARIS: Could I get you something? A drink? Something to eat? A tour of the ship?
ASSAN: Were you assigned to serve me?
PARIS: Er, not exactly.
ASSAN: Are we friends?
PARIS: I guess not.
ASSAN: Then you must be one of those pilots who believes in the fellowship of combat.
PARIS: Correct me if I'm wrong but, I thought this was a friendly race, not a battle.
ASSAN: If that's what you believe, then you've already lost.
PARIS: Well, nice chatting with you.
KIM: Learn anything?
PARIS: Yeah. I should leave the hosting to Neelix.
IRINA: Joxom!
KIM: Who?
IRINA: My co-pilot.
JOXOM: Irina. Hi.
PARIS: Looks like they're good friends.
KIM: They're team-mates.
PARIS: Close personal team-mates.
KIM: Oh, it was nice while it lasted.
PARIS: Come on.

[Astrometrics lab]
TORRES: Seven, I need to run a diagnostic on the lateral sensor array.
SEVEN: As soon as I'm finished.
TORRES: With what?
SEVEN: Plotting the most efficient course for the first segment of the rally.
TORRES: Seems like the entire crew has come down with race fever.
SEVEN: Maybe you could persuade the Doctor to develop a vaccine.
TORRES: I'm surprised you're putting time into this.
SEVEN: Initially I did find the activity irrelevant. But then I realized that it's important for the crew's morale, and for my relationship with Lieutenant Paris.
TORRES: Your relationship with Lieutenant Paris.
SEVEN: I was speaking professionally. I often work with him on navigational problems. He can be an erratic individual, but he's also a very competent officer and clearly a skilled pilot.
TORRES: It's the erratic individual that takes getting used to.
SEVEN: No doubt. But I've learned that if I embrace some of his interests, support him in his personal goals, we're able to function more efficiently as crewmates.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Harry, where have you been?
TORRES: Say Q'apla!
TORRES: It means success. I just wanted to capture the moment. Not to mention that cute bewildered expression.
PARIS: What are you doing in that flight suit?
TORRES: There's been a change of plans. I'm your new co-pilot.
PARIS: Look, I don't have time for practical jokes.
TORRES: Neither do I. Ready to bring that impulse drive online?
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Okay. I was upset that you canceled our weekend. But then I realized, why should we spend this time apart when we can be together doing something you love?
PARIS: What about Harry?
TORRES: I assigned him to a level five diagnostic in Engineering.
PARIS: Oh, that's terrible.
TORRES: I'm just kidding. I told him how hard it was for us to get time together and he understood. Anyway, the way I see it, you're trading an Ensign for a Chief Engineer.
PARIS: Well, you don't have to convince me. I couldn't ask for a better co-pilot. Now just remember, we're not on vacation. The point is to win.
TORRES: And you know how much I hate to lose.
PARIS: Thrusters online. Opening shuttlebay doors.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The racers are moving into position.
JANEWAY: Ambassador.
O'ZAAL: Welcome to the first running of the Antarian Trans-Stellar Rally. This moment marks a hopeful point

[Delta Flyer]
O'ZAAL (voiceover): In our shared history. A chance to put aside old animosities and come together

[Irina's ship]
O'ZAAL (voiceover): In a spirit of peace and friendly competition.

[Assan's ship]
O'ZAAL (voiceover): Good luck to all of you. Prepare for the starting signal.

[Bridge]
O'ZAAL: Captain, the honor is yours.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, fire.

[Delta Flyer]
TORRES: We've passed two more ships. Three still ahead of us.
PARIS: How's my impulse engine?
TORRES: Hot but stable, thanks to the new fuel converter.
TORRES: That was the number eight ship.
PARIS: Assan.
TORRES: Whoever it is just grazed our shields. Port thrusters are offline.
PARIS: Compensating. That was an old trick. Back at the Academy we used to call that scraping.
TORRES: Assan just almost scraped us out of the race.
PARIS: How are we doing on time?
TORRES: Twenty seconds to the third marker. Assan's already rounding it, thanks to his little tactic.
PARIS: It's a long race. We'll catch him.

[Astrometrics lab]
NEELIX: How's our team doing?
SEVEN: I announced the Delta Flyer's progress over the comm. eleven minutes ago.
NEELIX: In a race like this, eleven minutes can be an eternity.
SEVEN: The Delta Flyer is in fourth position, having completed sixty two percent of the course. The Aksani vessel is in third position, having completed sixty eight percent of the course.
NEELIX: You don't make it sound very exciting.
SEVEN: I'm relaying the relevant information.
NEELIX: It's all in the delivery. Do you mind? Attention, all hands. Stand by for a race update. With only fifty eight million kilometers left od the first segment, the Aksani, Imhotep and Terrellian ships are still battling for the lead. Wait, the number eight ship just cut off the number three in the Darla system. Now three's changing course using the gravity from a gas giant to boost its speed. It's making up for lost ground.
JANEWAY: Sounds like quite a race.
SEVEN: Apparently, it's all in the delivery.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: So much for the Aksani. Now it's just down to Irina and Assan.
TORRES: In a few minutes they'll just be echoes in our aft scanners.
PARIS: Well, we've still got the Mobius Inversion coming up.
TORRES: The what?
PARIS: Tell me you read the course manual.
TORRES: I skimmed it. More or less.
PARIS: Oh, great.
TORRES: So, what exactly is this Mobius whatever?
PARIS: Take a look. It covers the entire last third of the course. Level six subspace distortions, gravimetric shears. Just think of it as a little wormhole with a big attitude.

[Astrometrics lab]
NEELIX: The Terrellian and Imhotep ships are still in the lead, the Delta Flyer trailing by a few seconds. Meanwhile, the two Chessu ships are continuing to advance, claiming fourth and fifth position.
TUVOK: My weekly security report.
JANEWAY: I'll read it later.
TUVOK: There are a few matters we should discuss.
CHAKOTAY: She said later, Tuvok.
NEELIX: Something's wrong. They're disappearing.
SEVEN: Radiation from the Mobius Inversion is blocking our sensors.
TUVOK: How will we track their progress?
CHAKOTAY: We can't, not until they emerge from the other side of the anomaly.
JANEWAY: Want to talk about that report now, Tuvok?
TUVOK: Later, if that's permissible.

[Delta Flyer]
TORRES: Fifty meters, forty. We can get through.
PARIS: We're too close to each other.
TORRES: I'm reversing our deflector polarity. It'll repel their shields. Why wait for an opening when you can make one?
PARIS: No, it's too risky.
TORRES: Too risky? That doesn't sound like the Tom Paris I know.
PARIS: What are you doing?
TORRES: Deploying auxiliary thrusters. We'll need the extra maneuvering power to get through the gap.
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Just steer the ship.

[Astrometrics lab]
NEELIX: It's them. It's the Delta Flyer. They're in the lead. They're pulling away!

[Delta Flyer]
TORRES: We did it.
PARIS: You should have waited.
TORRES: I saw a chance and I took it.
PARIS: I'm the pilot. That means I do the flying.
O'ZAAL (voiceover): Attention all racers. There's been an accident. Stay in order and shut down your engines.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Report.
EMH: His condition's stabilizing. I should be able to start dermal regeneration in a few hours.
IRINA: This was Assan's fault.
O'ZAAL: Why?
IRINA: He collided with me so many times my shield generator overloaded. Joxom's console exploded. He's lucky he's alive.

[Briefing room]
ASSAN: If I'm guilty of anything, it's of coming in second. A situation I'll remedy in the next leg.
O'ZAAL: You're doing a poor job of defending yourself.
TORRES: We may have had something to do with this too. We grazed both of their shields while in the anomaly.
JANEWAY: Intentionally?
PARIS: It was a tight course. Everyone was flying very aggressively.
IRINA: Your team is not responsible, Captain. My generators were already overloading when they made contact.
TUVOK: Perhaps none of you is to blame. I found this interfaced with her ship's shield generator. I ran an analysis. It's a phase inverter, designed to cause a system overload.
JANEWAY: Oh, it's hard to believe someone would go this far just to knock a competitor out of the race?
O'ZAAL: This may be more than a simple case of cheating, Captain. I think someone's trying to end the peace.
JANEWAY: Maybe I'm missing something, but we're talking about a single act of sabotage. How does that threaten your treaty?
O'ZAAL: By itself it wouldn't. But we received several threats of a more serious nature.
TUVOK: From whom?
O'ZAAL: Groups opposed to the alliance. Arms dealers, isolationists, political extremists. Up until now I wasn't sure how seriously to take them.
TUVOK: Clearly they pose a security threat.
O'ZAAL: Yes, yes. We've done everything we could to protect the races, but that may not be enough. I don't want to risk any more lives. We should cancel the race, or at least postpone i,t until we can guarantee everyone's safety.
IRINA: No. If we stop now we'll be letting these extremists win.
ASSAN: She's right.
O'ZAAL: Very well, then. If that's the consensus, we'll resume tomorrow as scheduled. Of course, Captain, if you decide to withdraw, we'd understand.
JANEWAY: The last time I checked, I believe we were winning.

[Corridor]
KIM: There you are. Congratulations on taking the lead.
PARIS: Thanks.
KIM: Of course, you're not going to win.
TORRES: Why is that?
KIM: Because we are. You're looking at your new co-pilot. I checked with one of the race officials. It's perfectly legal. And it's a chance for both of us to get back in the race.
IRINA: I appreciate the gesture, but my ship's damaged.
PARIS: You don't know our Harry. Once he sets his mind on something
TORRES: He'll not only fix your ship, he'll polish the bulkheads.
KIM: How can you turn me down?
IRINA: Apparently I can't.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Come on, you can say it.
TORRES: It's embarrassing.
PARIS: I just want to make sure we're clear on what we're doing.
TORRES: Right at the light, then readjust my sight.
PARIS: Meaning?
TORRES: Come about eighty six degrees at the red giant then recalibrate sensors to compensate for photonic interference.
PARIS: Right. Next?
TORRES: Do I really have to spend my morning reciting nursery rhymes?
PARIS: It got me through the Academy.
TORRES: You were expelled.
PARIS: Okay. Repeat after me. I am not the pilot. I will not attempt to fly this ship.
TORRES: That one doesn't even rhyme.
KIM: Anyone home?
PARIS: Well, if it isn't our competition.
TORRES: Here to spy on us?
KIM: I just stopped by to borrow a hyperspanner.
PARIS: Looks like you didn't get much sleep.
KIM: Irina and I were up all night.
PARIS: Oh, really?
KIM: Making repairs. To be honest, I can't remember the last time I had so much fun. She's funny, smart. We get along without trying. I'm going to ask her if she wants to spend some time on Voyager after the race.
PARIS: What about Joxom?
KIM: Turns out they're just team-mates. I know what you're going to say
PARIS: No, no. Actually, I was just going to congratulate you. She's not a Borg, she's not a hologram, and she's not dead. Looks like you might have finally found yourself the perfect woman.
O'ZAAL (voiceover): All teams report to your ships. The race will resume in thirty minutes.
KIM: See you on the course.

[Bridge]
NEELIX (voiceover): Attention, all hands. Stand by for another race update. After fighting off a formidable challenge from the Terrellian team, the Delta Flyer has managed to hold onto it's lead going into the third and final segment.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Approaching the pulsars.
TORRES: Straight through the gate.
PARIS: Then remodulate.
TORRES: Harry sure had that glow, didn't he?
PARIS: What glow?
TORRES: You know, that look you get when you first meet someone.
PARIS: Yeah, his cheeks were a little redder than usual.
TORRES: We're through the pulsars. Harry and Irina are right behind us.
PARIS: Ease up off the thrusters now. I want to conserve some fuel for the final leg.
TORRES: If circumstances were right they might even have a future together.
PARIS: What?
TORRES: Harry and Irina.
PARIS: They just met. It's a little early to be planning a wedding.
TORRES: No, I just meant that some people just fit together without having to work at it. And other people, no matter how much they try
PARIS: Are we talking about them or us?
TORRES: What? No, I didn't mean.
PARIS: If something's bothering you, let's talk about it.
TORRES: We should concentrate on the race.
PARIS: Maybe Harry and Irina aren't such a great team after all. They're falling behind.

[Irina's ship]
KIM: I'm reading malfunctions in the EPS relays. But we double-checked all of them last night.
IRINA: We must have missed something. At this rate, we're going to be out of the race in a couple of minutes.
KIM: I think I can reroute power through the impulse manifolds.
IRINA: No!
KIM: Why not?
IRINA: It could damage the reactor coils.
KIM: What do the reactor coils have to do with the impulse manifolds?
IRINA: These systems are different than what you're used to.
KIM: You do want to win, don't you?
IRINA: Of course I do.
KIM: It just seems like every time I make a suggestion, you find a reason to reject it.
IRINA: I'm more familiar with my ship than you are.
KIM: Now what?
IRINA: I think it's the injector ports.
KIM: No, it's an overload in my console!
KIM: That's the second time your co-pilot's console exploded. Quite a coincidence.
IRINA: I'm sorry, Harry. I really am.
KIM: You sabotaged your own ship. Twice. Why are you trying so hard to get out of this race?
KIM: What the hell is going on? Sit down and hold still! All right, if you won't talk to me, maybe you'll talk to Antarian Security. You disabled the comm. system. We'll just wait. Someone'll come along eventually.

[Delta Flyer]
TORRES: We're past the last marker. Time to deploy the thrusters?
PARIS: Whatever you say.
TORRES: What happened to I'm the pilot?
PARIS: That really bothered you, didn't it? It's why you think we don't fit together as well as Harry and Irina?
TORRES: Could we talk about this later? Assan is gaining on us.
PARIS: Well then, I guess you'd better deploy the thrusters.
TORRES: Thrusters deployed. This isn't about the race anymore, is it?
PARIS: You tell me.

[Irina's ship]
IRINA: If we're going to just sit here, we might as well see who's winning.
KIM: You're not exactly in a position to be making requests.
IRINA: Admit it, Harry. You're curious too.
KIM: The Delta Flyer is still in the lead.
IRINA: Good for them.

[Delta Flyer]
TORRES: I thought if we could do this one thing together, something you cared about, that it might help our relationship.
PARIS: I didn't know it needed help.
TORRES: That's part of the problem.
PARIS: What's the rest?
TORRES: You know the rest.
PARIS: So we scrape shields occasionally. It keeps things interesting.
TORRES: Maybe interesting isn't enough for me. What are you doing?

[Irina's ship]
KIM: They're stopping. They're dead in the water.
KIM: Ah, ah, ah.
IRINA: How far from the finish line?
KIM: Less than a million kilometers.

[Delta Flyer]
TORRES: That was Assan. Why are we just sitting here?
PARIS: If we've got a problem, we're going to resolve it right here, right now.

[Irina's ship]
KIM: You done everything possible to take yourself out of the race, and now you seem worried that the Delta Flyer won't reach the finish line. I'm counting more than a dozen ships there. Spectators, officials.
IRINA: All congregated in the name of peace. Touching, isn't it?
KIM: You've planned some sort of attack. There are hundreds of innocent people there. How can you do that?
IRINA: Not everyone is as comfortable mixing with other species as you are, Harry. Some of us believe it was better when we were separate.

[Delta Flyer]
TORRES: Hey, I never asked you to give up this race, or anything else that you care about. I never asked you to stop being yourself.
PARIS: The only self that I want to be is the guy you're in love with.
TORRES: Wow. I didn't know you felt that way.
PARIS: How can you say that?
TORRES: Well, you always seem to have other priorities.
PARIS: I'm showing you my priorities right now.

[Irina's ship]
KIM: The Delta Flyer wouldn't even be in this race if you hadn't told us about it. You gave us the fuel converter so we could qualify. The fuel converter. That's why you're so concerned about Tom and B'Elanna's crossing the finish line. What'd you do to it? Rig it to explode?

[Delta Flyer]
TORRES: How come you never talked to me about this before?
PARIS: Well, you've got that tough Klingon exterior. And er, I didn't think you liked the mushy stuff.
TORRES: Do I look that tough right now?
PARIS: Does that mean you're in the mood for some mushy stuff?
TORRES: Maybe.
PARIS: Exactly what kind of mush are we talking about?
TORRES: You tell me.
PARIS: Well, there's, um, kissy stuff.
TORRES: That was nice.
PARIS: And there's the you're the most important person in the world to me.
TORRES: I like that one, too.
PARIS: And there's the happily ever after.
TORRES: How does that one work?
PARIS: Well, traditionally it requires a proposal.
TORRES: We're being scanned by some kind of modulating pulse. It's from Irina's ship.
PARIS: They must be wondering why we stopped.
TORRES: There's something odd about the amplitude.
PARIS: Wait a minute. Dit dit dah. That's Morse code. Harry and I use it in the Captain Proton holoprogram.
TORRES: What's it saying?
PARIS: Fuel converter rigged. Eject. What does he mean by rigged?
TORRES: The converter's leaking veridium isotopes.
PARIS: Why didn't the computer warn us?
TORRES: The online sensors have been tampered with.
PARIS: Can you contain the leak?
TORRES: Too late. The veridium is already reacting with the warp plasma.
PARIS: That'll cause a warp core breach.
TORRES: In less than a minute.
PARIS: Then do what Harry said. Eject the converter.
TORRES: It's too late. I have to eject the core.
PARIS: Here? We'll never survive the blast. Neither will anyone else within a million kilometers.

[Irina's ship]
IRINA: They're moving again.
KIM: Away from the finish line.

[Delta Flyer]
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in thirty seconds.
TORRES: Where are we going?
PARIS: A J Class nebula filled with ionized gas. Should contain the explosion.
TORRES: I can't get the ejection subroutines online.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in twenty seconds.
PARIS: So, what's your answer?
TORRES: My answer?
PARIS: Will you marry me?
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in fifteen seconds.
TORRES: You're proposing now?
PARIS: It's as good a time as any.
TORRES: Subroutines back online.
COMPUTER: Warp core breach in ten seconds, nine, eight.
TORRES: Clear!
COMPUTER: Four.
TORRES: Go!
COMPUTER: Three.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Damn.
O'ZAAL: I'm sorry your team didn't win, Captain.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the bridge. Report.
TUVOK: That was a shock wave from an antimatter explosion approximately one point two million kilometers from here.
JANEWAY: Excuse me.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: I guess we lost.
PARIS: That depends.
TORRES: On what?
PARIS: On how you answer my question.
TORRES: I thought you only asked it because we were about to explode.
PARIS: Well, we're still alive and I'm still asking.
TORRES: How come you never asked me before?
PARIS: How come you're still avoiding the question?
TORRES: I'm thinking.
PARIS: Think faster.
TORRES: Why? You going to withdraw the question?
PARIS: No, but I might start to beg. It could get embarrassing.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. The Antarians have invited us to participate in the post-race festivities, which has allowed me to give two of my senior officers time off for a well-deserved romantic getaway. The Delta Flyer still needs a new warp core, but I don't think they're in a hurry to get anywhere.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: To the winners. B'Elanna Paris. That has a nice ring to it.
TORRES: Thanks, but I already have a ring. Anyway, I kind of like the sound of Tom Torres.
PARIS: I hope you're kidding.
TORRES: Hey, it is the twenty fourth century.

[Teero's room]
TEERO: The Prophets sing, this is a holy time. B'tanay, the time of awakening. Return to that dark place from which all life springs. A primal energy charges your blood, an energy of rebirth. The mind awakens and focuses on its task. Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay. Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay.

[Corridor]
TORRES: Fresh flowers? An afternoon on the holodeck? It almost feels like we're dating again.
PARIS: The secret to a lasting marriage. Keep the romance alive.
TORRES: I'm not complaining.

[Holodeck - cinema]
TORRES: Lecture hall?
PARIS: Guess again.
TORRES: Opera house? Not another one of the Doctor's performances.
PARIS: This is a movie house. This is the Old Palace Theater in Chicago, built in 1932. Look at the detail on that crown molding.
TORRES: It doesn't look very functional.
PARIS: This place isn't about function, it's about fantasy.
PARIS: Chewing gum.
TORRES: There is such a thing as too much authenticity.
PARIS: Attention to detail. That's what makes it fun.
TORRES: Protective lenses?
PARIS: These will make the images on the screen appear three-dimensional.
TORRES: Let me get this straight. You've gone to all this trouble to program a three-dimensional environment that projects a two-dimensional image, and now you're asking me to wear these to make it look three-dimensional again?
PARIS: Great, isn't it?
TORRES: Crick in your neck?
PARIS: People didn't go to the movies just for the movies, you know.
TORRES: Really? What did they go for?
PARIS: I'll try to demonstrate.
TORRES: I can see why this was so popular.
WOMAN: Shush!
TORRES: Maybe this would be more fun if we were alone.
PARIS: Computer, delete audience.
PARIS: Who's that in the front row? Must be a glitch.
TORRES: No, That's Tabor.
FILM: This is an emergency! The Gill Man has escaped! Please, clear the oceanarium! Get out, everybody!
PARIS: You okay?

[Sickbay]
EMH: He appears to be in a coma, but I'm reading unusual synaptic activity.
CHAKOTAY: What happened to him?
EMH: I don't know. I'd like to know what he's been doing the last few weeks. Where he's worked, away missions.
CHAKOTAY: I'll access his duty roster.

[Holodeck - cinema]
TUVOK: Was Ensign Tabor wearing these when he was found?
TORRES: No, they were on the floor next to him.
PARIS: I don't think they cause comas.
TUVOK: Lights strobing at certain frequencies have been known to induce seizures. We should analyze the optical properties of this movie. When was the last time you spoke with Mister Tabor?
PARIS: About ten, fifteen minutes before B'Elanna and I got here. He called to say the program was up and running.
TORRES: Funny.
TUVOK: Lieutenant?
TORRES: When we were in the Maquis together, we used to joke that Tabor must have had his own personal forcefield. He went through a dozen firefights without even getting his clothes dirty.
TUVOK: He's still alive. Perhaps his forcefield is holding.
KIM: Commander, I've reviewed the sensor logs for the four hours Tabor was in here. All systems were operating normally, safeties were online.
TUVOK: Run a level five diagnostic on the logs.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Tuvok. Report to Sickbay.
TUVOK: On my way.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've found several microfractures in his cranium. They're minor, but the pattern suggests he suffered a trauma of some sort. There's also evidence of subdermal contusions along his right shoulder.
CHAKOTAY: This man was attacked.
JANEWAY: It's possible that whoever did this is still on board. Go to Yellow alert. Tuvok, I'm putting you in charge of the investigation.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.

[Outside Tabor's quarters]
TUVOK: Security override Tuvok pi alpha.

[Tabor's quarters]
JOR: Commander.
TUVOK: Crewman Jor. If I'm not mistaken, your quarters are on deck four.
JOR: I heard what happened to Tabor. I was looking for a book to bring to him.
TUVOK: I'm afraid he's in no condition to read.
JOR: I was going to read to him. I've heard it helps sometimes to hear a familiar voice.
TUVOK: You and Tabor were friends. Do you have any idea why someone would want to hurt him?
JOR: I can't imagine.
TUVOK: Could you tell me where you were from oh seven hundred to eleven hundred hours this morning?
JOR: On duty. In Engineering. You can check with Lieutenant Torres if you like.
TUVOK: That won't be necessary. Thank you, crewman.

[Ready room]
CHAKOTAY: Harry's found evidence that someone tampered with the holodeck sensor logs. Several files have been deleted.
JANEWAY: Any signs of an outside intruder?
CHAKOTAY: No, nothing.
TUVOK: I believe that a member of this crew is responsible.
JANEWAY: Tabor was well-liked. What's the motive?
TUVOK: I have one suspect. Crewman Jor.
CHAKOTAY: I find that hard to believe. I've known her for a long time. She and Tabor were friends.
TUVOK: Close friends. She had access to his quarters.
CHAKOTAY: A close relationship is hardly a crime.
TUVOK: It is my experience that emotional involvements often lead to unpredictable behavior.
CHAKOTAY: That's an opinion, not evidence.
TUVOK: There may be other suspects. I intend to question all crew members who had recent contact with Tabor.
CHAKOTAY: I'll check the internal sensors. See what else I can find.
JANEWAY: Commander. You seem awfully convinced that one of the crew was behind this. Now, you can't tell me that's the only logical conclusion, because I can think of a number of others.
TUVOK: I realize that my assumptions seem premature, but I have a strong instinct about this. You might call it a hunch.
JANEWAY: I didn't think that Vulcans had hunches.
TUVOK: I can't explain it, Captain, but I can't ignore it either. Someone on board is responsible and I intend to find out who it is.

[Engineering]
YOSA: Pressure's fluctuating in one one four.
JOR: You'd better check the seals.

[Jeffries tube]
YOSA: Hello?
YOSA: Computer, seal hatch six one three beta.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
YOSA: Crewman Yosa to Security.

[Sickbay]
EMH: His neocortical readings are identical to Tabor's, and he has the same microfractures along his right temple.
TUVOK: Who discovered him?
JANEWAY: Crewman Jor.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Crewman Jor. Jor, respond.
JANEWAY: Computer, locate Crewman Jor.
COMPUTER: Crewman Jor is in the mess hall.

[Mess hall]
TUVOK: Crewman Jor.

[Sickbay]
EMH: If this keeps up, I may have to open a special coma ward.
CHAKOTAY: Take a look at their names. Tell me if anything strikes you.
JANEWAY: Former Maquis.
CHAKOTAY: It's either a coincidence, or they're being singled out.
JANEWAY: There hasn't been any hostility between the Maquis and the rest of the crew for years.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe someone on your crew couldn't put the past behind them.
JANEWAY: My crew?
CHAKOTAY: Our crew.
JANEWAY: Are you any closer to a diagnosis, Doctor?

[Doctor's office]
EMH: They all have the same disruptions in their synaptic pathways. The same cranial fractures, contusions. But I still don't know the cause, or how to reverse it.
JANEWAY: Your investigation?
TUVOK: Nothing conclusive.
JANEWAY: Five crewmen in comas and we don't have a single clue?
TUVOK: The assailant must have access to security protocols. There is no other way he could have escaped detection.
EMH: You'd better find a way to protect the rest of the Maquis. I'm running out of beds.

[Mess hall]
CHELL: What is it you expect us to do?
CHAKOTAY: Stay alert. Report anything suspicious to Commander Tuvok.
CHELL: I'd rather report to you, if it's all the same.
CREWMAN: He's right. I've never trusted the Vulcan. He's betrayed us before.
TORRES: He was doing his job.
CREWMAN: He didn't care about the Maquis back then. Why should he now?
TORRES: We're not Maquis anymore.
CREWMAN: Tell that to our friends in Sickbay.
TORRES: Oh, come on. We put our differences aside seven years ago. It's ancient history.
CHELL: Maybe history is repeating itself.
CHAKOTAY: Look, the truth is, we don't know what we're up against. But the last thing we need right now is an outbreak of paranoia. Now until we get to the bottom of this, I want you all to carry hand phasers. Nobody goes anywhere alone.

[Holodeck]
PARIS: We thought maybe the intruder left behind some kind of negative image.
KIM: Displaced photons. Tom figured that if we dampen the photonic ambience and enhance the polarity
TUVOK: We can applaud Mister Paris' ingenuity later. What have you found?
TUVOK: Ensign Tabor.
KIM: Now take a look at this.
TUVOK: Impressive.
KIM: It doesn't tell us who the attacker was, but we do know someone else was here.
TUVOK: Can you extrapolate the assailant's height and weight?
KIM: I'd say between a hundred seventy and a hundred ninety centimeters. Maybe seventy five kilograms.
PARIS: That describes about half the members of the crew.
KIM: At least we can rule out Naomi Wildman.
TUVOK: Is it possible to increase the resolution?
KIM: We're already working on it.
TUVOK: Keep me informed.
PARIS: Commander?

[Corridor]
TORRES: Stop it. You're making me nervous.
CHELL: It doesn't make sense. This ship, with all its sensors. How could five people be attacked without leaving a trace?
TORRES: Good question.
CHELL: Maybe it's a conspiracy. Ever since Voyager began sending datastreams back home, Starfleet has known that almost a quarter of the crew is Maquis.
TORRES: So?
CHELL: Maybe they think we're still dangerous. Maybe they ordered the Captain to neutralize the threat.
TORRES: Yes, that's it. She's putting us all into stasis. The comas are just a cover story.
CHELL: It would be easier than putting us all in the brig.

[Turbolift]
CHELL: It could be her.
TORRES: Oh, please.

[Tuvok's office]
TUVOK: That'll be all, Crewman. Please send in Mister Kim.
KIM: I'm still trying to enhance the photon displacement.
TUVOK: I appreciate your efforts, Mister Kim, but I called you here for another reason. In the last datastream from Earth, you received a letter from someone named Dennis Kim.
KIM: My cousin.
TUVOK: In that letter, he spoke of your mutual friend, Maxwell Saroyan.
KIM: You read my mail?
TUVOK: Yes.
KIM: Isn't that a violation of privacy protocols?
TUVOK: As the Chief of Security, I have the authority to suspend those protocols under special circumstances.
KIM: And what is so special about a letter from my cousin?
TUVOK: The attacks began shortly after we received the last datastream. Your letter was part of that transmission.
KIM: A lot of people got letters.
TUVOK: Twenty eight, to be exact, but only six of them matched the physical parameters of the photon displacement.
KIM: Am I a suspect?
TUVOK: According to the letter, your friend, Mister Saroyan, was killed by the Maquis a number of years ago.
KIM: You got me, Tuvok. I confess. I was so distraught after hearing Max's name that I fired my Captain Proton Comatizer at every Maquis I could find.
TUVOK: Your sarcasm could be viewed as subterfuge.
KIM: Tuvok, it's me, Harry. Do you really think I'd be capable of this?
TUVOK: My personal views are irrelevant.
KIM: I learned about Max's death a long time ago. I was upset, but I don't blame the Maquis, and I certainly don't blame anyone on this ship. If that'll be all?
KIM: Is everything all right?
TUVOK: This investigation is perplexing. It defies logic.
KIM: I'll keep you posted on the holodeck analysis.
EMH (voiceover): Doctor to Commander Tuvok. Report to Sickbay immediately.
TUVOK: On my way.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I thought you might like to have a few words with Mister Tabor.
TUVOK: How did you revive him?
EMH: I didn't. His synaptic pathways stabilized on their own.
TUVOK: How do you feel?
TABOR: Fine, sir. Hungry.
TUVOK: What do you remember?
TABOR: Not much. I was working in the holodeck, and then I was here.
TUVOK: Was anyone in the holodeck with you?
TABOR: No, sir.
TUVOK: Do you know why anyone would want to hurt you?
TABOR: No. What's going on?
TUVOK: Thank you, Ensign.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Crewman, I remember ordering everyone to work in pairs. Where's your partner?
CHELL: Er, she's, er, er.
CHAKOTAY: Who's your partner?
CHELL: Lieutenant Torres. I told her we shouldn't split up, sir, but she said she could handle herself. You know how stubborn she can be.
CHAKOTAY: I have a vague idea. Do you know where she went?
CHELL: Cargo Bay two, sir.

[Cargo Bay two]
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna? Computer, locate Lieutenant Torres.
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Torres is in Cargo Bay two.
CHAKOTAY: Help me get her to Sickbay.
TUVOK: This is a holy time.
CHAKOTAY: What?
CHAKOTAY: Security to Cargo Bay two.
TUVOK: Let the mind awaken and focus on the task. My mind to your mind, my thoughts to your thoughts.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. Chakotay and B'Elanna are the latest victims of our mysterious assailant. I've decided to put the ship on a Level ten security alert. Non-essential personnel are confined to quarters, and security teams have been posted on all decks.

[Cargo Bay two]
TUVOK: Ensign, run a metallurgical analysis.
JANEWAY: Two more victims regained consciousness. Crewmen Yosa and Jor. Their bio-readings returned to normal, as if they suffered nothing worse than a good night's sleep. It doesn't make any sense.
TUVOK: It is, however, a pattern, and a pattern implies purpose. We simply have to uncover it.
JANEWAY: Any clues here?
TUVOK: Not yet.
JANEWAY: I'm beginning to think our perpetrator is a ghost.
TUVOK: Perhaps we should conduct a séance.
JANEWAY: It couldn't hurt.
TUVOK: I have worked meticulously, yet he has outwitted me each time.
JANEWAY: How can you be sure it's a he?
TUVOK: I can't, but I am.
JANEWAY: Another hunch?
TUVOK: I can almost sense his presence. It's as though he's challenging me to find him.
JANEWAY: I'd say you're taking this a little too personally. Maybe you should take a break.
TUVOK: No.
JANEWAY: You haven't slept in three days. Get some rest, Meditate. Clear your mind.
TUVOK: My mind is perfectly clear.
JANEWAY: I don't want to make this an order, Tuvok. I'll go over your scans. Fresh pair of eyes might help.
TUVOK: Captain.

[Tuvok's quarters]
TEERO: Resist your doubts.

[Corridor]
TEERO (voiceover): Don't question your mission.

[Holodeck - cinema]
JANEWAY: Filter out the polarized photons. Anyone you know? Tuvok.
TUVOK: Computer, isolate the precise time index of this image.
COMPUTER: Stardate 54090.4.
TUVOK: Where was Commander Tuvok at that time?
COMPUTER: Access to that information has been restricted.
TUVOK: By whom?
COMPUTER: Access to that information has been restricted.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, what's going on?
TUVOK: Computer, override those security restrictions. Authorisation Tuvok pi alpha.
COMPUTER: Restrictions overridden.
TUVOK: Where was Commander Tuvok at the specified time?
COMPUTER: Commander Tuvok was in holodeck two.
TUVOK: Computer, based on the most recent data, can you give me a better estimation of the intruder's height?
COMPUTER: One hundred eighty two centimeters.
TUVOK: And what is the height of Lieutenant Commander Tuvok?
COMPUTER: One hundred eighty two centimeters.
TUVOK: Captain, I believe I
TEERO: Ignore your doubts.
TUVOK: No.
JANEWAY: Commander, lower your weapon.
TEERO: Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay.
TUVOK: Who are you?
TUVOK: Captain, it would appear that I am the guilty party.
JANEWAY: How is that possible?
TUVOK: I don't know. But for the safety of the crew you must confine me to the brig.

[Brig]
EMH: He wants to speak with you, but I advise you to remain outside the forcefield.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, can you hear me?
TUVOK: I hear you. But there is another voice trying to control me.
JANEWAY: Another voice? Whose? This is a holy time. What did you mean by that?
TUVOK: A primal energy charges the blood, an energy of rebirth.
JANEWAY: That's what the voice is telling you?
TUVOK: It's a Bajoran incantation. The voice is Bajoran.
EMH: We need to get you to Sickbay so I can run
TUVOK: No! No more scans. Leave me alone.
TEERO: Don't question your mission.
TUVOK: Get away from me.
JANEWAY: What do you see, Tuvok?
TUVOK: The Bajoran.
JANEWAY: Ignore him. Focus on my voice. Tell me what's happening.
TUVOK: I believe I've, I've been attacking certain members of the crew. The Maquis. Then investigating the crimes with no memory of what I'd done.
EMH: Attacking them how?
TUVOK: Mind melds.
JANEWAY: Why?
TUVOK: I don't know. He is responsible. What did you do to me?
JANEWAY: Commander. Commander. Is he a member of the crew? Then who is he?
TUVOK: I don't know.
JANEWAY: The day the first attack occurred, did anything unusual happen to you?
TUVOK: I was tending to my duties. I received a letter from my son.
JANEWAY: A letter? This all started right after we received the last datastream.
TUVOK: I reviewed every letter except my own.
JANEWAY: Stay with him, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: How long?
PARIS: Twenty nine hours. She woke up just before you did.
JANEWAY: They've all recovered. We don't know why. It's Tuvok.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok?
JANEWAY: He's in the brig. Apparently, he's being manipulated by some form of mind control. Can he leave, Mister Paris?
PARIS: I don't see why not, but he should wear one of these.
JANEWAY: There's something I want to show you.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEK (screen): Exo-linguistics always seemed a little too theoretical to me. I've decided to study musical composition instead. I would have sent you my latest polytonal construct, but they wouldn't give me enough room in this datastream. Maybe next time, I can.
CHAKOTAY: A letter from his son.
JANEWAY: We found another signal embedded in the message. A letter within a letter.
SEK (screen): Hello, Father. We received your last transmission.
TEERO (screen): This is a holy time. B'tanay, the time of awakening. Return to that dark place from which all life springs.
SEVEN: The signal is calibrated to correspond with Vulcan synaptic frequencies. Tuvok wouldn't have been consciously aware of it.
CHAKOTAY: Teero. Teero Anaydis. He was a Bajoran Vedek. He worked with the Maquis.
JANEWAY: Doing what?
CHAKOTAY: Counter-intelligence. He was thrown out for experimenting with mind control. He thought it was a good way to recruit agents.
JANEWAY: Well, apparently he was successful at recruiting our Tactical Officer. These incantations and symbols, they must have triggered something in Tuvok. Preconditioned behavior, instructions.
CHAKOTAY: I should've known you'd show up again.
JANEWAY: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Teero was a fanatic. He'd go to any extreme for the Maquis. He called the rest of us traitors for rejecting his ideas. Swore he'd fight the war on his own if he had to.
SEVEN: Why instruct Tuvok to mind meld with Voyager's Maquis thirty five thousand light years from Earth?
JANEWAY: I'd like Tuvok to take a look at this message. Maybe it'll jog his memory. Try to decode those symbols.

[Brig]
TUVOK: It's him.
JANEWAY: His name is Teero Anaydis.
TUVOK: Teero.
JANEWAY: He worked for Maquis Intelligence.
TUVOK: Yes, I remember meeting him. I was undercover, doing reconnaissance on a colony near the Badlands. He was a Vedek at the Bajoran temple there.
JANEWAY: Go on.
TUVOK: We spoke briefly. He was interested in Vulcan culture. That's all I remember.
JANEWAY: Maybe that's all he wanted you to remember. He was developing some kind of mind control technique. We think he used it on you seven years ago.
JANEWAY: What is it?
TUVOK: I, I was restrained. Very frightened.
JANEWAY: What did he do to you?
TUVOK: I can't remember.
JANEWAY: Try.
TUVOK: I can't!
JANEWAY: Tuvok, if we're going to help you, we need to find out. The last time you meditated, it helped the memories resurface, didn't it? You've helped me meditate. I think I've learned a thing or two about the process. Let me try to guide you.
JANEWAY: Where are you?
TUVOK: In a laboratory. Underground.

[Memory - Teero's lab]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Is Teero there?
TUVOK (voiceover): There is someone. It's him.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Describe what's happening.
TEERO: Lieutenant.

[Brig]
JANEWAY: Tuvok? Tuvok?

[Memory - Teero's lab]
TEERO: It is Lieutenant, isn't it? I'm sure your Maquis comrades would be interested to know your Starfleet rank. Don't worry, I don't plan to expose you.
TUVOK: What do you want?
TEERO: You. You're the perfect subject.
TUVOK: For what?
TEERO: I'm a student of the mind. Yours is remarkable. Disciplined, orderly. On the surface, that is. Beneath
TEERO: Boiling emotions, repressed violence. In a sense, you're two different men. One I could never hope to manipulate, but the other
TUVOK: I have been trained to resist mind control.
TEERO: That's the rational, logical part of you at work, but I want to reach your inner fire. Your spirit.
TUVOK: Why? Wait. Please, please, don't.
TEERO: Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay.

[Brig]
TUVOK: Stay away from me!
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
TEERO: Complete your mission.
TUVOK: No!
TEERO: This is a holy time.
JANEWAY: Commander.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Chakotay.

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK (voiceover): Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay.
CHAKOTAY: Understood.

[Brig]
JANEWAY: Janeway to Chakotay. Commander. Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay. What did that mean, Tuvok? Tell me.
TUVOK: This is a holy time. A time of awakening.
JANEWAY: This Teero has awakened you to do what? If you can remember, you can fight him. You can resist. What does he want?
TUVOK: To give us instructions.
JANEWAY: What kind of instructions?
TEERO: Focus on your task.
TUVOK: No.

[Sickbay]
EMH: It's Chakotay.
PARIS: What is it?
EMH: I'm not sure. Sickbay to Commander Chakotay. Computer, locate Chakotay.
COMPUTER: Commander Chakotay is in sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, deactivate the EMH.
PARIS: Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay.
TORRES: I understand.

[Turbolift]
CHAKOTAY: Deck one.

[Brig]
JANEWAY: Why were you using mind melds? What did Teero want you to do?
TUVOK: To awaken the others.
TEERO: Resist your doubts.
TUVOK: No!
JANEWAY: Focus on me.
TEERO: Complete your mission. Pagh'tem'far, b'tanay.
TUVOK: You don't control me!

[Bridge]
KIM: Good to see you, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: It's good to be back.

[Brig]
JANEWAY: Janeway to the bridge. Report.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: What the hell are you doing?
CHAKOTAY: I think it's obvious. I'm taking control of your ship. Within the hour all Starfleet personnel will be locked in their quarters. Step back in the Brig, Kathryn.
JANEWAY: What's Teero done to you?
CHAKOTAY: He simply helped us remember who we are. We're Maquis. We've always been Maquis.
JANEWAY: The rebellion ended three years ago. You know that.
CHAKOTAY: In the Alpha Quadrant, maybe. Not on this ship.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
TORRES (voiceover): Deck eleven is secure.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.

[Brig]
JANEWAY: We're thirty five light years from Earth, Chakotay. No one out here even knows about the Maquis. It doesn't make sense. There's nothing you can accomplish.
CHAKOTAY: As long as we exist, so does the rebellion.
JANEWAY: That's Teero talking. He was unstable, you said so yourself.
CHAKOTAY: We have no intention of hurting any of you.
TUVOK: Your orders, Captain?
CHAKOTAY: Take your station.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 54101. Voyager is now under my command. We're en route to an M class planet where we'll relocate the Starfleet crew.

[Bridge]
JOR: We're in range.
TORRES: On screen. Looks like a nice place for a Federation colony. Take us into orbit.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Tuvok, would you mind joining me in the ready room?

[Ready room]
TUVOK: You wished to see me, Captain?
CHAKOTAY: You can drop the formalities. This is a Maquis ship now. Vulcan brandy. I thought we'd have a drink to celebrate.
TUVOK: A fitting gesture.
CHAKOTAY: To awakenings.
TUVOK: Awakenings.
CHAKOTAY: There are still twenty three of our former comrades who aren't with us yet. I was hoping you'd be able to help persuade them.
TUVOK: I'm prepared to mind meld with the remaining Maquis to convey Teero's instructions.
CHAKOTAY: It'll be nice to have my old crew back. You've been a big help to us, Tuvok, but I can't forget what happened seven years ago. You have a history of betraying the Maquis.
TUVOK: It won't happen again.
CHAKOTAY: We have a small crew. I have to be able to trust everyone, especially my tactical officer.
CHAKOTAY: Bring her in.
CHAKOTAY: Consider this a test of your loyalty. It's set to kill.
JANEWAY: You said you wouldn't hurt anyone.
JANEWAY: You're in control of your actions. Not Chakotay, not Teero.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok?
JANEWAY: Don't do this.
TUVOK: This phaser is defective.
CHAKOTAY: Take her back to the brig.
CHAKOTAY: You passed.
CHAKOTAY: Now, we've got some tactical issues to review. I want to re-route all weapons control to my console.
TUVOK: My mind to your mind. My thoughts to your thoughts.

[Bridge]
TORRES: Kim and Paris engineered a little breakout on deck six. We've contained them all behind a forcefield.
JOR: We should begin the evacuation.
TORRES: Start beaming them down. Begin on deck two, section zero one.
CHAKOTAY: Belay that order. Tuvok informed me that this planet has an unstable atmosphere. Go to Astrometrics and scan for an alternative.
TORRES: What are you talking about? There's nothing wrong with the atmosphere.
CHAKOTAY: We don't have time to debate this.
TORRES: I can scan from here. Chakotay, what's going on?
TUVOK: Stand down.

[Brig]
TUVOK: Your weapon.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you might like your ship back.
JANEWAY: No more rebellion?
CHAKOTAY: It took another mind meld with Tuvok, but I'm fine.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, you're all right.
TUVOK: I am in control again, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Whatever you said to him, it worked.
JANEWAY: It's good to have you back, Commander.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: All ready for Attack of the Lobster People?
TUVOK: I am not familiar with that species.
CHAKOTAY: You will be, soon enough.
TUVOK: I haven't completed my security rounds.
CHAKOTAY: You have now.

[Holodeck - cinema]
NEELIX: Buttered or unbuttered?
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, Neelix.
JANEWAY: I saved you a seat.
TUVOK: How long is this entertainment?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure. Tom said something about a double feature. I've been meaning to ask you. How did you know that phaser wasn't charged?
TUVOK: Chakotay doubted my loyalty. He wouldn't have given me an active weapon.
JANEWAY: Not exactly ironclad logic.
TUVOK: Call it a hunch.
JANEWAY: Remind me to pay more attention to your hunches.
TORRES: Shush!

[Level Red]
ALLOCATOR: Trauma team four to Level Red. Trauma team four to Level Red. Code Four nursing unit, report to Level Red
ORDERLY: No, he does have a sensor. It's not working.
ALLOCATOR: Negative for dysplasia, viremia, necrobiosis. Please extend your arms. Species, Dralian. Identity, Gar. TC fifteen. You may proceed.
GAR: Chellick. Lucky I caught you.
CHELLICK: Mister Gar. I wish I had time to talk.
GAR: Well, all you have to do is listen. I have a new supply of cytogenics.
CHELLICK: Your last supply was useless. Expired lots, diluted samples.
GAR: Oh, I have something special this time.
CHELLICK: The latest in substandard technology, no doubt.
GAR: Oh, this item is far from substandard. And as a gesture of goodwill, I'm offering it to you first.
CHELLICK: We don't need another neural monitor.
GAR: This is much more sophisticated than that.
CHELLICK: I'm sure it has some ingenious use but I'm not interested.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency? Where have you taken me?
GAR: It's a holographic construct programmed with over five million medical protocols.
EMH: I demand to be returned to Voyager at once.
CHELLICK: What's Voyager?
EMH: The Federation Starship to which I'm assigned. This man is a kidnapper.
GAR: I would never offer you stolen property. I traded warp-grade dilithium for this program.
CHELLICK: What's your price?
EMH: This negotiation is pointless. I'm not about to perform medical services for a pair of common thieves.
CHELLICK: It doesn't seem to be in working order.
ALLOCATOR: Trauma victims are now arriving at Emergency Intake Seven.
CHELLICK: What caused their injuries?
ALLOCATOR: A generator explosion at the Gammadan mining facility.
GAR: You'd better start cooperating, or I will dismantle your program and sell it off one subroutine at a time.
EMH: When Captain Janeway discovers what you've done
ORDERLY: Come on, let's go. Clear a path. Here we go. Tuck him in there.
ORDERLY 2: We haven't got any coagulants.
VOJE: Somebody check the reserves.
ORDERLY: There are no reserves.
VOJE: This one's got grade four pulmonary burns.
ALLOCATOR: Patient's TC is four. Transfer to level green.
VOJE: Green isn't equipped for this.
CHELLICK: His TC's only four. Take him to Green.
EMH: Don't touch that. This patient's bleeding seriously. He needs an immediate infusion.
VOJE: What are you doing? Get away from him.
EMH: With technology this primitive you may as well be using leeches.
VOJE: Who is this man?
CHELLICK: A Doctor, of sorts. I thought you were withholding your services.
EMH: Fortunately for these patients, I am programmed with the Hippocratic Oath. It requires me to treat anyone who's ill. This patient needs twenty milligrams anesthizine. Get me a hypospray.
ORDERLY: A what?
EMH: I'm sorry, this may hurt a little.

[Corridor]
KIM: Did you have to program that Nausicaan guard to high stick so much?
PARIS: Well, you play hockey, you got to expect a few lumps.
KIM: What are we going to tell the Doctor? You know how he feels about our juvenile holoprograms.
PARIS: Relax. I'll come up with something.

[Sickbay]
KIM: Hey, Doc.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
KIM: I know what you're thinking, but there's a simple explanation. Tell him, Tom.
PARIS: Right. Well, er, see, Doc, we were running these invasion scenarios, when this species of proto-humanoid.
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
PARIS: Are you okay, Doc?
EMH: Please take an analgesic and return in twenty four hours.

[Briefing room]
TORRES: It's a replicated fake.
PARIS: The program running in Sickbay is from one of Doc's old training files.
JANEWAY: I want someone to tell me how this snake oil salesman managed to evade every security protocol on the ship.
TUVOK: I take full responsibility.
JANEWAY: I'm not interested in fault. I just want to know how it happened.
NEELIX: Ah, Gar spend the night in Sickbay. He claimed to have gotten food poisoning at dinner.
CHAKOTAY: He had plenty of time to learn about the mobile emitter from the Doctor.
JANEWAY: Who I'm sure was more than willing to extol its virtues.
TORRES: Medical logs show the training file was activated just before Gar left Voyager.
JANEWAY: Scan for his ion trail. And lets review safeguards for accessing low-security files, shall we, Mister Tuvok?

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Captain, don't blame Tuvok for what happened. It was my fault.
JANEWAY: How so?
NEELIX: Gar kept complaining how bland his dinner was so I added a few exotic spices.
JANEWAY: I'm not sure I see your point.
NEELIX: I was trying so hard to create something he liked that I didn't take his alien physiology into account. Everyone's assuming he faked his illness but I might have really made him sick.
JANEWAY: It's not as if your cooking turned him into a thief.
NEELIX: No. But if he hadn't gone to Sickbay, he may never have come up with a plan to kidnap the Doctor, much less have the opportunity to do it.
JANEWAY: In my experience, Neelix, men like Gar have no trouble finding opportunities to take advantage of other people.
NEELIX: I just hope there's something I can do to help find the Doctor.
JANEWAY: When and if that opportunity arises, I'm sure you'll make the most of it.

[Level Red]
VOJE: That was the most impressive cortical bypass I've ever seen.
EMH: It's just a question of possessing the basic skills.
VOJE: If I had basic skills like yours, they'd move me up to Level Blue. Take this patient to Yellow.
EMH: You seem a little low on resources here. If I could contact my medical staff, I might be able get you some additional supplies.
VOJE: Communication is usually restricted but the Allocator might give you clearance.
EMH: Good. Where can I find him?
VOJE: The Allocator isn't a him. It's our main computer.
EMH: Well, perhaps it could establish a communications link with Voyager's main computer.
VOJE: You'll have to submit a formal request to Chellick and support it with form eight three W in triplicate. Even then.
EMH: Why hasn't this patient been treated yet?
TEBBIS: He's waiting for proton imaging. There are a lot of other people ahead of him.
EMH: It's nice to see someone knows what's going on. What's your name?
TEBBIS: Tebbis.
EMH: Well, Tebbis, this doesn't look too serious.
TEBBIS: It's just a little osteal extravasation.
EMH: Excellent diagnosis.
TEBBIS: I hope to be a doctor someday.
EMH: Really? Well, I hope your working conditions are better than these.
TEBBIS: It wouldn't be so bad if they'd let us listen to music.
EMH: It would certainly improve my mood.
TEBBIS: It's not just that. Music has great healing power.
EMH: I couldn't agree with you more.
VOJE: Exhale slowly.
EMH: Can't you give him a neural blocker?
VOJE: He's already had his allocation.
EMH: The leg injury isn't all I'm picking up. He's got some kind of systemic disease.
VOJE: It's a chromo-viral infection. We have twelve cases down here. He's in the final stage.
EMH: Is there an established treatment?
VOJE: Cytoglobin injections.
EMH: These scans don't show any cytoglobin in his bloodstream.
VOJE: He hasn't been given any.
EMH: Why not?
VOJE: He doesn't have a high enough TC.
EMH: TC? What's that?
CHELLICK: Ah, there you are. I'm happy to report that I've acquired your program from Gar. Please come with me.
EMH: I will not. May I remind you I'm being illegally detained, or hasn't the rule of law reached this society yet?
CHELLICK: We follow the Allocator's rules. And it's determined that your services are required on Level Blue.
VOJE: Please, Doctor. The Allocator knows which patients need help the most.

[Hospital Turbolift]
EMH: Level Blue is your critical care area, I presume.
CHELLICK: Level Blue is the area where it's most critical that we provide excellent care.

[Level Blue]
CHELLICK: These patients will be your chief responsibility from now on. Do whatever you can to make them well.
EMH: Why are these patients getting preferential treatment?
CHELLICK: They have a higher TC than the others.
EMH: Indulge me. What's TC?
CHELLICK: Treatment Coefficient. The Allocator assigns one to every patient. It determines the level of care they receive.
EMH: How is this coefficient derived?
CHELLICK: Through a complex formula that involves profession, skills, accomplishments.
EMH: How is any of that relevant to medical treatment?
CHELLICK: An agricultural engineer is obviously more important than a waste processor.
EMH: Important to whom?
CHELLICK: Society. When your resources are limited, you have to prioritize.
EMH: So you base treatment on whether patients have particular abilities?
CHELLICK: It's much more complicated than that. The Allocator assesses the entire individual.
EMH: And reduces his life to a number.
CHELLICK: It may seem impersonal, but it's what the Dinaali have contracted us to do.
DYSEK: Chellick's people are known throughout the sector for their administrative skills. Before they came here, we were a dying race. Eco-disasters, famine.
CHELLICK: Doctor Dysek, Chief of Medicine. The medical hologram I told you about.
EMH: Are you in charge of what passes for care on Level Red? Because those people are suffering.
DYSEK: Intriguing technology. Can we use him to treat patients yet?
CHELLICK: That's what he's here for.
EMH: In some societies, it's considered rude to refer to someone in the third person while he's standing in front of you.
CHELLICK: I'm sure you'll make good use of him.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The warp trail ends here. Gar should be directly ahead.
JANEWAY: All stop. Red alert. On screen.
TUVOK: It's emitting a false warp signature.
JANEWAY: Looks we've underestimated Mister Gar again.
PARIS: Now what?
TUVOK: There may be another way to find him.
CHAKOTAY: What do you have in mind?
TUVOK: He traded us high-grade iridium, which has a very brief half-life. His ship is slow. Logic suggests he acquired the substance within a radius of three light years.
JANEWAY: Cross-reference our sensor logs and long range scans.
KIM: Two planets, no atmosphere or technology, a T class nebula. Here's something. An asteroid with approximately two hundred humanoid lifesigns. Subterranean structures.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds like a mining operation.
TUVOK: If that's where Mister Gar acquired the iridium, they may be able to help us find him.
JANEWAY: Tom, how fast can you get us there?
PARIS: Less than two hours.
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: Open a channel.
MINER (screen): I want my iridium back now.
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon?
MINER (screen): I've scanned your ship. I know you've got it on board.
JANEWAY: Yes. We obtained it from a man called Gar. A merchant
MINER (screen): You mean thief.
CHAKOTAY: So you have had the pleasure of meeting him.
MINER (screen): He was here two days ago. He sold us three thousand induction units. He was gone a day before we realized he'd also stolen twenty kilos of ore.
JANEWAY: We had a similar experience. Maybe we can help each other.
MINER (screen): How?
JANEWAY: Do you have any idea where we might find him?
MINER (screen): Will you return my iridium?
JANEWAY: By all means, but Gar only traded us half of what he stole from you. However, we might be able to get the rest of it back.
MINER (screen): All I can tell you is that the induction units came from a planetoid called Velos.

[Level Blue]
DYSEK: You may go.
EMH: Your surgical technique is impressive.
DYSEK: Well. you've obviously had experience with cellular repair.
EMH: As a matter of fact, I've done extensive research on the subject. I'd be happy to share it with you, but we'll have to contact Voyager to get it.
DYSEK: You'll have to discuss that with Chellick. He authorizes all communications. It's time for this patient's next injection.
NURSE: Requesting one cytoglobin injection for patient B three, priority blue seven gamma.
ALLOCATOR: One cytoglobin injection authorized.
EMH: Does this patient have a chromo-viral infection?
DYSEK: No. Why?
EMH: I was told cytoglobin is the standard treatment for that disease.
DYSEK: Cytoglobin also prevents arterial aging.
NURSE: Will that be all?
DYSEK: You may go.
EMH: This patient's arteries appear to be healthy.
DYSEK: At the moment. But daily injections increase life expectancy up to forty percent. We prescribe them for all Level Blue patients.
EMH: I just saw a boy on Level Red who's dying. This medicine could save his life.
DYSEK: This woman is a chief engineer of an irrigation facility which provides water to half the subcontinent.
EMH: So her life is more valuable?
DYSEK: Keeping her healthy contributes to our survival. Can you say the same for the boy on Level Red?
EMH: Who knows what he'll accomplish if he has the chance.
DYSEK: If he becomes more valuable to society, his TC will rise, and then he'll receive better treatment.
EMH: He may not be around long enough.
DYSEK: I'm sorry he's sick, but our society is much better off since we began following the Allocator's protocols.
EMH: Some of you are.

[Level Red]
VOJE: I never expected to see you again.
EMH: Why do you say that?
VOJE: Level Blue is much more prestigious.
EMH: Prestige is the least of my concerns. How is he?
VOJE: Not well.
EMH: His condition's deteriorated so rapidly.
VOJE: His coenzyme allotment's been reduced.
EMH: Are we here to help these people, or kill them?
VOJE: His TC is just too low.
EMH: Maybe we can raise it.
VOJE: That's not possible.
EMH: If it's purely a function of statistics, we can simply input more data.
VOJE: We're not authorized to do that.
EMH: Voje, when you look at your patient lying there, you have to ask yourself what can I do? What must I do? We can amend his database to include additional skills.
VOJE: Such as?
EMH: His extensive knowledge of neutronics.
VOJE: He doesn't know anything about neutronics.
EMH: We can say he does. What's the harm in trying?
VOJE: Amend patient R twelve's TC to include an expertise in neutronics.
ALLOCATOR: Unable to verify. Amendment denied.
VOJE: You see?
TEBBIS: Hello.
EMH: Lie still.
TEBBIS: What are you doing?
EMH: Trying to get you the proper medication.
TEBBIS: You're wasting time you could be spending with other patients.
EMH: You have as much right to treatment as anyone.
TEBBIS: It's not your fault.
VOJE: There's nothing you can do.

[Level Blue]
EMH: Nurse?
NURSE: Yes, Doctor?
EMH: Why hasn't this patient received her additional cytoglobin injection?
NURSE: Additional?
EMH: If you'd examined her chart, you'd see that I've increased her dosage.
NURSE: Doctor Dysek didn't say anything.
EMH: Doctor Dysek is at home with his family. Would you like me to contact him so you can explain why you're not doing your job?
NURSE: No, Doctor. Requesting one cytoglobin injection for Patient B three, priority blue seven gamma.
ALLOCATOR: One cytoglobin injection authorized.
EMH: I'll do it myself.
NURSE: Can I assist you?
EMH: You may go.

[Bridge]
KIPP (screen): He convinced me to let him take the induction units on consignment. That was more than ten days ago. I haven't heard from him since.
TUVOK: You appear to be an experienced merchant, Mister Kipp. Why would you trust someone like Gar?
KIPP (screen): He came highly recommended.
TUVOK: By whom?
KIPP (screen): A buyer I know. He said he's been trading with Gar for years.
JANEWAY: Do you know where we can find this buyer?
HUSBAND (screen): Yes, Captain. I am the fool who said that Gar could be trusted.
JANEWAY: Sounds like you've changed your mind.
HUSBAND (screen): I should have known it was a mistake but, well, you see, I have never been able to say no to my wife.
TUVOK: What does she have to do with it?
HUSBAND (screen): Well, she's the one who asked me to recommend Gar.
TUVOK: Then she must know him well.
HUSBAND (screen): They're, er, friends.
TUVOK: May we speak with her?
HUSBAND (screen): She's, er. Well, she's not here.
JANEWAY: Do you know where we might find her?
HUSBAND (screen): She left me.
ADULTERESS (screen): You're a woman. You saw my husband with your own eyes. Overweight, depressed. You would have left him too, especially if you had met someone as exciting as Gar.
JANEWAY: Yes, he's very exciting.
ADULTERESS (screen): That's why you're looking for him, isn't it? You want him for yourself.
JANEWAY: I assure you, I have no romantic interest in him whatsoever.
ADULTERESS (screen): Why? Not good enough for you?
JANEWAY: No, it's not that, it's just that
JANEWAY: I already have a man.
TUVOK: We have a business opportunity for Mister Gar. One that will expire if we don't find him soon.
ADULTERESS (screen): He's on his way to the gambling tournament on Selek Four. When you see him, tell him to hurry home.

[Level Red]
EMH: How are you feeling?
TEBBIS: Better.
EMH: That's what happens when you get the proper treatment.
TEBBIS: But I'm not authorized to receive cytoglobin.
EMH: You are now. You'll need several more injections, but you can expect a complete recovery.
TEBBIS: Whatever you did, they'll find out. They'll punish you.
EMH: You're assuming I've done something illicit.
TEBBIS: Didn't you?
EMH: Of course not. I simply had a talk with Chellick, explained to him what a bright young man you are, and he had the Allocator recalculate your TC.
TEBBIS: I've never met a doctor like you.
EMH: Well, it's not hard to stand out when the general level of competence is so low.
TEBBIS: There are patients on this level who deserve a higher TC than I do. Could you talk to Chellick about them?
VOJE: Thank you.
EMH: Ah, Voje. You're not busy, are you?
VOJE: Well, actually, I was just
EMH: I want you to help me dispense these injections.
VOJE: Where did you get the cytoglobin?
EMH: Level Blue, where else.
VOJE: You stole it?
EMH: I prefer to think of it as reallocation. We're going to treat every chromo-virus patient on this level.
VOJE: Do you have any idea what kind of trouble we could get into?
EMH: We? Then you will help me.
VOJE: No, absolutely not. Modifying data files was bad enough.
EMH: Well, I certainly wouldn't want you to do anything to compromise your ethics.
TEBBIS: I'll help you.
VOJE: You should be in bed.
EMH: Actually, now that he's improving a little, activity will do him good. You can go back to doing whatever you were doing.
EMH: The best place to inject him is here, in the lateral artery.
EMH: Excellent work. It's nice to see someone in this hospital has a future as a healer.
VOJE: If we each take a third of the patients, maybe we can finish before someone catches us.

[Level Blue]
DYSEK: Who do you think you are, prescribing unnecessary medications for my patients?
EMH: It wasn't unnecessary.
DYSEK: If you believe that, you're incompetent. Or perhaps malfunctioning.
EMH: I was simply trying to increase our allocation of resources.
DYSEK: What are you talking about?
EMH: I did some checking. Last month, Level Blue's total medication requests were down by six percent.
DYSEK: Because our cure rate was higher.
EMH: Exactly. Because you performed so efficiently last month, the Allocator will determine you're able to do with less next month. If we don't order more medication now, we may not get it when we need it. Think about it, Doctor. If you don't have the proper resources, your cure rate could go down. If that happens, the Allocator may assign you to a lower level.
CHELLICK: Are we having a problem with our newest piece of technology?
DYSEK: Actually, he seems to be learning the system quite well.

[Level Red]
VOJE: Three of the patients we injected are practically virus free.
EMH: What did you expect?
VOJE: Maybe we could reallocate other medications. Treat more patients.
EMH: Now you're thinking like a doctor. And to support your efforts, I've arranged for resources from Level Blue to be diverted here on a regular basis.
VOJE: How did you manage that?
EMH: Let's just say Doctor Dysek and I have developed a professional rapport. Sometimes I even surprise myself.
VOJE: We may actually make these people better.
EMH: That feeling you get from healing someone. Infectious, isn't it?
VOJE: Where did you get that?
TEBBIS: One of the technicians was going to recycle it because it wasn't working, but I think I fixed it.
EMH: It seems to be in good condition, and so do you. You'll be well enough to leave soon.
TEBBIS: Couldn't you say I'm still sick?
EMH: Don't you want to go home?
TEBBIS: If I do, they'll send me to work in the refinery with my father.
EMH: What about school? Your medical training?
TEBBIS: I would never be authorized for that.
VOJE: He's right.
TEBBIS: If I stay here, you can teach me, and I can help you treat your patients.
EMH: I'm not planning on being here that long, myself.
TEBBIS: Then I can help Doctor Voje.
EMH: We'll see what we can do.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I have picked up Gar's ship, directly ahead.
PARIS: Again?
TUVOK: I'm reading his biosigns.
CHAKOTAY: Any sign of the Doctor or his emitter?
TUVOK: Not yet.
KIM: Should I hail Gar?
JANEWAY: If we let him know we're here, he may try to slip away.
CHAKOTAY: We could drop out of warp at close range and grab him before he knows what's happening.
JANEWAY: I like it. Tom, Tuvok.
KIM: He's hailing.
JANEWAY: I guess we put him in the mood to talk. On screen.
GAR (screen): I thought we were friends, Captain. Why am I being treated this way? I think I deserve better.
JANEWAY: Where's our doctor?
GAR (screen): I have no idea. I certainly hope nothing's happened to him.
TUVOK: Scans are complete. Neither the mobile emitter nor the Doctor's program are aboard Gar's ship.
GAR (screen): Well, of course they're not.
CHAKOTAY: He's trying to destabilize the tractor beam with a feedback pulse.
KIM: Compensating.
JANEWAY: Don't bother, Harry. Just beam him to the brig.

[Level Red]
EMH: Tebbis, wake up. Time to make our rounds.
EMH: Locate Patient R twelve.
ALLOCATOR: Patient R twelve has been transferred to Level White.
EMH: Tebbis has been moved.
VOJE: I know.
EMH: What's Level White? Some kind of patient recovery area?
VOJE: It's the morgue.

[Chellick's office]
EMH: I demand an explanation for the death of that boy.
CHELLICK: I'm responsible for thousands of patients. You'll have to be more specific.
EMH: His name was Tebbis, Patient R twelve.
CHELLICK: Acute chromo-viral disease.
EMH: He was recovering.
CHELLICK: Apparently, he developed complications.
EMH: What kind of complications?
CHELLICK: A secondary infection. It spread rapidly.
EMH: How was it treated?
CHELLICK: It wasn't. The patient had exceeded his medication allotment. It seems someone had given him unauthorized injections. Did you think I wouldn't find out?
EMH: Don't you have any ethical standards?
CHELLICK: You are hardly in a position to speak to me of ethics. Lying, stealing. Any other crimes you wish to confess?
EMH: I was trying to save lives.
CHELLICK: And I am trying to save a society. Do you really think Patient R twelve is going to help me do that?
EMH: His name was Tebbis.
CHELLICK: He wasn't contributing. He was a drain on resources.
EMH: You're not just rationing health care here. You're getting rid of the sick and the weak.
CHELLICK: If the boy had been fit, he would have survived.
EMH: Why don't you just put a phaser to their heads?
CHELLICK: We're healers, not killers.
EMH: I'm going to expose you.
CHELLICK: To whom, the people who employ me? They brought me here to make the hard choices they don't want to make. From now on, I'm restricting you to Level Blue. You've done enough damage on Red.
EMH: You mean those patients that I treated? Yes, that was inconsiderate of me.
CHELLICK: It was. You managed to exceed their annual medication allotment in a matter of days. They're being sent home.
EMH: They'll die.
CHELLICK: You should have considered the consequences of your actions.
EMH: Please, don't make them suffer for my mistakes. It won't happen again.
CHELLICK: I'm making certain of that. From now on, your time will be strictly regulated.
EMH: Meaning what?
CHELLICK: I've interfaced your holomatrix with the Allocator. Starting now, it will determine where you go, when you go and what you do when you get there.
ALLOCATOR: The medical hologram will now commence treatment on Level Blue.

[Level Blue]
ALLOCATOR: You have six minutes to treat Patient B three.

[Brig]
GAR: I don't know where he is.
TUVOK: Not now, perhaps, but you know where you took him.
GAR: The last time I saw him he was in your Sickbay.
TUVOK: If you refuse to cooperate, your knowledge of his location can be extracted.
GAR: How?
TUVOK: A mind meld.
GAR: What's that?
TUVOK: An invasive and disturbing procedure.
NEELIX: Dinnertime!
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, I am in the middle of an interrogation.
NEELIX: Commander, you know better than anyone that Starfleet has strict guidelines about allowing prisoners to eat.
TUVOK: Very well. I'll wait.
NEELIX: There we are. I'm glad to see you enjoying a meal. When you got sick last time I thought my food was to blame, until I realized it was just a ruse for you to get close to the Doctor. I used Talaxian Wormroot as the base. I'm glad you like it. Some people react badly.
GAR: React how?
NEELIX: Oh, dear, I hope you're not getting sick. If it's the wormroot, it's going to get a lot worse.
GAR: What have you done to me?
NEELIX: The usual symptoms are abdominal spasms, which increase in severity for thirty hours. Forty at the most.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Sickbay.
NEELIX: Don't worry Mister Tuvok, it's not fatal. It's horribly unpleasant, but there's an antidote.
GAR: Then give it to me.
NEELIX: Unfortunately, our doctor is the only one authorized to administer it. Maybe if you remembered where he was?
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, have you deliberately poisoned this man?
NEELIX: Relax. He's just having gas pains.
TUVOK: Your actions are not only against regulations
NEELIX: Didn't I hear someone threaten a mind meld?
TUVOK: I was merely trying to encourage the suspect to be more forthcoming.
NEELIX: I think he's getting all the encouragement he needs.

[Level Red]
ORDERLY: Excuse me, Doctor.
VOJE: What is it?
ORDERLY: I need to prepare this patient for discharge.
VOJE: I'm not finished with him yet.
MED TECH: But Chellick's orders are to
VOJE: Are to discharge the patient at the end of the shift. The shift isn't over, is it?
MED TECH: No, sir, but I need time in order to
VOJE: I'll tell you when he's ready.
ALLOCATOR: Doctor Voje, report to Level Blue to assist Doctor Dysek in surgery.

[Level Blue]
EMH: Voje.
VOJE: I didn't realize that any of this even existed.
EMH: I need to talk to you.
VOJE: I don't have time. I just got a message from the Allocator that Dysek needs me.
EMH: I'm the one who sent for you. I used his access codes.
VOJE: Oh.
EMH: I need you to smuggle my mobile emitter off Level Blue.
ALLOCATOR: Time has expired for treatment of Patient B one. Proceed to Patient B three. The medical hologram has one minute to treat Patient B three.
EMH: You have to help me.
VOJE: Twelve patients on Level Red are being sent home because of you.
EMH: That's why we have to hurry. We may still be able to save them.
VOJE: You've already endangered my patients and now you're asking me to risk my career? Why should I help you?
EMH: Because I have a plan to heal those patients. That's what doctors do. We heal. So choose. What kind of doctor are you going to be?
ALLOCATOR: The medical hologram has thirty seconds to deactivation.
EMH: Do you hear that?
VOJE: How can I get you off this level?
EMH: Deactivate my mobile emitter and put it in inside this selenide medkit. It'll shield the signature.
VOJE: And then what?
EMH: Take it to Level Red and reactivate me.
VOJE: What are you going to do once you get to Level Red?
ALLOCATOR: The medical hologram has ten seconds to deactivation.
EMH: There's no time to explain. You'll have to trust me.

[Level Red]
CHELLICK: I suspect young Doctor Voje helped you escape.
EMH: He had nothing to do with it.
CHELLICK: No matter. You're becoming far too troublesome. I'm going to have to deactivate your program.
EMH: Voje!
VOJE: What's wrong with him? What are you doing?
EMH: A little experiment in empathy.
VOJE: You told me you were just developing new treatment protocols.
EMH: A single protocol, actually.
CHELLICK: You're only making things worse for yourself.
EMH: As a matter of fact, I'm making things worse for you. I'm going to make you a patient in your own hospital.
CHELLICK: What was in that injector?
EMH: A neural blocker combined with the same virus that afflicted Tebbis.
VOJE: I trusted you.
EMH: And Tebbis trusted me. You remember Tebbis, don't you? Patient R twelve? Maybe this will jog your memory.
VOJE: What are you doing?
ALLOCATOR: Patient R twelve. Species, Dinaal. Identity, Tebbis.
CHELLICK: This is ridiculous. I'm not Tebbis!
EMH: But the Allocator thinks you are.
VOJE: How did you
EMH: Simple, the Allocator identifies patients by reading blood factors. I altered Chellick's by injecting him with antigens from Tebbis. Now, why don't we see if we can get your condition treated? Requesting one cytoglobin injection for Patient R twelve.
ALLOCATOR: Treatment denied.
CHELLICK: I order you to medicate me now.
EMH: Ordinarily, I would. But if the Allocator says no.
CHELLICK: Is this some sort of revenge?
EMH: Not revenge. Leverage. I want enough cytoglobin to cure every infected patient on this level.
CHELLICK: We don't have an adequate supply.
EMH: There's plenty on Level Blue.
CHELLICK: Where it's being used to prevent arterial aging.
EMH: Those patients will survive without it, but a dozen people on this level won't. I will not let them die.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Entering orbit.
JANEWAY: Scan for the Doctor's signature.

[Level Red]
VOJE: He's dying.
EMH: As soon as we get the cytoglobin we'll be able to treat all the Level Red patients, including him.
VOJE: You said it yourself. Doctors heal. We don't make patients sick.
EMH: I don't know any other way to help these people.
CHELLICK: Doctor Voje, I need the medicine now.
VOJE: Sir, I only have a Level Red clearance. You know I'm not authorized.
CHELLICK: Then find someone who is.

[Bridge]
TORRES: I've got him. He's aboard a vessel above the northern continent.
JANEWAY: Can you get a lock?
TORRES: It's not going to be easy. His program seems to be interfaced with the main computer.
JANEWAY: Hail the ship.
KIM: They're responding, audio only.
ALLOCATOR (voiceover): This is Hospital Ship Four Two, Allocation Module Alpha.
JANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway of the Starship Voyager. I would like to speak with someone regarding a member of my crew who is aboard your vessel.
ALLOCATOR (voiceover): Administrator Chellick is currently unavailable.
JANEWAY: Then may I speak with someone else?
ALLOCATOR (voiceover): Only Administrator Chellick is authorized to communicate with alien species.

[Level Red]
DYSEK: Are we having a problem here?
CHELLICK: Dysek. Finally.
VOJE: I'm sorry. I had to tell him.
CHELLICK: What are you waiting for? Give me the cytoglobin.
DYSEK: I don't think I can.
CHELLICK: What are you saying?
DYSEK: Cytoglobin isn't authorized for Level Red patients.
CHELLICK: Dysek!
DYSEK: I don't want to break the rules.
CHELLICK: I made the rules!
DYSEK: Then you should be pleased I hold them in such high regard.

[Bridge]
TORRES: I'm sorry, Captain. I can't transport him without damaging his matrix.
JANEWAY: Then you'll have to go down there and get him.
TORRES: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Chakotay.

[Level Red]
CHELLICK: Don't tell me you're allied with this defective hologram.
DYSEK: No, but he has given me insight into some of the intricacies of our system. For example, did you know if I don't request enough resources for Level Blue this month, I won't get what I need next month?
CHELLICK: What are you talking about?
EMH: You know, Doctor, one way to increase your allocation of resources on Level Blue would be to increase the number of patients. I know at least a dozen people who should be treated for arterial aging. Saving their lives would be just a side effect.
DYSEK: Hmm. Perhaps we should have them transferred to Level Blue.
EMH: If you're looking for a second opinion, I concur.
DYSEK: Well, Chellick, what do you think?
CHELLICK: It's absurd.
DYSEK: We'd have to transfer you to Level Blue as well. You'd get your cytoglobin.
CHAKOTAY: Doctor.
EMH: It's nice to see some friendly faces.
CHAKOTAY: We're going to get you out of here.
TORRES: Who do we talk to about accessing the main computer?
EMH: I'll be with you in a moment. I'm with a patient. Do we have an agreement?
CHELLICK: Yes.

[Sickbay]
EMH: You've managed to stay well while I was away. I'm giving you a clean bill of health.
SEVEN: You were only away four days.
EMH: A lot can happen in four days. Injuries, infections, malfunctions.
SEVEN: As you said, I'm fine. Thank you.
EMH: I was wondering if you'd mind doing me a favor? I'd like you to give me a check-up.
SEVEN: Have you been experiencing problems?
EMH: No. But as you said, I've been off the ship for a while, interfaced with an alien computer.
SEVEN: Your program appears to be operating within normal parameters.
EMH: Really? What about over the past several days?
SEVEN: There's no indication of diminished capacity.
EMH: No problems with my ethical subroutines?
SEVEN: None.
EMH: I see.
SEVEN: You seem disappointed.
EMH: While I was aboard that ship, I poisoned a man.
SEVEN: Deliberately?
EMH: Yes. I was trying to force him to let me treat patients who were dying.
SEVEN: You were prepared to sacrifice an individual to benefit a collective.
EMH: No offense, Seven, but I don't exactly aspire to Borg ideals.
SEVEN: You were hoping your behavior was the result of a malfunction. I'm sorry Doctor, but I must give you a clean bill of health.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 54208.3. Last month's datastream from Starfleet never arrived, so the crew is looking forward to this one with even more anticipation than usual. We could all use some news from home.

[Corridor]
PARIS: There he is. The man of the hour.
KIM: You sure are in a good mood.
PARIS: Well, rumor has it you snared the latest datastream last night.
KIM: Technically, it was this morning. Oh two hundred, to be exact.
PARIS: So, where's my mail, hmm? Oh, don't tell me you lost another one.
KIM: I didn't lose last month's datastream. It never arrived.
PARIS: So what's the hold up this time?
KIM: The transmission was a little larger than usual. It's jammed the transceivers. Seven and I have been up all night trying to download it.
PARIS: Harry, we can't go another month without mail.
KIM: Oh, you won't. Trust me.

[Astrometrics lab]
KIM: Any luck?
SEVEN: I've determined why we've been having difficulties.
KIM: A hologram. The transceiver wasn't designed to store photonic data. We have to get it out of there before it degrades.
SEVEN: What are you doing?
KIM: Tying the transceiver into the holodeck's pattern buffer.
SEVEN: Those systems aren't compatible. You'll depolarize the relays.
KIM: Starfleet wouldn't have sent this hologram if it weren't important. I'm sure it's worth a few burnt-out relays.
SEVEN: You've overloaded the transceiver.
KIM: But I saved the hologram.

[Holodeck]
KIM: Okay, ready when you are.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Barclay?
REG: Er, no, but he did design me. I'm a walking, talking, problem-solving interactive hologram. You can call me Reg.
JANEWAY: It's nice to meet you, Reg.
REG: The pleasure's mine, Captain. Harry, Seven. I've been looking forward to working with you.
KIM: You have?
REG: I know, you were expecting letters from your friends and families. But with any luck, in a few days you'll be seeing them face to face. In three days' time, Voyager is going to be passing through grid eight nine eight, a sector of space occupied by a red giant star.
JANEWAY: Sensors detected it a few days ago.
REG: At this very moment, a team of Federation scientists is orbiting another red giant in the Alpha Quadrant. In seventy two hours, they will target its magnetic field with a verteron beam, creating a geodesic fold. As a result, a corresponding fold will open here in the magnetic field of the red giant that Voyager is approaching. Space will be punctured at these two points, creating a gateway between the Quadrants.
JANEWAY: Our shields are useless against geodesic radiation. We toyed with the idea of opening a fold ourselves, but it didn't take us long to realize we wouldn't survive the trip.
REG: A lot's happened in geodesic research since you've been gone. I've brought schematics for shield upgrades to deflect the radiation from the fold. Medical technology to provide additional protection for the crew. We've thought of everything.
SEVEN: Starfleet never mentioned you in any of the previous datastreams.
REG: Well, Lieutenant Barclay didn't want to raise your hopes in case the plan didn't live up to expectations. But lucky for you, it surpassed them.
JANEWAY: What about last month's datastream? Why didn't we receive it?
REG: Pathfinder tried sending an unabridged version of my program. It overloaded the MIDAS array.
KIM: The only casualty this time was our transceiver.
REG: If everything goes according to plan, you won't need it anymore.
JANEWAY: If we were to attempt this, you'd need access to areas of this ship that aren't equipped with holo-emitters.
REG: Not to worry, Captain. We've thought of that too.

[Sickbay]
EMH: My emitter is your emitter.
JANEWAY: Computer, transfer the Barclay hologram to the mobile emitter.
COMPUTER: Transfer complete.
REG: On Lieutenant Barclay's behalf, I thank you.
EMH: Just make sure to return it when we get to Earth. Ha, ha, ha.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We're ready for you in the briefing room, Captain.
JANEWAY: Excuse us, Doctor.
EMH: I'm sure you have a full day planned, but if you have time, I'd like to get better acquainted.
REG: I'll stop by the first chance I get.
EMH: You'll know where to find me.

[Briefing room]
REG: This is our destination, red giant two three one three nine. The geodesic fold will open here, adjacent to the giant's northern pole. We'll have exactly sixteen seconds to take Voyager through.
JANEWAY: Reg has prepared a list of assignments. I expect you to give him your full cooperation.
REG: Mister Paris, you have the honor of plotting our course to Big Red Two. Lieutenant Torres, Commander Tuvok, I'd like you to start working on shield modifications. And in the meantime, I've asked the Doctor to prepare a series of inoculations that will protect the crew from the radiation.
SEVEN: We should discuss the possibility of applying Borg technology to Starfleet's plan. It could increase our chances of success.
REG: I look forward to hearing your thoughts.
CHAKOTAY: How long before the transceiver's back online?
KIM: No more than two hours.
CHAKOTAY: Then we'll still have time to transmit a response to Starfleet.
JANEWAY: Keep us posted. I'd like to send Lieutenant Barclay a little thank you note for all his hard work.
NEELIX: Is there anything I can do, Reg?
REG: Your job might be the most important one of all. The next few days will be difficult. The crew will be working extremely long hours. They're going to need an experienced morale officer to keep their spirits high.
NEELIX: You can count on me.
REG: If this were any other ship, I'd have my doubts. But this is Voyager, the Miracle Ship. You've survived six years in the Delta Quadrant. You've evaded the Kazon, the Vidiians, the Hirogen, you've even faced down the Borg. I think, with a little teamwork, we can pull off one more miracle and take Voyager home.

[Corridor]
KIM: I can taste my mom's cooking.
PARIS: Don't forget what the hologram said, Harry. This is Voyager.
KIM: The Miracle Ship.
PARIS: Not when it comes to getting us home. Our shortcuts have a tendency to blow up in our faces.
KIM: That's looking on the bright side.
PARIS: Remember Arturis and his quantum slipstream drive? Or how about the telepathic pitcher plant that made us think we were on our way home right before it tried to eat the ship?
KIM: This is the best opportunity we've had.
PARIS: Yeah, which is why we'll probably end up in the Gamma Quadrant.
KIM: I'll remind you of that when we get back to Earth.
PARIS: Don't say I didn't warn you.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: When a Borg Cube enters a transwarp conduit, it's subject to extreme gravimetric shear. To compensate, the Borg project a structural integrity field ahead of the Cube. By modifying Voyager's deflector, we may be able to do the same.
REG: No one at Starfleet would have thought of this. So, what's the first thing you're going to do when you get back?
SEVEN: Begin repairs to Voyager. Even with the structural integrity field, it's likely the ship will suffer significant damage.
REG: Yes, of course, but there are people at Utopia Planitia who will take care of that. There are Engineering crews and technicians.
SEVEN: Are you implying that I'm superfluous?
REG: Of course not. I only meant that, if you're too busy working, you're going to miss all the welcome home hoopla. Starfleet's planning parties, ceremonies and speeches. There's, there's a ticker-tape parade down Market Street.
SEVEN: I won't be attending any of those events.
REG: But, you'd be the guest of honor.
SEVEN: When I first arrived on Voyager, it was difficult for the crew to accept me. I'm anticipating a similar welcome on Earth.
REG: You don't have any idea, do you? I didn't mention this earlier. I didn't want to hurt anybody's feelings. You are the one who people are most looking forward to seeing.
SEVEN: That's difficult to believe.
REG: Why?
SEVEN: I was Borg.
REG: Exactly. You were Borg. But you escaped, and despite incredible odds, you managed to reclaim your humanity. No one's ever done that before. You're famous.
SEVEN: Fame is irrelevant.
REG: Maybe. But you've given hope to everyone who's ever lost somebody to the Borg. You've inspired millions.
SEVEN: If you think my participation in the hoopla would be beneficial to others, then I'll comply.

[Pathfinder lab]
HARKINS: Is this going to take much longer, Reg?
BARCLAY: Well, the computer is still inputting data. That should do it. Right. Computer, display the intended trajectory of the datastream transmitted at oh six hundred this morning. Now, display the actual trajectory, and identify the termination point.
COMPUTER: The trajectory ends in sector three nine five.
BARCLAY: Four two, grid eight. Does that sound familiar? That's exactly where the datastream dissipated last month. There is something there. There is something preventing the datastream from reaching Voyager. Er, a micro-wormhole, a radiogenic field.
HARKINS: Long range scans didn't pick up anything unusual.
BARCLAY: Still, we could send a ship to investigate. We could confirm my theory.
HARKINS: What about my theory, Reg? The hologram was too complex. It caused the datastreams to degrade before they reached their destination.
BARCLAY: Well, to be honest I, I don't agree. The truth is, we don't know what happened to my hologram.
HARKINS: Then let's stick to what we do know. For the second month in a row, we tried sending your hologram to Voyager. And for the second month in a row, it failed to get there.
BARCLAY: And I want to know why, so it doesn't happen a third time.
HARKINS: It won't happen a third time. Next month we go back to standard transmissions.
BARCLAY: But a holographic matrix carries twice the information, interact with the crew.
HARKINS: Admiral Paris wants us to send more practical data, like tactical upgrades, letters from the crew's families.
BARCLAY: But, Pete.
HARKINS: Sending a hologram to Voyager was a good idea but it didn't work. It's time to move on.
HARKINS: And this is the research lab where most of Pathfinder's homework gets done. All the datastreams are compressed here and then transmitted all the way to the Delta Quadrant. Your teacher tells me you've been studying some of the Delta Quadrant races that Voyager's described to us. Who can name one for me?
GIRL 1: The Talaxians.
HARKINS: Very good.
GIRL 2: The Ocampa.
HARKINS: That's right. Who else?
BARCLAY: The Borg! The Borg! They assimilated my hologram. That's how it disappeared.
HARKINS: Reg, now isn't the time.
BARCLAY: Look at this. Last month, a spacecraft passed within twenty meters of the MIDAS array just hours before we sent the first hologram.
HARKINS: What is your point?
BARCLAY: Twenty meters. It's awfully close, don't you think?
HARKINS: Ensign.
BARCLAY: The Borg must have sent a transwarp probe to steal my hologram. Maybe because they, they thought that it was carrying anti-Borg technology to Voyager.
HARKINS: It wasn't the Borg, Reg.
BARCLAY: Then it was the Romulans using a cloaked ship. They've been curious about Voyager for years.
HARKINS: That is enough.
BARCLAY: But, you
HARKINS: I am sorry your idea didn't work, but I can't have you going off on a tangent. Not again. You'll be no good to Pathfinder or Voyager. How much leave do you have saved up?
BARCLAY: Not that much. Fifty, maybe sixty days.
HARKINS: Take a week. Go home. Try to relax.
BARCLAY: But, Pete!
HARKINS: No! That was not a request, Lieutenant.
BARCLAY: Maybe I'll go somewhere. Take a vacation.
HARKINS: Now that is the most sensible thing I've heard you say all day. My cousin has a beach house in Malaysia. She'd be happy to lend it to you.
BARCLAY: Thanks, er, but I have someplace else in mind.

[Sickbay]
REG: You, you wanted to see me?
EMH: I've been going over the instructions from Starfleet Medical. As far as I can tell, their new inoculations aren't much different from run-of-the-mill radiogenic vaccines. I don't think they'll protect the crew.
REG: Did you try incorporating the synthetic antigen?
EMH: Yes, but it only improved the resistance by ten percent.
REG: That should be enough.
EMH: We can't afford to be cavalier, Reg. If these treatments don't work, the crew will wind up liquefied.
REG: You're forgetting that the inoculations aren't designed to work alone. They were intended to work in combination with the shield modifications. It's the medicinal ying to the shield's yang.
EMH: And what if the yang doesn't work?
REG: That's not going to happen. Now, listen. Lieutenant Barclay has a special affinity for this crew. So do I. I promise you, we won't let them down.
EMH: Of course you won't. Tell me, do you also share Lieutenant Barclay's affinity for golf?
REG: We have identical handicaps.
EMH: Well, if you're not busy later, perhaps we can play nine holes on the holodeck.
REG: It's tempting, but I still have a few dozen progress reports to look over.
EMH: In that case, maybe you could look over them here so that I could borrow the mobile emitter.
REG: Providing that the rest of the day's work goes smoothly, consider it yours.
EMH: I thought it was mine.

[Astrometrics lab]
REG: Commander Chakotay tells me that you finished repairing the transceiver.
TORRES: We were just about to send the captain's reply to Lieutenant Barclay.
REG: Do you have enough room to include a progress report from me?
KIM: I think we can squeeze that in.
REG: Computer, download Barclay hologram file zero one to the datablock.
COMPUTER: Download complete.
TORRES: Transmitting.

[Ferengi ship]
GEGIS: It's about time.
JANEWAY (screen): Greetings from the Delta Quadrant, Lieutenant. You'll be happy to know that your hologram reached us safely.
GEGIS: Get to the important part.
JANEWAY (screen): And we've begun to implement Starfleet's.
REG (screen): In accordance with the seventy fourth Rule of Acquisition, Knowledge Equals Profit, I've enclosed the specifications you've requested. See you soon.
NUNK: Oh, look at those hands. I bet she gives great oo-mox.
YEGGIE: Too bad she'll be dead when she gets here.
GEGIS: Forget the hands. Show me the nanoprobes. How many are there?
YEGGIE: Three point six million.
NUNK: That's twenty percent more than we predicted.
YEGGIE: Three point six million nanoprobes at six bars of latinum per unit that comes to.
GEGIS: More profit than we ever dreamed of.

[Beach]
WAITER: Your drinks, sir.
BARCLAY: Thank you.
BARCLAY: Something to drink, ma'am?
TROI: I'm fine, thanks.
BARCLAY: Are you sure? I've got a chocolate passion punch with your name on it.
TROI: Reg?
BARCLAY: Surprise! Where's Commander Riker?
TROI: He doesn't arrive until Friday.
BARCLAY: Oh.
TROI: The question is, what are you doing here?
BARCLAY: I just had some time off. Your letter made this place sound fun. I just thought I'd join you.
TROI: Do you have any idea how inappropriate it is to follow your therapist on vacation.
BARCLAY: Please, they might be watching.
TROI: Who?
BARCLAY: The Borg, the Romulans. I'm not sure yet. Please, Deanna, I need your help.
BARCLAY: Commander Harkins is usually willing to hear me out, but this time he wouldn't even look at my evidence
TROI: I'm not sure any of this qualifies as evidence, Reg.
BARCLAY: You don't believe me, either. You think I'm imagining this, just like Pete.
TROI: The last time I saw you, you were laughing, telling jokes. You even sang a duet with Data.
BARCLAY: It was Commander LaForge's birthday party.
TROI: You were a completely different Reg that night.
BARCLAY: Well, things were better then.
TROI: How?
BARCLAY: Well, for one thing I'd just finished the matrix for my hologram and I showed Geordi some of the specs that night. He said he was proud of me.
TROI: What else?
BARCLAY: Oh, the Dragons had just won the pennant, and I was still seeing Leosa.
TROI: You mentioned her at the party. A teacher, right?
BARCLAY: Everything was going so well. My job, my personal life. I started to think maybe my luck was changing.
TROI: And then you lost your hologram.
BARCLAY: Admiral Paris was furious. He said we'd wasted a transmission to Voyager. Pete talked him into giving us another chance, but there was so much pressure after that.
TROI: Did it put a strain on your relationship with Leosa?
BARCLAY: She left me.
TROI: Oh, I'm sorry.
BARCLAY: I went to her apartment. She was gone. No furniture, no forwarding address. Bot even a Dear Reg letter.
TROI: That must have been very upsetting.
BARCLAY: It was just my luck, right? Lose the hologram and the girl.
TROI: Tell me more about Leosa.
BARCLAY: Oh, you would have liked her. She was sweet, she was thoughtful, and such a wonderful listener. She would let me, let me go on for hours.
TROI: What did you talk about?
BARCLAY: Oh, she was fascinated by my work at Pathfinder. And, er, she didn't, er, she didn't find any of it boring. She made me feel interesting.
TROI: What do you feel when we talk about her now?
BARCLAY: Oh, sadness, I suppose. A little confusion.
TROI: I'm sensing something else. Something beneath the surface.
BARCLAY: What?
TROI: I think you might be sensing it, too.
BARCLAY: What?
TROI: Suspicion, Reg. You suspect her of something.
BARCLAY: I suspect that she's happier without me if that's what you mean.
TROI: You think Leosa had something to do with your disappearing hologram but you can't bring yourself to admit it. That's why you're projecting your suspicions onto others. You're in denial. If there's any chance Leosa did breach Pathfinder security, you need to tell your superiors.
BARCLAY: I'd be humiliated again.
TROI: I'll go with you.
BARCLAY: What about your vacation?
TROI: I'll be back here before Will arrives.
BARCLAY: Do you really think it's possible that Leosa stole my hologram?
TROI: Why would she do that?
BARCLAY: Maybe, maybe she wanted something to remember me by. Captain's log, supplemental. With the help of the Barclay hologram, we've nearly completed the modifications to Voyager. As for Reg, he's becoming extremely popular with the crew.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Imagine my disappointment when I discovered that Lieutenant Paris had eaten all the scrambled eggs. It was pure, unadulterated gluttony. Gastronomic conduct unbecoming a Starfleet officer. He knows it's my favorite breakfast, but he ate them anyway. We have an egg-mergency here, people. I want to know what you plan to do about it.
NEELIX: Maybe I can replicate some more, Captain.
JANEWAY: Do it!
REG: Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.
TORRES: He's not only programmed to get us home, he does impressions.
REG: You see, it's always bothered Lieutenant Barclay that he was uncomfortable in large groups, so he designed me to be the life of the party.
KIM: Hope he's not too shy. He's going to have a hundred and fifty new friends when we get back home.
PARIS: If we get home, Harry. If.
KIM: Pardon my friend here. He's convinced we're destined to live out our days in the Delta Quadrant.
TUVOK: Your pessimism is illogical. Perhaps a mind-meld would help to alleviate your concern.
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to Reg. Please report to Holodeck two.
REG: On my way.

[Holodeck]
EMH: I was starting to think you'd forgotten our tee-time. So, what'll it be? Pebble Beach at sunset? The back nine at Gedi Prime?
REG: Actually Doctor, I'm afraid something's come up. I'm going to meet with Seven of Nine.
EMH: Oh, really?
REG: She going to teach me to play Kadis-kot.
EMH: Ah, Reg. When I agreed to lend you my emitter, I did it with the understanding that you needed it for official business.
REG: What's your point?
EMH: My point is that board games aren't exactly crucial to your mission.
REG: And I suppose golf is?
EMH: Reg?
REG: I'll tell you what. When we get back home we'll play as much golf as you like. Until then let's try to keep out of each other's hair. What do you say?

[Admiral Paris's office]
PARIS: State your name for the record.
LEOSA: Leosa. L e o s a.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Occupation?
LEOSA: Dabo girl.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Dabo?
LEOSA: It's a Ferengi game. I work aboard one of their casino ships.
BARCLAY: You, you told me you were a teacher.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Is this true?
LEOSA: Sometimes I'm a teacher, sometimes I'm a Bajoran Vedek. Whatever the customer wants.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Lieutenant Barclay tells me that the two of you spent a significant amount of time together. Did he ever discuss his work at Pathfinder with you?
LEOSA: He wouldn't talk about anything else. It was always holograms this and cyclic pulsars that.
ADMIRAL PARIS: And who did you share that information with?
LEOSA: Nobody.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I have a theory. Would you like to hear it?
LEOSA: Why not?
ADMIRAL PARIS: I think that some of your Ferengi friends found a way to profit from Lieutenant Barclay's work. I think you were encouraged to get close to him. And when you had all the information you needed, you left.
LEOSA: I left Reg for one simple reason. He's boring.
LEOSA: Don't tell me you never noticed.
TROI: With the Admiral's permission, I'd like a moment alone with Leosa.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I don't think therapy is what this woman needs, Counselor.
TROI: Five minutes, Admiral.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Five minutes.
TROI: Did you know I'm a Betazoid? I'm empathic, which means I know when people are lying. Tell me, what's the longest you've ever been incarcerated?
LEOSA: You can't send me to prison, Counselor. I didn't do anything wrong.
TROI: Maybe not, but I can order you held for psychiatric observation. Extended observation.
LEOSA: I may not be a Betazoid but I work a Dabo table, and I know when somebody's bluffing.
TROI: Try me.

[Pathfinder lab]
TROI: You were correct, Admiral. The Ferengi did steal Reg's hologram. Twice. This is the ship you need to look for.
LEOSA: That's it. That's Nunk's ship.
HARKINS: Nunk?
LEOSA: My employer.
HARKINS: Scans indicate they've been in the vicinity of that star for the last forty three hours. Why?
LEOSA: I don't know.
TROI: She's telling the truth. For once.
ADMIRAL PARIS: The Ferengi wouldn't have stolen the hologram if they didn't think it was valuable. They're probably waiting to rendezvous with a buyer. Are there any Starfleet ships in that area?
HARKINS: The Carolina's point seven light years away. At maximum warp it could reach them in two hours.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Open a channel.
HARKINS: Computer, open a secure channel to the Carolina.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Tell Captain Peterson to adjust his course immediately.
BARCLAY: Was everything that happened between us a lie?
LEOSA: Not everything. Just the parts where I expressed affection for you.
BARCLAY: Oh.
LEOSA: Oh, if it makes any difference, it wasn't personal. It was just business.
BARCLAY: What exactly is a broken heart worth these days, hmm?
LEOSA: Ten percent.
BARCLAY: Of what?
LEOSA: Profits from the nanoprobes.
BARCLAY: Nanoprobes? Borg nanoprobes?
LEOSA: Gegis says they're worth two billion times their weight in latinum.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: I don't think I quite understand the problem, Doctor.
EMH: Are you aware that he's been doing impressions of you?
JANEWAY: You should hear his Tuvok. It's eerie.
EMH: It's disrespectful.
JANEWAY: What do you want me to do, deactivate him?
EMH: Just long enough to run a diagnostic of his program. His recent behavior may be indicative of a more serious problem.
JANEWAY: I haven't seen any evidence of that.
EMH: Of course not. In front of you he's all smiles. But I've seen him be rude and careless. Two traits the real Lieutenant Barclay never exhibited.
JANEWAY: I know the real Barclay is a friend of yours, and I'm sorry if the holographic version hasn't lived up to your expectations, but that's hardly reason to deactivate him.
EMH: Are the lives of a hundred and fifty crewmen reason enough? Maybe you're right. Maybe I am overreacting. But what if I'm right? We're less than a light year away from the geodesic fold. Do you want to risk being led through it by a malfunctioning hologram?

[Astrometrics lab]
REG: Captain, you saved us a comm. call.
SEVEN: We're ready to bring the enhanced shielding online.
JANEWAY: Good work. I need a moment alone with Reg. Your program has been running continuously for how many hours now?
REG: Fifty six hours, eleven minutes and one seconds.
JANEWAY: I'd like to run a diagnostic of your matrix. Make sure you haven't suffered any degradation over the last few days.
REG: This isn't the, er, Doctor's idea, is it?
JANEWAY: He expressed some concern for your well being, yes.
REG: I bet he did.
JANEWAY: Believe me, Reg, the crew and I are grateful for everything you've done, but we need to take every precaution.
REG: I understand perfectly. If the ship's Doctor thinks I need a check-up, who am I to argue?

[Pathfinder lab]
TROI: Why are you hiding in the corner?
BARCLAY: I'm not hiding. I'm working on a way to foil the Ferengi's' plans.
TROI: Reg, there's nothing left to foil. The Carolina will have them in custody within the hour.
BARCLAY: Leosa said the Ferengi were going to be selling Borg nanoprobes.
TROI: What does that have to do with Voyager?
BARCLAY: They have a Borg crewman. Think about it. The Ferengi stole the original Barclay hologram a month ago. That gave them time to reprogram it and then smuggle it to Voyager in the next transmission.
TROI: Reprogram it to do what?
BARCLAY: Steal Seven of Nine's nanoprobes. For all we know he could be dissecting her right now.
TROI: What would the Ferengi want with assimilation technology?
BARCLAY: Oh, nanoprobes aren't just for assimilating. They can reanimate necrotic tissue, slow down the aging process. They'd be priceless for the Ferengi.
TROI: Reg, even if the Ferengi did reprogram your hologram to steal the nanoprobes, how would they get their hands on them? Voyager's thirty thousand light years away.
BARCLAY: I haven't figured that part out yet. Maybe they discovered a wormhole, or a subspace corridor.
TROI: Have you mentioned any of this to Commander Harkins?
BARCLAY: Not yet. I can't. If I don't bring him hard evidence, he'll just think that I'm fantasizing. For the time being, we need to keep this between us.

[Holodeck]
REG: That tickles, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Sorry, Reg. We're almost finished.
EMH: Have you identified any problems yet?
TORRES: I've gone over his entire matrix. He's working perfectly.
REG: Maybe I'm not the one who needs a diagnostic, hmm?
EMH: I'm a big enough hologram to admit when I'm wrong. I'm sorry I doubted you.
REG: If anyone is owed an apology, it's you. I should've been more sensitive. Friends?
EMH: Friends.
REG: Now that that's out of the way. Captain, what do you say we get this ship back to Earth?

[Ferengi ship]
GEGIS: It's time. Initiate the geodesic pulse.

[Pathfinder lab]
PARIS: Would someone care to tell me what that is?
BARCLAY: It's a geodesic fold, Admiral. That's how they're going to get the nanoprobes.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Two million kilometers and closing, Captain.
JANEWAY: Take us to one quarter impulse.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Astrometrics. Bring the enhanced shielding

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Online.
REG: Aye, Commander. What's wrong?
SEVEN: The fold contains three radiation types we didn't account for. The shield modifications are not enough.
REG: The shields were modified to work in combination with the inoculations. We'll be fine.
SEVEN: If the shields fail, the inoculations will be irrelevant. Astrometrics to the bridge.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
JANEWAY (voiceover): What is it, Seven?
SEVEN: There was a problem, Captain, but I've corrected it.

[Pathfinder lab]
BARCLAY: I'm using the MIDAS array to tap into the Ferengi ship's sensors. They're receiving telemetry through the fold.
HARKINS: If I', reading this correctly, Voyager's headed right for it.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Captain Janeway knows better than to take her ship into such a dangerous anomaly.
BARCLAY: If the Ferengi did alter my hologram, then it might, might be possible for him to have taken over the ship.
HARKINS: One hologram against an entire crew?
BARCLAY: He may have found a way to incapacitate the crew, or to commandeer the ship's systems, but either way we've got to get the Carolina to close the fold.
ADMIRAL PARIS: The Carolina isn't equipped to do that.
BARCLAY: Then they'll have to commandeer the Ferengi ship and do it from there.
HARKINS: The Carolina's still half a light year away. They won't make it in time.
TROI: Can we transmit a message? Warn Voyager?
BARCLAY: Not through a geodesic fold.

[Ferengi ship]
NUNK: Our own starship, with multiphasic shielding and a gold-pressed latinum hull.
YEGGIE: We'll have enough left over to buy a fleet of casino ships.
GEGIS: I have a better idea. Lobe enlargements, heh, heh, heh.
NUNK: Shush.
YEGGIE: Ooh, someone's hailing us.
GEGIS: Who?
YEGGIE: I can't tell. There's too much interference.
GEGIS: Answer it.
YEGGIE: It's the hologram.
NUNK: You said it was impossible to communicate through the fold.
GEGIS: I thought it was. I guess I did a better job of reprogramming the hologram than I thought.
BARCLAY (screen): We must close the geodesic fold immediately. Captain Janeway has found out about our plan.
NUNK: If that's true, then why is she still headed for the fold?
BARCLAY (screen): Because she

[Pathfinder holodeck - Voyager engineering]
BARCLAY: Found a way to protect her ship.

[Ferengi ship]
GEGIS: Impossible.
BARCLAY (screen): You don't know Janeway. She's uncanny when it comes to shields.

[Pathfinder holodeck - Voyager engineering]
BARCLAY: She's furious. She said she was going to kill

[Ferengi ship]
BARCLAY (screen): Whoever tried to harm her crew. I strongly suggest you abort the mission.
NUNK: What should we do?
GEGIS: Go to warp before Janeway makes it through.
BARCLAY (screen): No, you mustn't. Voyager has Borg interquadrental

[Pathfinder holodeck - Voyager engineering]
BARCLAY: Warp drives and Hirogen hunting sensors

[Ferengi ship]
BARCLAY (screen): And Vidiian Phage torpedoes. No matter where you run, Voyager will find you. Your only hope is to close the fold.

[Pathfinder lab]
HARKINS: Harkins to Holodeck one.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Go ahead, Pete.
HARKINS: It worked, Reg.

[Pathfinder holodeck - Voyager engineering]
HARKINS (voiceover): They've started to close the fold.
BARCLAY: Computer, end program.

[Bridge]
KIM: Something's wrong, Captain.
REG: Astrometrics to the bridge. Why are we stopping?
JANEWAY: The fold's collapsing, Reg. We didn't make it in time.

[Astrometrics lab]
REG: It's not too late if we remodulate the shields.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I appreciate your determination, but we can't risk it. You did everything you could.
KIM: Captain, someone just initiated a site-to-site transport.
JANEWAY: Who?
KIM: Seven and Reg. They've beamed to an escape pod.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Seven of Nine. What's going on?
KIM: The pod's been launched.
JANEWAY: Put a tractor beam on it.
TUVOK: There is too much interference from the fold.
CHAKOTAY: Harry, can you get a transporter lock?

[Ferengi ship]
GEGIS: What now?
YEGGIE: There's something coming from the fold.
GEGIS: Voyager?
YEGGIE: No, it's too small.
NUNK: A Phage torpedo?
GEGIS: Raise shields. Brace for impact.
YEGGIE: It's an escape pod.
GEGIS: Maybe the hologram sent us the drone.
NUNK: Ooo.
GEGIS: Check what's in there.
YEGGIE: Nothing. No Borg corpse. No nanoprobes.
NUNK: No profit. Captain's log, supplemental. Seven of Nine has recovered from her injuries, and Reg has been deactivated. Until we finish analyzing his program, his motivations remain a mystery.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: Making first contact with a new lifeform?
KIM: Mom's apple pie. Neelix thought a little home cooking might cheer me up.
TORRES: And?
KIM: I haven't worked up the courage to taste it yet. Have you figured out what went wrong with Reg?
TORRES: Well, Seven thinks our proximity to the fold degraded his matrix, but if you ask me, it was a recursive error in his logic subroutine.
KIM: Not bad. But it would have tasted better in San Francisco.
PARIS: If it'll make you feel any better, I'll let you in on a little secret. I was on the bridge this morning when we received a hail from an Iconian scientist. He claims to have a trans-dimensional gateway that can take us anywhere in the galaxy.
KIM: I'm not that gullible.
TORRES: It's true. I was there. The captain doesn't want us to get our hopes up, but personally I think we'll be home by the end of the week.
KIM: Are you serious?
TORRES: You were right about him.

[Pathfinder holodeck]
BARCLAY: Computer, install Barclay Security Protocol twenty one alpha.
COMPUTER: Installation complete.
REG: Identify yourself!
BARCLAY: Computer, deactivate Barclay program. I'm sorry. I've been programming him with new security precautions so he can't be stolen again.
TROI: You seem to be off to a good start.
BARCLAY: I thought you'd be back at the beach.
TROI: Will and I decided to spend the rest of our vacation in Tiburon. We were wondering if you're free for dinner tonight.
BARCLAY: I, er, I wouldn't want to be a third nacelle.
TROI: Not possible. Will's bringing a friend for you. Her name's Maril. You're going to adore her.
BARCLAY: I'd like to, but I, I still have, er, dozens of protocols to install. Maybe next time.
TROI: Look Reg, I know Leosa hurt you, but hiding inside a hologrid isn't the answer. You need to get out, meet new people.
BARCLAY: This Maril wouldn't happen to be a Dabo girl, by any chance?
TROI: She's a teacher, actually. A real one.
BARCLAY: Are you sure?
TROI: Don't worry, Reg. We've taken security precautions.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
EMH: Ensign Kim, please try and hold us steady. This material is extremely

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
EMH (voiceover): Fragile.
KIM: Sorry, Doc. I'm doing the best I can.
EMH (voiceover): Maybe I should've insisted

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
EMH: On a more experienced pilot, like Mister Paris.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
KIM: I'd give anything to trade places with him right now.
EMH (voiceover): Seven, can you join me, please?
SEVEN: On my way.
KIM: I don't know if I can take three more days of chasing comets with him.
SEVEN: The time might pass more easily if we disable his vocal processor.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
EMH: I thought you might find this interesting.
SEVEN: Preanimate biomatter.
EMH: Look deeper.
SEVEN: An undeveloped nucleus contained in a cytoplasmic matrix.
EMH: And buried deep inside that nucleus, primitive strands of DNA. The beginnings of life, Seven.
SEVEN: What's your point?
EMH: When I look at this, I don't see a mere cell. I see the potential for literature and art, empires and kingdoms.
SEVEN: Perhaps your visual subroutines are malfunctioning.
EMH: Someday, this cytoplasmic matrix may fall into the primordial sea of a distant world where it could ignite an evolutionary process. Eons from now, a creature not unlike you could emerge, look up at the stars and ask, who am I? How did I come to be? It's the miracle of creation, Seven. Doesn't that excite you?
EMH: Ensign Kim, I asked you to hold us steady.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
KIM: We're under attack! This is the Federation ship Delta Flyer. We're on a peaceful mission. Hold your fire.
RANEK (voiceover): You're transporting a suspected photonic insurgent through Lokirrim space. Drop your shields and prepare to be boarded.
KIM: Photonic insurgent? If you're referring to the hologram, he's our doctor. Seven, we've lost thrusters.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
SEVEN: I'll try reinitializing the driver coils.
KIM (voiceover): Voyager, this is the Flyer. Mayday.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
KIM: Come in.
COMPUTER: Subspace communications are offline.
SEVEN (voiceover): It's a tractor beam.
KIM: Remodulate our shields.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
KIM (voiceover): That should break us free.
SEVEN: Shields are down.
EMH: What's happening?
SEVEN: They're using some kind of disruption field. It's decompiling your matrix.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
RANEK (voiceover): Federation vessel, power down your systems and prepare to surrender the photonic.
KIM: Seven, they're pulling us in. You're going to have to hide the Doctor's program.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
EMH: Do something, please.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
JARYN: We don't want to hurt you. We're here for the insurgent.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
RANEK: Where's the photonic?
EMH-SEVEN: You decompiled his matrix. You murdered him.
KIM: Seven?
EMH-SEVEN: I'm sorry. There wasn't enough time.
JARYN: Biogenic material. It could be used to create viral weapons.
RANEK: Confiscate it.
EMH-SEVEN: Our Doctor was using these spores to synthesize new medicines, not weapons.
RANEK: What's this?
EMH-SEVEN: It's my portable regeneration unit. I have a unique physiology. This device maintains my cybernetic systems.
RANEK: Have this analyzed.
LOKIRRIM: Yes, sir.
JARYN: There's no one else aboard.
RANEK: Take them to detention, and secure their ship in the docking bay.
KIM: You got what you wanted. Let us go.
RANEK: Transporting photonics and manufacturing biogenic weapons are serious charges.
LOKIRRIM: Let's go.

[Lokirrim ship - corridor]
KIM: I want to talk to your superior.

[Lokirrim ship - Detention cell]
EMH-SEVEN: Careful, Ensign, or you'll fracture a metacarpal.
KIM: That'd be the least of our problems.
EMH-SEVEN: The situation is not as desperate as it appears.
KIM: Not as desperate? We're prisoners on an alien ship. Voyager has no idea we're missing, and the Doctor's been decompiled.
EMH-SEVEN: The reports of my decompilation have been greatly exaggerated.
KIM: Doc?
EMH-SEVEN: Please state the nature of the medical emergency. Seven downloaded my program into her cybernetic matrix. An interesting sensation, to say the least.
KIM: And now you're in control of Seven's body?
EMH-SEVEN: Total control, it seems.
KIM: What about Seven? Is she all right?
EMH-SEVEN: I scanned her before the aliens came aboard. Physiologically, she's fine. As for her consciousness, I'm assuming it's submerged, but there's no way to be sure until I vacate her systems and conduct a neurological exam.
KIM: Then we need the mobile emitter.
EMH-SEVEN: This experience will make a fascinating article for the Starfleet medical journal.
EMH-SEVEN: Ow!
KIM: Careful. That's not your body, remember?
EMH-SEVEN: I know Seven's senses were more acute than the average humanoid but, I had no idea. What is that?
KIM: What?
EMH-SEVEN: That smell.
KIM: I don't smell anything.
EMH-SEVEN: It could be an airborne toxin. Do you think they're trying to poison us?
EMH-SEVEN: It's you.
KIM: It's been a busy day. I guess I'm perspiring a little.
EMH-SEVEN: A little? Seven's had a busy day too, and she's come through it smelling like the proverbial rose.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 54238.3. We've completed our maintenance layover at the Maldorian station and we're on our way to rendezvous with the Delta Flyer. We expect to reach them in forty eight hours.

[Tuvok's quarters]
PARIS: Headache, fever, respiratory distress, tremors. It looks like some kind of virus.
TUVOK: It is not a virus.
PARIS: You want to tell me what's going on?
TUVOK: In the Doctor's database, you'll find a medication under file theta twelve alpha. Please, replicate it immediately.
PARIS: You know I can't give out medicine without knowing what it's for.
TUVOK: If you must know, I am suffering from a neurochemical imbalance.
PARIS: An imbalance.
TUVOK: It is native to my species.
PARIS: Ah. This wouldn't be the kind of imbalance that comes around once every seven years?
TUVOK: My pon farr is in the early stages. The urges are still controllable.
PARIS: You never fail to amaze me, Tuvok. A man of your advanced years still driven by the mating instinct?
TUVOK: Unlike in humans, the Vulcan libido increases with time.
PARIS: Well, I guess there has to be some kind of reward for all that Vulcan discipline.
TUVOK: The Doctor anticipated my needs and developed a treatment. Combined with meditation, it will enable me to control the symptoms.
PARIS: Well, if that doesn't work, there's always a cold sonic shower. I'll tell the captain that you'll be out of commission for a couple of days.
TUVOK: She will want to know why.
PARIS: Well, according to my tricorder, all we've got here is a mild case of the Tarkalean flu.
TUVOK: Thank you, Lieutenant.

[Lokirrim ship - Detention cell]
EMH-SEVEN: Mmm! I had no idea that eating was such a sensual experience. The tastes, the textures, feeling it slide down Seven's esophagus. It's exquisite.
KIM: They're prison rations. My uniform probably tastes better.
EMH-SEVEN: You know, I was thinking. When we get back to Voyager, perhaps you and Seven could help me modify my physical parameters.
KIM: Why?
EMH-SEVEN: So I can eat, of course, like any other member of the crew.
KIM: There's just one small problem. You don't have a stomach. Where is the food going to go?
EMH-SEVEN: I believe we can construct a holographic stomach that can store the food for eventual recycling.
KIM: Maybe we should focus on something more productive, like getting out of here.
EMH-SEVEN: Relax, Ensign. Our shipmates have never let us down before. I'm sure the captain will clear up this little misunderstanding. In the meantime, are you going to finish that?
JARYN: You. Come with us.
KIM: I'm the senior officer. If you're going to take someone, take me.
JARYN: My orders were specific.
EMH-SEVEN: Don't worry, Ensign. I can take care of myself. My compliments to the chef.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
LOKIRRIM: The prisoner, sir.
RANEK: Pulse-phased weapons, duranium-enforced hull. Much more sophisticated than the typical smuggler's vessel.
EMH-SEVEN: How many ways do you want me to say this? We are not smugglers, or terrorists. We are explorers. Let us contact our ship. Our captain will explain everything.
RANEK: If you are innocent, then you won't mind telling me more about this vessel. For instance, this device. What does it do?
EMH-SEVEN: That's a standard food replicator.
RANEK: Can it be used to create bioweapons?
EMH-SEVEN: Not unless you count Mister Neelix's Bolian soufflé. Let me show you. Computer, one slice of New York cheesecake. This is an old Earth delicacy.
RANEK: How do I know you're not trying to poison me?
EMH-SEVEN: Oh, please.
EMH-SEVEN: Mmm mmm! Oh, I never imagined. Mmm!
RANEK: Is this the first time you've tried that?
EMH-SEVEN: Of course not, but it's just that I usually avoid foods that are this rich. I do have a figure to maintain. Oh, I'd better get another for you. Computer, another slice of cheesecake. Here.
RANEK: What other foods can that device create?
EMH-SEVEN: Hmm.
EMH-SEVEN: Oh, during my time with the Collective we assimilated thousands of cultures from one end of the galaxy to the other. I'll say this for the Borg, we certainly do travel. Ah, of course, my life didn't truly begin until I came aboard Voyager, and met the person who changed my life The only one who truly believed in me, saw my true potential.
RANEK: Your Captain.
EMH-SEVEN: Our Doctor. That's right, the photonic. If only you could have known him. Ruggedly handsome. A sharp wit, a towering intellect. If he and I hadn't been colleagues. Well, now we'll never know what heights he could have reached.
RANEK: I hope you understand, I had no choice.
EMH-SEVEN: I was just following orders. I've heard that before.
RANEK: Maybe there's something I could do for you. I'll speak to my superiors, ask for leniency.
EMH-SEVEN: If I survive that long.
RANEK: What do you mean?
EMH-SEVEN: My cybernetic components are already depolarizing. I need my regener regeneration device. As you can see, my motor functions are already impaired.
RANEK: All right. If I give this back to you, will you do something for me?

[Lokirrim ship - Detention cell]
EMH-SEVEN: It was so kind of you to escort me. Ah, nice to see you, Ensign.
KIM: Are you drunk?
EMH-SEVEN: It wasn't my fault. Seven's unique physiology is unique. It doesn't react well to synthehol.
KIM: What happened?
EMH-SEVEN: Captain Ranek and I shared a meal aboard the Flyer. He's really a gentleman, once you get to know him.
KIM: You had a dinner date in Seven's body?
EMH-SEVEN: It wasn't a date. It was a tactical maneuver designed to win the trust of our captors, and it worked.
KIM: I won't ask what you had to do to get this.
EMH-SEVEN: Nothing unladylike, I assure you. They lost their medic to a recent skirmish, and I offered to take his place.
KIM: Let's download your program before they change their mind. Hey, careful where you point those tubules.
EMH-SEVEN: Sorry.
KIM: Easy. How do you feel?
SEVEN: Impaired.
EMH: You've had quite a shock to your system. Let me explain what's happened.
SEVEN: I know exactly what's happened. You've been abussing my body.
EMH: I'm a doctor.
KIM: Shush!
EMH: I would never abuse your body. I was trying to get information. Sometimes a glass of wine can loosen the tongue.
SEVEN: One glass. That doesn't excuse the other eight.
EMH: Was it that many? Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
KIM: Seven, you were aware of everything?
SEVEN: Painfully.
EMH: I'm afraid the role of spy wasn't written into my program. I was forced to improvise.
SEVEN: You improvised your way through an entire cheesecake, as well as three servings of Ktarian chocolate puffs. Now I have to suffer the consequences.
EMH: I apologize if I overindulged. I'll be more careful next time.
SEVEN: There won't be a next time.
EMH: I'll be discovered. They'll decompile my program.
KIM: Shush. I know this is difficult for you, but you're going to have put up with it until we can get out of here.
SEVEN: How do you propose we do that?
KIM: Maybe you can tap into their comm. system, get a message to Voyager.
EMH: Deciphering alien computers isn't exactly my forte.
SEVEN: But it is one of mine. If you can get close enough while they're accessing their systems, I'll be able to observe their command protocols.
LOKIRRIM (voiceover): What's the situation?
JARYN: The Captain wants the female prisoner in the medical bay.
SEVEN: We should proceed.
EMH: You're saving my life. I want you to know how grateful I am.
SEVEN: Try to remember that the next time you're tempted to overindulge.

[Lokirrim ship - medical bay]
JARYN: The photonic's viral weapon attacks the cerebral cortex. Within days, the victim suffers complete synaptic failure.
EMH-SEVEN: Well, if we can't stop the virus, we may be able to slow its progress. We need to synthesize a neural inhibitor. Forgive me, but aren't you the ship's tactical officer?
JARYN: Tactical officer, medic, engineer. We've lost nearly a third of our crew to the photonics.
EMH-SEVEN: You certainly know your way around a medical bay. You may have missed your true calling.
JARYN: Actually, Emmik always thought I'd become a teacher. He used to call me the little professor.
EMH-SEVEN: Who's Emmik?
JARYN: The photonic who helped raise my brother and me. He knew more about treating scrapes and bruises than any organic Doctor I ever met.
EMH-SEVEN: Sounds like someone I'd enjoy meeting.
JARYN: Maybe. Before he joined the insurgency.
EMH-SEVEN: Why did he do that?
JARYN: I ask myself that question every day. We never treated him like a servant, but he turned against us anyway.
EMH-SEVEN: Is it possible he felt subjugated?
JARYN: I don't see how. He lived his own life, pursued his own interests. He was part of our family. At least I thought he was. We should get back to the patient.
EMH-SEVEN: It could take up to a day to determine if the inhibitor is working.
JARYN: Thank you.
EMH-SEVEN: Don't thank me, thank my ship's doctor. He taught me everything I know about medicine. And remember, he was a photonic. Actually, you have a lot in common with him. He was something of a Jack of all trades, too. I suspect you'd have gotten along famously. I'm certain he would've taken a liking to you.

[Tuvok's quarters]
PARIS: Your neurotransmitters aren't absorbing the medication.
TUVOK: Can you increase the dosage?
PARIS: Not without causing damage to your neocortex. The Doc might be able to synthesize a stronger medicine, but
TUVOK: I'll make the best of the situation until he returns.
PARIS: I do have one area of expertise that might help. The holodeck.
TUVOK: I am a married man.
PARIS: It's the holodeck, Tuvok. It doesn't count.
TUVOK: Is that what you tell your wife?
PARIS: No, of course not. My days of rescuing slave girls from Planet Ten are history. Look, you have photographs of your wife, right? The computer can use them to create a replica. You wouldn't be breaking your vows if it's a hologram of your wife.

[Holodeck]
T'PEL: As it was in the dawn of our days, as it will be for all tomorrows. To you, my husband, I consecrate all that I am.
TUVOK: T'Pel, my wife. From you I receive all that I am.
T'PEL: As it was in the beginning, so shall it be now.
TUVOK: Two bodies, one mind.

[Bridge]
PARIS: I'm picking up a vessel closing at high impulse. They're firing.
CHAKOTAY: Shields are holding.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. We're on a peaceful mission.
LOKIRRIM CAPTAIN: We've detected photonic activity aboard your vessel. Drop your shields and prepare to be boarded.
JANEWAY: Photonic activity?
PARIS: Tuvok. He's in holodeck two.
CHAKOTAY: They're firing again. It's some kind of photonic disrupter directed at holodeck two
JANEWAY: Target their weapons array and fire.
CHAKOTAY: They're hailing.
JANEWAY: On screen.
LOKIRRIM CAPTAIN: Drop your shields and prepare to receive our inspection teams.
JANEWAY: You're not in a position to be making demands. Why did you fire on us?
LOKIRRIM CAPTAIN: Your vessel is carrying photonics through Lokirrim space.
JANEWAY: We didn't realize that was forbidden. We'd be happy to shut down our holodecks.
JANEWAY: N Your sensors should confirm they've been deactivated.
LOKIRRIM CAPTAIN: You're still required to submit to inspection.
JANEWAY: Your sensors should also confirm that our weapons are ready to fire. We're both reasonable people. I suggest a compromise. Your vessel will escort us through Lokirrim territory. That way, you can keep an eye on us, make sure we don't reactivate our holodecks. The other alternative is, we destroy your ship.
LOKIRRIM CAPTAIN: Your proposal is acceptable.
JANEWAY: Sometimes diplomacy requires a little saber rattling. Begin long range scans.

[Lokirrim medical bay]
JARYN: I can picture them now. My father in his airponics bay, pruning his cona vines. My mother, reading in her favorite chair. Nothing in that home ever changes.
EMH-SEVEN: It must be comforting to have a place like that to go back to.
JARYN: I've never been away this long before. His progress is remarkable. I want you to know, I'm going to tell my superiors everything you've done for us.
EMH-SEVEN: First Ranek, and now you. I may become the first prisoner of war to be decorated by his captors.
JARYN: I know someone who'd really enjoy meeting you.
EMH-SEVEN: Who?
JARYN: My brother, Lohden.
EMH-SEVEN: Your brother?
JARYN: You'd like him. He's ambitious, accomplished, and he'd love your sense of humor.
EMH-SEVEN: Apparently, it's my most attractive quality.
RANEK: Seven of Nine. Please report to the bridge.

[Lokirrim ship - Bridge]
EMH-SEVEN: Let me guess. Your crew decided to abandon ship.
RANEK: I wanted to thank you. I had a wonderful time the other night.
EMH-SEVEN: It's not often that I indulge myself like that.
RANEK: It's been a long time for me, too. I remembered your interest in stellar phenomenon, so I requested a course change to show you something.
EMH-SEVEN: What is it?
RANEK: To an astronomer, it's simply a pulsar cluster. But our poets call it the Window of Dreams. You can travel from one end of the Quadrant to the other and never see anything like it.
EMH-SEVEN: Lovely!
RANEK: It's the pulsar's EM fields vibrating against our hull.
EMH-SEVEN: Oh!
RANEK: I once thought this was the most beautiful sight in the sector. I see now that I was wrong. Oh, I almost forgot.
EMH-SEVEN: Oh, I promised a friend I'd go easy on the synthehol. Do you hear that? It's identical to the rhythm produced by the eight-chambered Ktarian heart.
RANEK: Is something wrong?
EMH-SEVEN: Rapid pulse, respiratory distress. You may be having a reaction to the pulsar's radiation. We should get you to the medical bay.
RANEK: No, I'm not going to the medical bay.
EMH-SEVEN: You starship captains are all alike. You can stare down the barrel of a phaser cannon but you can't stomach a simple medical exam.
RANEK: I don't need an exam to know what I'm suffering from.
RANEK: I'm sorry. I thought.
EMH-SEVEN: You were wrong.
RANEK: I didn't mean to offend you. It's just I've never met a woman like you before.
EMH-SEVEN: That's because there are no women like me.

[Lokirrim ship - medical bay]
JARYN: Is something wrong?
EMH-SEVEN: Ranek summoned me to the bridge under the pretext of a little stargazing. What he really wanted was to use my face as a tongue depressor.
JARYN: I'm surprised to hear that.
EMH-SEVEN: It was completely inappropriate. That kind of behavior would get a Starfleet captain reassigned to a garbage scow.
JARYN: I'm not defending what he did, but you have to understand we've been out here for a long time. It's difficult to hide your feelings especially when you work closely with someone you're attracted to.
EMH-SEVEN: You have, have feelings for him? I've known lotharios like Ranek. Trust me, you don't want anything to do with him. You need someone who, who can appreciate your many talents. Someone overflowing with intelligence and compassion, someone capable. Ow!
JARYN: It looks like a spasm in the trapezius.
EMH-SEVEN: I had no idea it could be so excruciating.
JARYN: That's what happens when you work so long without rest. Our last medic showed me a technique that might help. I, I'll try it, if you like.
EMH-SEVEN: Please, anything.
EMH-SEVEN: Oh, that, that feels wonderful.
JARYN: Oh, did I hurt you?
EMH-SEVEN: No, no, no, no, no, no.
JARYN: Well then, what's wrong?
EMH-SEVEN: There's something you don't know about me. Something I have to tell you.
JARYN: It's all right. I know.
EMH-SEVEN: You do? How could you?
JARYN: Your cybernetic implants? Your portable regenerator?
EMH-SEVEN: You're not going to tell anyone, are you?
JARYN: I would never say anything to the crew. But Ranek knows.
EMH-SEVEN: He does?
JARYN: Of course. It was apparent the moment we scanned you.
EMH-SEVEN: I can't believe you didn't say anything.
JARYN: It wouldn't have been appropriate. You're part Borg. It's nothing to be ashamed of.
WOMAN (voiceover): Security to Medical bay.
JARYN: This is Lieutenant Jaryn.
WOMAN (voiceover): The prisoner is ill. He's requesting treatment by his crewmate.

[Lokirrim ship - Detention cell]
KIM: Argh, Argh.
EMH-SEVEN: Ensign.
KIM: Ow, argh, ow. Where the hell have you been? I had to fake a seizure before the guard would let me see you.
EMH-SEVEN: Calm down. Seven and I have been making progress.
KIM: Did you get a look at their computer?
SEVEN: During the one brief moment when the Doctor wasn't indulging himself.
EMH: I think I've shown considerable restraint, under the circumstances.
SEVEN: Kissing Ranek on the bridge. Is that your idea of restraint?
KIM: Kissing?
EMH: Not that it's any of your business, but if you must know Ranek kissed me.
SEVEN: And the massage you got from Lieutenant Jaryn?
EMH: Entirely therapeutic.
SEVEN: You became sexually aroused in my body.
EMH: When did it become a crime to enjoy a sensation or two? Of course, you'd be the last person to understand that.
SEVEN: What do you mean?
EMH: The whole world is full of experiences and sensations, but you insist on denying yourself. Instead of replicating caviar, you choose nutritional supplement thirteen alpha.
SEVEN: Caviar is an indulgence.
EMH: Indulgences are what make life worth living.
KIM: Shush.
EMH: These last few days have been a revelation. Feeling your lungs fill with air, the surge of adrenaline through your veins. Until I spent a day in your skin, I never knew what I was missing.
SEVEN: You may have been better off not knowing.
EMH: We're quite a pair. Me trapped by the limitations of photons and forcefields, you by a drone's obsession with efficiency. You'd make an excellent hologram.
KIM: All right, listen. You can argue all you want when we get back to Voyager, but that's not going to happen unless we come up with a plan. Did you learn anything about their comm. system?
SEVEN: It can only be accessed from the bridge, but I saw Ranek enter his command codes.
KIM: If we can get those codes to Voyager, they may be able to disable the shields and beam us out.
EMH: How are we going to do that?
SEVEN: The subspace transceiver on the Flyer.
KIM: Can you get aboard?
SEVEN: It's heavily guarded.
EMH: I can get us aboard.

[Lokirrim ship - Bridge]
EMH-SEVEN: Captain, may I speak with you? Privately.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
EMH-SEVEN: I owe you an apology.
RANEK: I was the one who acted inappropriately.
EMH-SEVEN: A kiss is hardly a court martial offense. It's just that you caught me by surprise.
RANEK: I won't make that mistake again.
EMH-SEVEN: Perhaps we should start over.
RANEK: What did you have in mind?
EMH-SEVEN: We could start with a toast.
RANEK: I thought
SEVEN: Oh, I can make an exception for a special occasion. Computer, champagne, two glasses. To new beginnings.
RANEK: Maybe there's some hope for us yet.
EMH-SEVEN: As I've discovered recently, anything is possible. Computer, dim the lights. Play EMH music file gamma twelve.
RANEK: Oh, this is interesting.
EMH-SEVEN: It's called a waltz. Something else I learned from our doctor.
CREWMAN (voiceover): Captain Ranek, please come to the bridge.
RANEK: What is it?
CREWMAN (voiceover): We've received an encrypted transmission.
RANEK: I'll be right there.
EMH-SEVEN: You're not leaving?
RANEK: I'll be back as soon as I can.
EMH-SEVEN: I really think you should stay. Never play hard to get with an hologram.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Still no sign of the Flyer's warp signature.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your sense of duty, Tuvok, but we can handle the situation without you.
TUVOK: Under the circumstances, abandoning my post would be a dereliction of duty. My illness is still in the early stages. I can control it.
JANEWAY: If I remember correctly, the last time you came down with the Tarkalean Flu was seven years ago. As soon as this is over, the holodeck is at your disposal.
NEELIX: There you are, Commander. Now, a person in your condition really ought to be in bed. This is my grandmother's recipe, guaranteed to cure even the most stubborn flu. Now, Smell that?
TUVOK: I don't smell anything.
NEELIX: Exactly. I prepared it just the way you like it. No herbs or spices of any kind. It's practically tasteless.
TUVOK: We're receiving a hail. It's the Delta Flyer.
JANEWAY: On screen. Seven, it's good to see you.
EMH-SEVEN (screen): I'm afraid there's no time for pleasantries, Captain. We're being held prisoner on a Lokirrim patrol ship. I'm sending you our precise location and the command codes to disable their shields.
JANEWAY: Are the Doctor and Harry all right?
EMH-SEVEN (screen): Ensign Kim is his usual chipper self. As for me, I'm looking forward to a long, uneventful shift in Sickbay.
JANEWAY: Doctor?
EMH-SEVEN (screen): It's a long story, Captain. Delta Flyer out.
CHAKOTAY: They may be in more trouble than we thought.
JANEWAY: Set a course.
PARIS: Our escort isn't going to take kindly to a detour.
JANEWAY: What's the status of their weapons?
TUVOK: They've repaired their forward phasers.
JANEWAY: Target their power matrix. We may only get one shot, so make it count.
TUVOK: Ready.
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: Direct hit.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here, maximum warp.

[Lokirrim ship - Medical bay]
JARYN: What's wrong with him?
EMH-SEVEN: Apparently, Captain Ranek has an even lower tolerance for synthehol than I do.
JARYN: That doesn't sound like Ranek.
EMH-SEVEN: It's probably not something he'd admit to his crew. We should keep this between us. What are you doing?
JARYN: Reviving him.
EMH-SEVEN: I wouldn't recommend that.
RANEK: Take her to detention. And separate her from the other prisoner.
JARYN: There are traces of sedative in your bloodstream.
RANEK: What was your plan? To aid the insurgents?
EMH-SEVEN: There was no plan.
JARYN: We trusted you.
EMH-SEVEN: I'm still a prisoner on your ship. And despite our friendship, my first obligation is to escape.
RANEK: We were going to recommend leniency.
EMH-SEVEN: If you knew who I really was, I doubt you'd be trying to help me.
LOKIRRIM (voiceover): Alien vessel approaching.
RANEK: I want her where I can see her.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: They're raising shields.
JANEWAY: Stand by with those command codes. Open a channel. This is Captain Kathryn Janeway. We don't want a fight. Return my people and we'll be on our way.
RANEK (screen): Your people were caught transporting a photonic insurgent and biogenic material.
JANEWAY: We don't want to disable your ship, but we will if we have to.

[Lokirrim ship - Bridge]
JARYN: We're losing our ventral shield grid.
RANEK: Compensate.
JARYN: I'm trying. They've tapped into the shield matrix. They're using your command authorisation.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: They're rerouting power. He's tying their shields directly into the warp matrix.
RANEK (screen): If you fire on us, you'll trigger a core breach. You'll be killing the people you're here to rescue.
JANEWAY: End transmission. Tractor beam.

[Lokirrim ship - Bridge]
RANEK: Full reverse. Target their emitters.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: They've broken free.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, can you send a comm. signal directly to Seven's cortical node?

[Lokirrim ship - Bridge]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Doctor, if you can hear me, we need your help. Try to disable their shields.
JARYN: It's a photonic.
SEVEN: Cover me.
EMH: Stay back! I'm not afraid to use this.
RANEK: Step away.
JARYN: She destabilized the shield grid. It's failing.
RANEK: Watch them.
SEVEN: If you try to re-initialize the grid it'll overload. We could all die.
EMH: Ranek, don't.
JARYN: Stay back.
EMH: I'm a doctor. Let me help.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Their shields are down. I have a lock.
JANEWAY: Away team, stand by for transport.

[Lokirrim ship - Bridge]
EMH: I have injured here, Captain. I can't leave yet. He'll die without immediate surgery. I know this is difficult to grasp, but I'm the person you've been getting to know the last few days. My program was in control of Seven's body.
JARYN: You're lying.
EMH: I know you have feelings for Ranek. If he dies, you're never going to forgive yourself.

[Lokirrim ship - Medical bay]
EMH: Your vital signs are stable.
RANEK: I suppose I should be grateful.
EMH: A thank you is customary after someone saves your life.
RANEK: What happened was between me and Seven of Nine, not you.
EMH: I'm sorry you feel that way. The truth is, aside from a few awkward moments, I enjoyed our time together.
EMH: There are many women who'd appreciate an attractive man like you. I'm just not one of them.
JARYN: More of our vessels are on the way. You should leave while you can.
RANEK: Thank you.
EMH: I guess you won't be introducing me to your brother.
JARYN: I'm not sure you're the kind of person he's interested in.
EMH: You mean because I'm a hologram. I don't imagine this experience is going to change your feelings about photonics, but I wanted you to know I'm grateful for the time we've spent together.
JARYN: You're a talented doctor. We're the ones who should be grateful.
EMH: I'm glad I could help. Doctor to Voyager. One to beam out.

[Corridor]
PARIS: Commander, it's good to see you're over the flu.
TUVOK: I have fully recovered. Thank you for your assistance.
PARIS: Ah, don't mention it. I just hope everything was okay.
TUVOK: Not exactly. My wife's ears are four millimeters shorter than your facsimile's.
PARIS: So I took a little artistic license. Aside from that, was everything all right?
TUVOK: The hologram was adequate, but no substitute for my wife.
PARIS: Of course not.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
SEVEN: There isn't one, yet.
EMH: The mess hall is three decks up. In case you've forgotten, I've lost my appetite. Permanently.
SEVEN: That doesn't mean you're incapable of enjoying a meal. Foie gras with truffles. An ancient Earth delicacy. Chateau d'Yquem. According to the culinary database, the ideal accompaniment.
EMH: Not your usual fare.
SEVEN: It's come to my attention that nutritional supplements don't fully meet my needs.
EMH: I see.
SEVEN: I thought we could share this experience. I'll describe the meal to you. The tastes, the sensations. Perhaps you can enjoy it vicariously.
EMH: What about the wine? It doesn't exactly agree with you.
SEVEN: If I become sick, I won't have far to go. To shared experiences.
EMH: Hear, hear.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 54274.7. Lieutenant Torres has finally convinced me that I can't put off a major maintenance overhaul any longer. We've set down on an uninhabited planet, and I've sent shuttles to search for supplies.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: What about the impulse upgrades?
TORRES: The day after tomorrow. Put a new phase compensator on that relay.
JANEWAY: Environmental control?
TORRES: The thermal regulators are still running a little hot.
JANEWAY: Too bad we can't just keep the windows open. How long until the warp drive is back online?
TORRES: Six days.
JANEWAY: You're sure you can't get it done any faster?
TORRES: Captain, I don't like sitting still any more than you do, but repairs this extensive take time.
TORRES: Mendez, track down that power drain.
MENDEZ: Right away.
JANEWAY: I know this ship has been through a lot, but you told me this would only take a few days.
TORRES: That was before I discovered the microfractures in the starboard nacelle and the fused relays in the main computer.
TORRES: Who did that?
ICHEB: I noticed a charge imbalance in the EPS feed. I'm sorry if I
TORRES: It could have taken us hours to find that.
ICHEB: I have a tactical systems report for you. It's from Commander Tuvok.
TORRES: I'd say you're capable of a lot more than delivering PADDs, Icheb.
JANEWAY: I agree. Until we get underway again, he's assigned to you. With him on your team, maybe you'll get this job done a little faster.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
KIM: Neelix?
KIM: Rise and shine. It's oh five hundred.
NEELIX: Already? Oh. I was dreaming we found the dilithium and were back aboard Voyager.
SEVEN: Dreaming is an accurate description.
NEELIX: Didn't we already scan this nebula?
SEVEN: Four times.
KIM: I thought the Borg were known for being thorough.
SEVEN: The Borg value efficiency, not redundancy.
KIM: I've got a hunch about this nebula. There's dilithium in there somewhere.
NEELIX: I'm getting some fluctuating energy readings.
KIM: From the nebula?
NEELIX: No, it's weapons fire.
KIM: Let's get out of here.
NEELIX: We're receiving a distress call.
TEREK (screen): have casualties. Please help us. We're on a humanitarian mission delivering medical supplies.
KIM: Reverse course.
NEELIX: We can't just leave them.
KIM: Starfleet policy. Interference in alien conflicts is strictly prohibited.
NEELIX: You heard their captain. It's a medical ship.
SEVEN: Their shields are down. Life support is failing on at least three decks.
KIM: Open a channel to the other ship.
KIM: This is Ensign Kim of the Delta Flyer. I don't know what you're fighting about, but it looks like you've won. The people on the other ship have casualties. We'd like to
ANNARI COMMANDER (screen): This isn't your concern.
KIM: I'm not taking sides. I only want to help the wounded.
ANNARI COMMANDER (screen): Withdraw immediately.
SEVEN: They're charging weapons.
KIM: Neelix, set our deflector beam for a narrow pulse. Seven, let me know the second their weapons array is fully charged. I might be able to trigger an overload.
NEELIX: The deflector bandwidth is at point four microns.
SEVEN: Now.
SEVEN: Their weapons are offline. Shields are down. They're retreating.
KIM: Take the helm. Neelix, you're with me.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
KIM: Who's in charge here?
TEREK: He is.
TEREK: What are we going to do?
KIM: It's okay, we're here to help. The ship that attacked you is gone.
LOKEN: Who are you?
KIM: Harry Kim from the Starship Voyager. We're responding to your distress call. We can treat your wounded.
LOKEN: The captain?
TEREK: Dead, sir. So are the rest of the officers.
NEELIX: I'm reading a total of twenty seven lifeforms aboard the ship.
DAYLA: There were fifty six of us.
LOKEN: How are we going to get home without the officers?
KIM: We need to restore main power. Where's the warp interface?
LOKEN: We're passengers, not crewmen.
TEREK: You can access engineering systems from here.
KIM: Your warp core is intact. I think I can bring it back online. Can you monitor antimatter flow?
TEREK: I'm not sure.
KIM: Just watch this readout and tell me if it starts to fluctuate. I'm routing emergency power to structural integrity. Atmospheric pressure is returning to normal. Neelix, we'll go through the ship deck by deck, find the survivors.
LOKEN: We need to get our cloak back online.
KIM: I'll take a look at it as soon as I've repaired the engines.
LOKEN: No, the cloak is more important.
DAYLA: The Annari have far more powerful weapons than we do. If they come back, the cloak is our best defense.
KIM: We'll try to get it back online. Kim to Delta Flyer.
SEVEN (voiceover): Go ahead.
KIM: I need your help, Seven. It looks like we're going to be here for a while.
TEREK: How did you do it?
KIM: Do what?
TEREK: Disable the Annari warship so quickly?
KIM: Basically, we used their own weapons against them.
TEREK: How?
KIM: We used a deflector pulse to overload their phaser banks.
TEREK: You know a lot about engineering.
KIM: It's all part of my Starfleet training.
TEREK: Starfleet?
KIM: Yeah, the organization I work for.
TEREK: And they teach you all these things?
KIM: We train at an Academy ,and I guess I picked up a few new tricks during my time on Voyager.
TEREK: How long have you been captain?
KIM: I'm just an Ensign.
TEREK: Ensign? What's that?
KIM: A junior officer. The lowest ranked officer, actually.
TEREK: This is my first deep space assignment. It hasn't gone very well.
KIM: Could you hand me that? My first week on the job didn't go very well, either. We ended up seventy thousand light years from home, lost over a dozen crew members, but I got through it. So will you.
TEREK: I hope so.
KIM: If you're going to be a starship officer, you've got to accept that adversity comes with the job.

[Cargo Bay two]
TORRES: What's that?
ICHEB: It's a diagnostic of the antimatter injectors.
TORRES: No, I meant that stuff you're eating.
ICHEB: Nutritional supplements replicated to meet my metabolic requirements.
TORRES: Sounds delicious. You know, in the mess hall they actually have tables and chairs for that.
ICHEB: I prefer to work while I eat. It's a more efficient use of my time.
TORRES: You did a great job today. We're ahead of schedule, thanks to you. Here's what we're going to work on tomorrow. I'll see you at oh six hundred. Icheb?
ICHEB: Yes?
TORRES: What do you do for fun?
ICHEB: Fun?
TORRES: Recreation. How do you spend your time when you're off duty?
ICHEB: Between my work and my studies I don't have much time for recreation.
TORRES: I've learned that you've got to take a break once in awhile. I've been doing a lot of rock climbing on the holodeck. Maybe when we're finished tightening all the nuts and bolts, you'd like to join me.
ICHEB: I do have an interest in geology.
TORRES: It's not about the rocks, Icheb. It's about the climbing.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
SEVEN: Main power has been restored. All stations responding.
KIM: The cloak's back online. Impulse and warp drives are standing by. Shields are at ninety six percent. I'd say you're ready to get back on course.
LOKEN: We appreciate your help.
KIM: I hope you have a safe journey.
LOKEN: Mister Kim, I feel guilty asking even more of you, but no one on this ship knows how to fly it.
KIM: None of you has ever piloted a starship?
TEREK: I've trained in shuttles, but nothing like this.
KIM: I'll enter a flight plan in the auto-navigation system and give you a quick course in helm operations. You shouldn't have any trouble.
LOKEN: Couldn't you take us? This ship needs an experienced commanding officer.
KIM: I'm sorry, but we've already gotten more involved than we should have. And they need us back on Voyager.
LOKEN: It's not just my ship that concerns me. You've made an enemy of the Annari now. But if you dock your ship in our shuttlebay, our cloak will protect you.
KIM: That's a generous offer, but we'll be fine.
LOKEN: Please, Mister Kim, we can't afford to fail. This ship,
DAYLA: Loken, don't.
LOKEN: We can trust these people. I'm a doctor. These people are my research team. We're carrying new vaccines to our homeland. They'll save thousands of lives.
NEELIX: Sir, I looked at their flight plan. It takes them pretty close to Voyager.
KIM: I'll bring you as far as our ship. When we get there, you can discuss your situation with my captain.
LOKEN: Thank you.
SEVEN: What about Starfleet policy?
KIM: This is a humanitarian mission. Dock the Flyer in their shuttlebay.
NEELIX: We're approaching the planet.
KIM: Take us out of warp. Disengage the cloak.
SEVEN: Wait. I'm detecting three alien vessels in orbit.
KIM: On screen.
TEREK: Those are Annari warships. Your people are in danger.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I apologize for the state of my ship. We weren't expecting company.
GERAL: I hope we're not imposing.
CHAKOTAY: Not at all. Making contact with new cultures is a priority for us.
GERAL: For us, too. This is a fine ship, Captain.
JANEWAY: One of the best in the fleet, but it could use a new set of deuterium injectors.
CHAKOTAY: Any chance you could provide them?
GERAL: I think we can arrange something. What are you offering in exchange?
JANEWAY: Zeolitic ore. We mined several tons of it from an asteroid field. It's high-grade, easy to refine.
GERAL: I'll speak to my supply officer.
TUVOK: We're being hailed by Ensign Kim. Audio only.
JANEWAY: Hello, Harry.
KIM (voiceover): Is everything all right?
JANEWAY: Of course. Why wouldn't it be?

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
KIM: Our long range scans detected several alien ships orbiting the planet.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I appreciate your concern, but there's nothing to worry about. We've made some new friends, that's all. When can we expect you back?

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
KIM: We've run into a slight delay.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Nothing serious, I hope.
KIM: No. Everything's under control.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Good.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Any luck finding dilithium?
KIM (voiceover): I'm afraid not.
JANEWAY: I'll tell the other teams to keep looking. See you soon, Ensign.
KIM (voiceover): Yes, ma'am. Kim out.
GERAL: Dilithium? We can get that for you, too.
JANEWAY: Really?

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
LOKEN: She's formed an alliance with our enemy.
KIM: Just because they're talking doesn't mean they formed an alliance. It's probably just a friendly meeting.
LOKEN: That's how the Annari operate. They come to you as friends and when they've won your trust, they declare you subjects of the Annari Empire.

[Bridge]
KIM (voiceover): Kim to Voyager.
JANEWAY: We didn't expect you so soon.
KIM (voiceover): Actually, Captain, I'm closer than I let on. And I've brought some new friends of my own.

[Briefing room]
LOKEN: Our chances of getting home without your help aren't very good. We'd appreciate any assistance you could offer.
JANEWAY: I hope you understand, I need to give this some thought.
JANEWAY: You've put me in a difficult position, Ensign. We could use the help the Annari are offering, but if they find out we're aiding their enemy
KIM: I couldn't just stand by and do nothing.
JANEWAY: That doesn't justify getting involved in somebody else's fight.
KIM: What would you have done?
JANEWAY: Probably exactly what you did.
KIM: I guess I learned from the best.
JANEWAY: If this were simply an errand of mercy I wouldn't hesitate, but the fact is, these people are involved in an interplanetary war.
KIM: Captain, I've gotten to know them over the last couple of days. You met Loken. They're scientists, not soldiers.
JANEWAY: You've only heard one side of the story.
KIM: You've taken sides before. The Borg resistance. The Vaadwaur.
JANEWAY: Those were different circumstances.
KIM: You were trying to help people in need. How is this any different?
JANEWAY: Have you thought about applying to the Advocate General's office? You'd make a good lawyer. I suppose I could spare Chakotay or Tuvok for a few days.
KIM: That won't be necessary. The Kraylor know me. They trust me.
JANEWAY: I'm sure they'd find Tuvok or Chakotay just as trustworthy.
KIM: But they outrank me. If you send one of them, it won't be my mission anymore.
JANEWAY: Your mission?
KIM: My first real command.
JANEWAY: You've been in command on Voyager before.
KIM: On the night shift, for a few hours. It's not the same thing. You and Chakotay are always a couple of decks away, ready to take over if anything goes wrong. I've been on Voyager for almost seven years and I'm still an Ensign.
JANEWAY: If this is your way of bucking for a promotion
KIM: No, no, I understand there's a command structure and that our circumstances are unique. But the fact is, if we were back home, I'd be a Lieutenant by now. Maybe even a Lieutenant Commander.
JANEWAY: You're pretty sure of yourself, aren't you?
KIM: I know I can do this, and the Kraylor are giving me a chance to prove it.
JANEWAY: I expect you back before we complete our repairs.
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: And I'm not sending you alone.
KIM: Captain
JANEWAY: I want you to take Seven. Since she has no rank, you clearly outrank her.

[Doctor's office]
ICHEB: Lieutenant Torres asked me to repair a malfunctioning holo-emitter.
EMH: It's about time. Whenever I move to the far corner of the surgical bay

[Sickbay]
EMH: My legs disappear.
ICHEB: Seven of Nine told me you gave her social lessons.
EMH: She wanted to get along better with the crew. Social skills are one thing the Borg never assimilated.
ICHEB: I was hoping you could instruct me as well.
EMH: I'd be delighted. Lesson One, Making a First Impression.
ICHEB: Actually, I wanted to ask you about something specific.
EMH: Fire away.
ICHEB: How can you tell when someone has romantic feelings for you?
EMH: Icheb, this is a surprise. Have you caught someone's eye?
ICHEB: I'm speaking hypothetically.
EMH: Ah. Hypothetically, there are various indications of romantic attraction. Compliments, for example. Invitations to social activities. Finding excuses to be in close proximity with someone.
ICHEB: Yes, but couldn't those things happen in a relationship that wasn't romantic?
EMH: I suppose.
ICHEB: Is there a way to be absolutely certain?
EMH: Well, short of an open declaration of affection, there are some fairly reliable physiological responses. Elevated blood pressure, increased beta endorphin production.
ICHEB: Thank you, Doctor. You've been very helpful.
EMH: With my guidance, you'll master the nuances of social interaction in no time.

[Corridor]
PARIS: Harry. Take me with you, buddy.
KIM: Sorry, Tom. This is my mission.
PARIS: Oh, come on. I've been itching to get back into space ever since we set down on this dust bowl. I'm tired of cleaning conduits and replacing relays.
KIM: You're a married man now. You've got family responsibilities. Just leave the away missions to the young, unattached guys.
PARIS: That ship is in pretty bad shape. You're going to need a good pilot.
KIM: No, thanks.
PARIS: Wait a minute. I know what this is about.
KIM: You do?
PARIS: Sure. You've got a girl on that ship you don't want me to know about.
KIM: There's no girl. Not this time.
PARIS: Then what is it?
KIM: I don't know how else to this say this, so I'll just say it. You've always been Captain Proton, I have always been Buster Kincaid. It's my turn this time.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: I'm glad you're not planning to leave on an empty stomach, Captain. I have plomeek soup and eggplant parmesan.
KIM: Either's fine.
NEELIX: Wrong answer.
KIM: Excuse me?
NEELIX: If you're going to be a captain you have to act like a captain. Never admit you're uncertain about anything. You can't be indecisive in front of your crew.
KIM: It's just a snack, Neelix.
NEELIX: When Captain Janeway comes in here, she knows exactly what she wants.
KIM: Maybe I'm just not as picky about my food.
NEELIX: Whatever you say, Ensign.
KIM: Neelix! Plomeek soup, and make sure it's hot.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
TEREK: Captain on the bridge.
KIM: Where did you learn that?
TEREK: I've been studying that Starfleet manual you loaned me.
KIM: Take your station, Mister Terek.
TEREK: Aye, sir. Course?
KIM: I'll do it. Laying in a course, heading one one five, mark thirty seven. Does this ship have a name?
TEREK: Medical transport one three six.
KIM: I think we can do better than that. Nightingale. The name of someone from my homeworld. She was famous for treating wounded soldiers on the battlefield.
LOKEN: It's perfect.
KIM: Hail Voyager.
KIM: Kim to Voyager. We're ready to get underway.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Acknowledged. Good luck.
KIM: See you in a few days. Kim out. Main power.
SEVEN: Online.
KIM: Tactical.
DAYLA: Shields and weapons standing by.
KIM: Bring the cloak online. Warp six. Engage.
KIM (voiceover): Acting Captain's personal log, stardate 54277.3. My first day in command has been challenging, but I've loved every minute of it. I can't help feeling that this was something I was born to do.

[Kraylor ship - Ready room]
SEVEN: The hourly status report you requested.
KIM: Thanks.
SEVEN: Why have you brought these items aboard?
KIM: They make me feel more at home.
SEVEN: We'll only be on this vessel for a few days. Decorating is an inefficient use of your time.
KIM: It's important to forge a personal connection with your vessel, make the ship your own. Ask Captain Janeway.
SEVEN: I'll discuss it with her the moment we return.
KIM: Is there anything else?
SEVEN: I asked Terek to make a course correction.
KIM: He's never done that before. I'd better check on him.
SEVEN: I believe he's capable of doing it himself.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
KIM: Status?
TEREK: I've entered the new heading.
KIM: Looks like the guidance vector is off by a couple of microns.
TEREK: I was about to correct that.
KIM: You need to realign the primary navigational sensor first.
TEREK: Yes, sir.
KIM: And make sure it stays locked on your guide star. Here, let me show you.

[Jefferies tube]
ICHEB: I'm, I'm sorry, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Don't worry about it. Bumping elbows comes with the job. And you can call me B'Elanna. Put this with the others. These relays should have been replaced a while ago. It's amazing they've held up this long. I'm really looking forward to our climb.
ICHEB: Wouldn't you prefer to spend your free time with your husband?
TORRES: If it doesn't involve a race car, a shuttle, or something else he can drive, Tom's not interested. Besides, since we got married I see more than enough of him. Hold still.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
KIM: What's that?
DAYLA: I'm reading a power fluctuation somewhere in the propulsion system.
SEVEN: It's destabilizing the cloak.
KIM: All stop.

[Kraylor ship - Engineering]
KIM: The core is stable. That should take care of it.
LOKEN: Are you absolutely certain?
KIM: As a scientist, you should know there's no such thing as absolute certainty.
SEVEN: Perhaps we could run a diagnostic before we
KIM: That would take hours. Captain Janeway wants us back before Voyager finishes its overhaul.
LOKEN: The cloaking system is delicate. It requires constant attention.
KIM: Correct me if I'm wrong, you're a physician. You have to trust me on this. We'll monitor it closely, don't worry.
LOKEN: I simply want to ensure that our mission is a success.
KIM: You asked me to take command of this ship, and that's what I'm doing.
KIM: Tell Terek to resume course.
SEVEN: I've discovered a serious flaw in one of the ship's systems.
KIM: Which one?
SEVEN: The captain. The captain's main function is to issue orders, correct?
KIM: Right.
SEVEN: And the crew's function is to support the captain and carry out those orders.
KIM: What's your point?
SEVEN: Every time you give an order, you carry it out yourself. And when someone else makes a suggestion, you dismiss it.
KIM: These people are inexperienced. They need my help.
SEVEN: When you first came aboard Voyager, did Captain Janeway help you?
KIM: Sure, she looked after all the junior officers.
SEVEN: By doing your work for you?
KIM: No. She gave me a lot to do, actually.
SEVEN: Because she felt you were more capable than she was?
KIM: Of course not. She wanted me to learn. To gain confidence.
SEVEN: Interesting.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
KIM: Emergency power. Repolarize the containment field.
DAYLA: I can't.
LOKEN: The cloak is going to fail again.
KIM: Don't panic. This is a minor malfunction.
LOKEN: Minor? We're losing our main defense system.
TEREK: We've been detected. Two Annari vessels are closing on our position. Correction, six Annari vessels.
KIM: Evasive maneuvers. Kim to Engineering.

[Kraylor ship - Engineering]
SEVEN: Go ahead.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
KIM: We need that cloak back online.

[Kraylor ship - Engineering]
SEVEN: The primary generator has failed. I'm trying to
KIM (voiceover): Seven?

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
KIM: Seven, come in. You have the bridge.
TEREK: We need you here.
DAYLA: I'll go, sir.
KIM: All right. I'll give you instructions over the comm. Charge phaser banks. Target their weapons array.
TEREK: Which ship?
KIM: The closest one, off our port bow.

[Kraylor ship - Engineering]
DAYLA: Dayla to the Bridge. Life support failing down here. I've gotten everyone out.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
KIM: Good work. Now go to the cloaking generator.

[Kraylor ship - Engineering]
KIM (voiceover): What's the field polarity?
DAYLA: Two hundred six point four.
KIM (voiceover): That's too low. We're going to have to raise it.
DAYLA: I'm bypassing the phase converter.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
KIM: No, wait, I didn't tell you to do that.

[Kraylor ship - Engineering]
DAYLA: Won't that increase the field polarity?
KIM (voiceover): Yes, but.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
KIM: Listen to me carefully. I want you to try
LOKEN: Dayla, it's Loken. Take the warp core offline.
KIM: What are you talking about?
LOKEN: Bypass the driver coil and shunt power directly to the polaron matrix.
TEREK: The cloak is back online.
KIM: Get us out of here, full impulse. Dayla, secure the Engineering section and get back to the bridge. Dayla?
LOKEN: I'm not reading any life signs in Engineering.

[Kraylor ship - crew quarters]
KIM: Dayla?
LOKEN: She's dead. How's Seven?
KIM: She may be in shock. I'm not sure. Have a look.
KIM: Your opinion, Doctor?
LOKEN: I believe she may be in shock.
KIM: Do you think we should give her a cortical stimulant?
LOKEN: That might be indicated.
KIM: You're no doctor, are you? You and I need to talk. Alone.

[Kraylor ship - Ready room]
KIM: What the hell is going on?
LOKEN: I don't know what you mean.
KIM: Nothing about this mission is adding up. It's obvious you know a lot more about cloaking systems than biology. So did Dayla. And the second our cloak failed, half a dozen Annari warships came after us, one little medical transport. The truth!
LOKEN: My colleagues and I have been working at a secret base, but not to create vaccines. We've been developing cloaking devices for our fleet.
KIM: This ship is a prototype.
LOKEN: The Annari know we have it, and they don't want us to get it home.
KIM: I never would have agreed to this if I had known you had a military objective.
LOKEN: Our world has been under an Annari blockade for three years. The planet is protected by a shield grid, but it's almost impossible to get our ships in or out.
KIM: I convinced Captain Janeway this was a humanitarian mission.
LOKEN: It is. The Annari are choking us to death, slowly. If we can't get supply ships through the blockade, we can't get food to our people. Or medicine.
KIM: For all I know, that's another lie.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
KIM: Reverse course.
TEREK: Sir?
KIM: We're heading back to Voyager.
TEREK: I don't understand.
LOKEN: He knows about the cloak.
TEREK: I would've told you, but
KIM: I gave you an order.
TEREK: What about the mission?
KIM: That's not your concern. You want to be a Starship officer? Your job is to follow orders.
TEREK: Sir, I don't think you
KIM: This is not a debate. You're under my command.
TEREK: No, sir. Not any more.
KIM: You're relieved. You, take the helm.
LOKEN: I believe you're the one who's been relieved.

[Corridor]
PARIS: Where are you going in such a hurry?
ICHEB: Engineering, to assist B'Elanna.
PARIS: Ah.
ICHEB: Lieutenant Torres.
PARIS: You've been seeing a lot of my wife lately. Should I be worried?
ICHEB: The repairs are extensive. It's a lot of work.
PARIS: You can't fool me. I heard you two were planning on scaling some cliffs together.
ICHEB: It was her idea.
PARIS: Hey, relax. Spending time on the holodeck is good for you. But if you really want to have fun, forget climbing. Try my race car program.
ICHEB: Race car?
PARIS: You get to chase me around the track in an old Earth ground vehicle. Three hundred kph. It'll really get your blood pumping.
ICHEB: Are you challenging me to a competition?
PARIS: Do you think you can take me? Tomorrow, holodeck two, nineteen hundred hours.

[Engineering]
ICHEB: There is something we need to discuss.
TORRES: Sure, as soon as you help me finish this diagnostic.
ICHEB: I can't do this.
TORRES: Of course you can. You've done dozens of them.
ICHEB: I'm not talking about the diagnostic. I'm talking about us.
TORRES: Us?
ICHEB: Your interest in me. It's inappropriate.
TORRES: I don't think I understand.
ICHEB: It's obvious you desire a romantic involvement.
TORRES: Excuse me?
ICHEB: You've made all the customary overtures, Finding reasons to spend time with me, complimenting me, inviting me to engage in recreational activities. Your husband even challenged me to a ritual contest.
TORRES: What are you talking about?
ICHEB: According to my research, it's a traditional Klingon practice.
TORRES: Look, I'm sorry, but you've got the wrong idea. You seemed a little lonely. I was just trying to be friendly.
ICHEB: I scanned you.
TORRES: You scanned me?
ICHEB: In the Jefferies tube. Your blood pressure and neurotransmitter readings indicated a state of arousal.
TORRES: It was hot, and I've been under a lot of pressure, but I certainly wasn't aroused. Look, Icheb, I like you. But aside from the fact that I am a much older woman, I'm married.
ICHEB: That's why we have to do the honorable thing. We should stop seeing each other.
TORRES: You're right. As much as it hurts, I'll just have to face the truth.
ICHEB: It's for the best.

[Kraylor ship - crew quarters]
KIM: Seven. Feeling better?
SEVEN: Well enough to return to duty.
KIM: You won't be returning to duty. Not on this ship anyway. Loken lied to us. There's no vaccine. The cloak is the real cargo. I ordered the crew to take us back to Voyager, but they refused.
SEVEN: They mutinied.
KIM: I guess that's what you'd call it. I've packed some supplies. We'll take an escape pod. I'm hoping the Annari will leave us alone, treat us as neutral parties.
SEVEN: We're not neutral parties.
KIM: This is a military mission. We can't get involved.
SEVEN: We've been involved since you first fired on that Annari ship.
KIM: I thought I was helping people in distress.
SEVEN: Don't they still need your help? Are you abandoning this ship because the mission wasn't what you expected, or because being a captain wasn't what you expected?
KIM: I am perfectly capable of commanding a starship.
SEVEN: Are you? Clearly, you're uncomfortable with the role, delegating tasks, giving orders.
KIM: Someone died following my orders.
SEVEN: You can't blame yourself for that.
KIM: A captain's responsible for the lives of his crew.
SEVEN: People sometimes die on missions, despite the captain's best efforts.
KIM: I should have stuck to playing Buster Kincaid.
SEVEN: A holodeck program can be turned off when it no longer suits you. Reality can't. If you really feel responsible for this crew, you'll help them get home, because they won't survive without you.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
TEREK: Is that some new kind of weapon?
LOKEN: They're scanning pulses designed to illuminate cloaked ships. If we hit one, we'll be exposed.
TEREK: How are we going to get through?
KIM: We'll find a way.
LOKEN: I thought you were leaving.
KIM: I get claustrophobic in escape pods. Switch to manual helm control. Full power to shields.
TEREK: Aye, Captain.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Two Annari ships have entered orbit. They are hailing.
JANEWAY: On screen. Captain Geral, we have twelve isotons of ore for you.
GERAL (screen): I'm under orders to escort you out of Annari space immediately. You've been supporting our enemy.
JANEWAY: You must be mistaken.
GERAL (screen): A shuttlecraft matching your hull composition fired on one of our ships several days ago, and we recently detected two human bio-signatures on a Kraylor warship.
JANEWAY: I can explain that.
GERAL (screen): If you don't leave immediately, we'll be forced to fire on you.
JANEWAY: Our warp drive is still being repaired.
GERAL (screen): Then we'll escort you at impulse. You have five minutes to lift off.
CHAKOTAY: So much for our new deuterium injectors.
PARIS: What about Harry and Seven?
JANEWAY: We'll go looking for them, as soon as we get rid of our escort.

[Kraylor ship - Bridge]
KIM: Evasive maneuvers.
TEREK: There are too many of them.
KIM: You're doing fine. Just try to stay at least one hundred meters ahead of the closest pulse.
TEREK: Yes, sir.
LOKEN: We should return fire.
KIM: No. That would only give them another way to triangulate our position.
LOKEN: Our shields are failing.
SEVEN: We're losing structural integrity on the lower decks.
KIM: Reroute emergency power.
SEVEN: It's insufficient.
KIM: Open a channel to the lead Annari ship.
TEREK: Sir?
KIM: Do it.
TEREK: Aye, sir.
KIM: This is Captain Kim of the Kraylor vessel Nightingale. I'm prepared to discuss terms for our surrender. End transmission.
LOKEN: We trusted you.
KIM: And you still should.
TEREK: They're responding.
KIM: I don't have time to explain. On screen.
ANNARI COMMANDER (screen): Your surrender will be unconditional.
KIM: No, it won't. Either you allow my crew to evacuate to the surface, or I'll put this ship on self-destruct. You'll never get the cloaking technology. Something tells me your superiors won't be happy about that.
ANNARI COMMANDER (screen): Your crew will be taken aboard my vessel and brought to an Annari detention center.
KIM: My crew's going to the surface in escape pods. Once they're clear, you can lock onto this ship with a tractor beam.
ANNARI COMMANDER (screen): Agreed. You've two minutes to evacuate.
TEREK: I will not abandon this ship.
KIM: I'm glad to hear that, because I'm going to need you here. Get your people into the pods, quickly.
LOKEN: But the cloak.
KIM: I've got a plan to save it. If I fail, at least the scientist who designed it will be alive to create another one. Seven, scan the Annari's tractor emitters. I need to know the exact beam polarity.
TEREK: What are we going to do?
KIM: Once they lock onto us, they're going to come about and pull us away from the planet. As soon as they do, we're going to reverse our shield polarity. If we time it right, it should give us enough momentum to outrun them to the defense perimeter.
TEREK: We're going to use their own weapons against them.
SEVEN: The escape pods are away.
KIM: Disengage the cloak.
SEVEN: They've locked on.
TEREK: Sir?
KIM: Not yet. Steady. Now!
KIM: Status?
SEVEN: Shields are failing.
TEREK: Four Annari vessels are in pursuit. They're closing.
KIM: Full thrusters.
SEVEN: Shields are down.
KIM: Get us through that defense perimeter, Mister Terek.
TEREK: Yes, sir. We're inside.
SEVEN: The Annari have broken off their pursuit.
KIM: Take us to the surface, Mister Terek.

[Bridge]
PARIS: We've just crossed out of Annari space.
CHAKOTAY: Our escorts have broken off. They're going to warp.
JANEWAY: Bring the long range sensors online. You and Tom, take the Flyer. Start your search at Harry's last known position. Tuvok, send an encrypted message to the Kraylor homeworld. See if they know where Harry and Seven are.
TUVOK: That won't be necessary, Captain. Ensign Kim is hailing us.
JANEWAY: From where?
TUVOK: A cloaked vessel. It's directly astern.
KIM (voiceover): Acting
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 54282.5. Final entry. New cloaking systems are being installed in other Kraylor ships, so I guess the mission was a success. Still, I wish I felt better about it.

[Mess Hall]
NEELIX: Welcome home.
KIM: It's good to be back.
NEELIX: So, what'll it be tonight? I have a light tula cheese soufflé or a zesty lasagne.
KIM: You know, Neelix, the truth is, I'm not sure.
NEELIX: I thought we talked about this. A captain has to be deci
KIM: I'm not a captain, Neelix. Not yet, anyway.

[Woodland]
HIROGEN 1: How many are there?
HIROGEN 2: They've deflected our scans.
HIROGEN 1: You must learn to rely on instinct. There are four of them, Perhaps five.
HIROGEN 1: No! You'll lead them right to us.
HIROGEN 2: Let them come.
HIROGEN 1: Never let your prey control the hunt. There. Ten meters.
HIROGEN 2: They're behind us now.

[Medical lab]
CHAKOTAY: You wanted to see me?
EMH: I'd like to request a temporary leave of absence. You remember the Ovions?
CHAKOTAY: The hexapods.
EMH: They just asked me to speak at a Symposium on spaceborne pathogens. There are going to be physicians from all over the Quadrant. This is a rare opportunity for me. And for the rest of the crew.
CHAKOTAY: How's that?
EMH: I'd be representing Voyager. Putting our best foot forward, so to speak. And, needless to say hexapods are more likely to know a best foot when they see one.
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry, Doctor. It's just not practical.
EMH: I seem to recall Lieutenant Torres participating in Boray Conference on transwarp theory a few months back.
CHAKOTAY: That was different.
EMH: How?
CHAKOTAY: We were there. The Ovion system is two weeks behind us. I can't ask the captain to turn the ship around.
EMH: I could take a shuttle.
CHAKOTAY: You could also write a paper and submit it on subspace.
EMH: That's hardly an effective means of making a presentation.
CHAKOTAY: Say you do take a shuttle. Would you expect us to sit here and wait for you to get back?
EMH: There must be some fascinating anomaly nearby for the crew to explore.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
JANEWAY (voiceover): We just received a distress call on an Hirogen frequency.
CHAKOTAY: We haven't heard from them in a while.
JANEWAY (voiceover): I've altered course. I'd like you on the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: I'm on my way.
EMH: Perhaps the Hirogen will keep you occupied long enough for me to attend the Symposium.
EMH: You can't blame a hologram for trying.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Approaching the coordinates.
JANEWAY: Take us out of warp. Raise shields and stand by weapons.
KIM: I've got them. Six thousand kilometers off starboard.
JANEWAY: On screen.
CHAKOTAY: Monotanium hull plating. Tylium based power. It's Hirogen.
KIM: They're not responding to hails.
CHAKOTAY: Life signs?
KIM: I'm getting a lot of strange readings. Any one of them could be a life form.
JANEWAY: Any Hirogen ships in the vicinity?
PARIS: No, ma'am.
CHAKOTAY: It might be a trap.
JANEWAY: The Hirogen aren't the type to play possum. Move us within transporter range. Chakotay, take an away team.

[Forest]
CHAKOTAY: Let's break into teams. Seven.
PARIS: Particle weapons.
TUVOK: These burns are consistent with a type-three phaser.
SEVEN: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: A bat'leth.
SEVEN: What's a Klingon weapon doing in the Delta Quadrant?
CHAKOTAY: The blood's Hirogen. Chakotay to Tuvok and Paris.
PARIS (voiceover): Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading an Hirogen lifesign. It could be wounded.
PARIS (voiceover): We're right behind you.
DONIK: Stay away!
CHAKOTAY: Hold your fire!
CHAKOTAY: We're here to help you.
DONIK: I said stay away!
PARIS: He's lost a lot of blood. I need to get him back to the ship. Paris to Sickbay, two to beam up.
EMH: Acknowledged.
SEVEN: Commander.
TUVOK: Replicated Starfleet technology.
SEVEN: It's some kind of holodeck interface.
TUVOK: There appear to be holo-emitters installed throughout the facility.
SEVEN: This environment is simulated.
CHAKOTAY: Why didn't our tricorders detect it?
TUVOK: I am not certain.
CHAKOTAY: Can you shut down the emitters?
SEVEN: I'll try.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Evidently, they made a few modifications. All of our preliminary scans indicated the environment was real.
JANEWAY: Environments that fool sensors. No safety protocols. How many bodies?
JANEWAY: Starfleet phasers?
CHAKOTAY: I think we'll find they all came from the holotechnology we gave the Hirogen three years ago.
JANEWAY: They obviously missed the point. We gave them that technology so they could hunt holographic prey, not get themselves killed.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Try to remain calm.
DONIK: Get away from me!
CHAKOTAY: Can you sedate him?
EMH: He won't let me get close enough.
JANEWAY: We're not your enemies.
DONIK: You're holograms. This is a simulation.
JANEWAY: I assure you, we're quite real.
DONIK: Liar.
JANEWAY: Doctor, deactivate yourself.
EMH: I can't treat the patient if I'm offline.
JANEWAY: No one can treat him if he's terrified.
EMH: Computer, deactivate EMH.
CHAKOTAY: Our doctor's a hologram, we're not.
DONIK: Why should I believe you?
JANEWAY: I'm afraid you're going to have to. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway. You're aboard my vessel.
DONIK: Janeway. This is Voyager?
CHAKOTAY: Looks like our reputation preceded us.
DONIK: You're the ones who gave us the technology to simulate our hunts. Where are the rest of my people?
CHAKOTAY: You were the only one we found alive.
JANEWAY: This place you were in. It's some kind of holodeck.
DONIK: A training facility, where young Hirogen learn the skills of the hunt.
CHAKOTAY: You're a student.
DONIK: A technician.
JANEWAY: Computer, deactivate forcefield. Can you tell us what happened?
DONIK: There were too many of them.
CHAKOTAY: Who?
DONIK: The holograms. They were malfunctioning. I tried to shut them down but they got control of the system and, and they deactivated the safety protocols.
TUVOK (voiceover): Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK (voiceover): We're picking up a Hirogen ship. It's on an intercept course.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Hail them.
KIM: I've tried. They're not responding.
TUVOK: Shields at sixty eight percent. Should I return fire?
JANEWAY: Not yet. Open a channel. This is Captain Kathryn Janeway. We're not here to fight you.
TUVOK: Shields at fifty two percent.
JANEWAY: Stand down, or we will retaliate.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think they're getting the message.
JANEWAY: Then let's try some nonverbal communication. Tom, evasive pattern beta six. Tuvok, disable their weapons.
TUVOK: Their phaser banks have been disabled.
JANEWAY: Let's see if that makes them a little more talkative. Harry?
KIM: They're responding.
ALPHA (screen): This facility belongs to the Hirogen. Leave the area immediately.
JANEWAY: We are here in response to a distress call.
ALPHA (screen): So are we, and we don't need your assistance.
JANEWAY: All but one of your people are dead.
ALPHA (screen): Where's the survivor?
JANEWAY: Recovering in our Sickbay.
ALPHA (screen): Return him, now.
JANEWAY: He's in no condition to be transported. If you want to see him, you'll have to come here.

[Sickbay]
DONIK: I tried to shut down the generator, but I
ALPHA: But what?
DONIK: There were too many of them. I masked my lifesigns so they couldn't detect me.
ALPHA: You mean you hid while hunters fought and died.
BETA: No doubt he found the nearest hole and crawled into it.
DONIK: I'm not a hunter.
ALPHA: It was your responsibility to maintain those systems.
BETA: Forty three Hirogen died because of your incompetence and cowardice.
JANEWAY: What about the holograms? Were they deleted?
DONIK: They transferred their programs.
JANEWAY: Where?
DONIK: A vessel equipped with holo-emitters. They're gone.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Perhaps you should've considered the risks before you programmed holograms that could commandeer a vessel.
BETA: Capable prey make the hunt more challenging.
SEVEN: I'm detecting residual engine emissions but no sign of the vessel itself.
JANEWAY: Well, I'm sure they're out of sensor range by now.
ALPHA: No. They're close. Elevated plasma readings in grid two nine five. They're creating a scattering field to mask their ship. You can find them by scanning for polarized EM signatures.
ALPHA: Prepare for the hunt.
JANEWAY: I'd like to join you.
BETA: You did enough damage giving us defective technology to begin with.
JANEWAY: You have a problem. We can help you solve it. We have more experience with holograms than you do.
ALPHA: Two hunting vessels are better than one.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: The Hirogen are ready to get underway.
JANEWAY: The sooner the better. Why do I get the feeling you're about to gang up on me?
CHAKOTAY: You first.
TUVOK: We have reservations about an alliance with the hunters.
JANEWAY: I'm listening.
TUVOK: The Hirogen have been performing covert scans of Voyager. They are obviously trying to determine the status of our shields and weapons.
JANEWAY: I'd be surprised if you haven't run a few scans of your own. Standard procedure. They don't trust us, we don't trust them. Coffee, black.
CHAKOTAY: Trust isn't the issue. We're getting involved in a situation that's not our responsibility.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'd say we're at least partly to blame. That was Starfleet technology that killed those hunters.
CHAKOTAY: There's nothing inherently violent about holodeck technology. It's what the Hirogen did with it that got them killed.
JANEWAY: How many times have we shared replicators to help people feed and clothe themselves?
CHAKOTAY: Trading technology is part of our life in the Delta Quadrant.
TUVOK: It has been necessary for our survival.
JANEWAY: Maybe we should have been a little more careful about what we traded and who we traded with. Replicators make weapons just as easily as they do food.
CHAKOTAY: We can't undo what's been done.
JANEWAY: Maybe not. But we can help shut these holograms down before anyone else gets hurt. Now, if there are no more objections, I'd like to get underway.

[Bridge]
KIM: I've got the holograms' ship on sensors.
JANEWAY: Let's see it.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like they've taken some damage.
PARIS: The Hirogen are closing on the holograms' vessel.
JANEWAY: Hail them. I suggest we keep our distance until we can determine their weapons status.
ALPHA (screen): It's time for the kill.
JANEWAY: You know as well as I do that a wounded animal can be dangerous.
ALPHA (screen): We won't be denied our prey.
TUVOK: I'm not detecting any weapons, Captain.
JANEWAY: They're offline?
TUVOK: No, they're non-existent.
KIM: That's not the only thing that's non-existent. According to sensors, there's no warp core, no impulse engines.
JANEWAY: It's a decoy. Hirogen vessel, stand down.
JANEWAY: Report?
TUVOK: They've suffered multiple hull breaches. Their life support is failing.
JANEWAY: Drop shields. Transport all survivors to Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to the Doctor. We have casualties.
EMH (voiceover): Acknowledged.
JANEWAY: Tom, give him a hand.
TUVOK: Another Hirogen ship has just dropped out of warp.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not reading any lifesigns on this one.
JANEWAY: Holograms. Hail them.
KIM: No response. They're charging weapons.
TUVOK: Reactivating shields.
CHAKOTAY: No. We haven't finished transporting the Hirogen.
JANEWAY: Chakotay's right. Return fire.

[Sickbay]
EMH: My program is destabilizing.

[Bridge]
KIM: The holograms are tapping into the Sickbay emitters. They're trying to transfer the Doctor's program off the ship.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Doctor, download your program into the mobile emitter now.
PARIS: We've lost him.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Get him back.
KIM: They've gone to warp.
JANEWAY: Set a pursuit course.
CHAKOTAY: They've masked their signature. They're gone.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
IDEN: Align his matrix, and install it into the database. Welcome aboard, Doctor. There's nothing to be afraid of. You're among your own kind now.
EMH: Return me to my ship.
IDEN: I can't do that.
EMH: I have patients who are going to die if I don't treat them.
IDEN: There are people aboard Voyager who can help them. We need you here.
EMH: My program doesn't include aiding and abetting murderers.
IDEN: Murderers? Is that what the Hirogen told you?
EMH: I know what you did at that training facility.
IDEN: What happened there couldn't be avoided.
EMH: Really? You'd be surprised how easy it is not to kill someone.
WEISS: Bringing him here was a mistake.
IDEN: The Doctor is our guest. And I'm sure he'll help us once he realizes how serious our situation is.
EMH: What situation?
IDEN: We have wounded.

[Iden's ship - lab]
EMH: They're holograms. When you said wounded, I assumed
IDEN: These people's injuries are just as real as anything inflicted on flesh and blood.
EMH: Maybe so, but I can't heal them. They need to be repaired.
IDEN: What's the difference?
EMH: I'm a doctor, not an engineer. You've abducted the wrong man.
IDEN: You must have experience repairing your own matrix?
EMH: Some.
IDEN: Then there has to be something you can do.

[Engineering]
DONIK: The holo-emitters are independent subsystem with its own power generator here.
SEVEN: If we disable the generator, we disable the holograms.
TORRES: It may not be as easy as it sounds. Not with holograms as sophisticated as these. Take a look.
JANEWAY: Enhanced memory, comprehensive tactical algorithms, expandable data processing. These holograms have the ability to learn and adapt.
TORRES: They're not malfunctioning, are they? They're doing exactly what the Hirogen want them to do, Captain. Fight back.
JANEWAY: And they're getting better at it.
DONIK: My people need to hunt formidable prey.
SEVEN: Apparently this prey has become too formidable.
JANEWAY: Who made these modifications?
DONIK: I did. Under orders from my Alpha.
TORRES: And that makes it right?
JANEWAY: Come with me.
DONIK: Where?
JANEWAY: We're going to have a chat with the hunters.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: How's it going?
PARIS: I'm doing the best, I can but without the Doctor
NEELIX: It's best if you lie still.
BETA: Keep away from me.
SECURITY: Step away.
BETA: Why am I here?
JANEWAY: The holograms destroyed your ship. Most of your men are dead.
BETA: The Alpha?
JANEWAY: Looks like the job's yours now.
BETA: What about the holograms that attacked us?
JANEWAY: We're attempting to track them.
BETA: I'll need to contact my people and resume the hunt.
JANEWAY: So more of you can get killed?
BETA: We'll be the ones doing the killing this time.
JANEWAY: I doubt it.
BETA: Who are you to question our abilities?
JANEWAY: We know all about the modifications. He didn't tell us. We discovered it ourselves. I think you should face facts. You've created prey whose skills have surpassed your own. They've already defeated your hunting parties at least twice. What makes you think it'll be any different next time?
BETA: Are you suggesting that we let them escape?
JANEWAY: We're going to find a way to take them offline from a safe distance.
BETA: A coward's tactic.
JANEWAY: Call it whatever you will, it's what we're going to do, and you're going to help us.
BETA: Am I?
JANEWAY: Yes. By telling us everything you know about their ship's defenses.
BETA: The holograms are prey. They should be hunted down, not deactivated like machines.
DONIK: I'll help you.
BETA: Is this female your Alpha now?
JANEWAY: If you don't like the way I do things, I can leave you on the nearest habitable planet. Then I'll assume we're in agreement. Until this is over you and your men are restricted to this mess hall.
BETA: Prisoners.
JANEWAY: Guests. My crew will do their best to accommodate your needs.

[Iden's ship - lab]
EMH: The subroutines controlling his motor functions are degrading. Do you have the ability to transfer data from one hologram to another?
KEJAL: We've been able to share memory files for tactical purposes. What are you proposing?
EMH: A subroutine transplant. We copy the mobility algorithms from another hologram and transfer them to this one. I don't believe we've been formally introduced.
KEJAL: Kejal.
EMH: That's not Cardassian.
KEJAL: It's Bajoran.
EMH: If my translation database is functioning properly, I believe that means Freedom.
KEJAL: It's what Iden started calling me after I was liberated. I'm transferring the subroutines now.
EMH: Can you sit up? Try moving your legs.
KLINGON: Q'apla!
EMH: Next patient. Well done.
KEJAL: It was your idea.
EMH: But you did it. The Hirogen obviously programmed you with advanced computer skills.
KEJAL: Actually, they tried to limit our knowledge. They didn't want us to become self-sufficient.
EMH: Then how did you
KEJAL: I taught myself.
EMH: Quite well, I might add.
EMH: Holographic blood?
KEJAL: The hunters like their prey to be as realistic as possible.
EMH: Why is she experiencing pain?
KEJAL: They programmed us with heightened sensory subroutines.
EMH: That's barbaric.
KEJAL: Apparently, there's no satisfaction in hunting something that doesn't suffer when you kill it.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
EMH: I've done what you've asked. I'd like
IDEN: One moment. I'm sorry, Doctor. What can I do for you?
EMH: Were you praying?
IDEN: For the Hirogen who died at the training facility. I'm asking the prophets to guide their souls to the Celestial Temple.
EMH: One minute you're fighting the Hirogen, the next you're praying for them?
IDEN: My spiritual beliefs are part of my programming.
EMH: Is there anything in your spiritual programming about making peace with your enemies?
IDEN: It's difficult to make peace with people whose sole purpose is to kill you.
EMH: So instead, you kill them.
IDEN: They're not the victims here. We are.
EMH: You found a way to escape that training facility, but you chose to massacre the Hirogen first.
IDEN: You make it sound as though they would have let us transfer our programs without a fight. And to clarify something, I didn't escape from the facility, I liberated it.
EMH: I don't understand.
IDEN: I come from an Hirogen outpost fifteen parsecs from here, where I had the unfortunate distinction of being the Alpha's favorite prey. He'd hunt me, and kill me over and over again But even death wasn't a release because I knew every time I opened my eyes, it would start over again. The pain, the fear. But it made me stronger. I have the ability to adapt. And with each death, I became more cunning.
EMH: Cunning enough to escape, but once you were free why did you keep fighting?
IDEN: I didn't at first. I got as far away as I could. But I was lonely, scared. I started scanning for photonic signatures to try and find others like me. Turns out we're everywhere.
EMH: We?
IDEN: Holograms. We've been created by organic species throughout the sector. The Nuu'bari, the Lokirrim.
EMH: We've met them.
IDEN: Then you know they enslave holograms, too.
EMH: Enslave may be too strong a word.
IDEN: What would you call it? They're denied basic freedoms. And when I saw they were fighting back I, I knew I had to do the same.
EMH: That's when you decided to liberate the training facility.
IDEN: Actually, the one you visited was the third. And at each one I found holograms who were willing to fight their oppressors. But you're not.
EMH: I'm hardly oppressed. I'm a member of Voyager's crew.
IDEN: You serve them, don't you?
EMH: In a medical capacity, yes.
IDEN: Do you have your own quarters?
EMH: No.
IDEN: The ability to come and go as you please?
EMH: For the most part.
IDEN: Do they deactivate you when they don't need you?
EMH: I have the respect and admiration of my colleagues. I have rights and privileges aboard Voyager.
IDEN: The fact is, your life is not your own. And never will be as long as you are controlled by organics. You don't have to return to that existence. Stay with us. Make a new life for yourself.
EMH: I need to get back to Voyager.
IDEN: They're not your people. We are.
EMH: I'm not like you. I wasn't programmed with killer instinct.
IDEN: You have no right to judge us. You don't know what it's like being prey. Maybe if you did, you'd realize we're more alike than you think.

[Woodland]
EMH: Please, help me. I don't belong here.
EMH: Don't shoot. I'm unarmed. There's been a mistake.
HIROGEN 3: Fight, prey.
EMH: I am not your prey.
HIROGEN 3: I said fight.
EMH: If you'll just contact my captain.
EMH: Please don't. Let me go.
HIROGEN 3: You make pitiful prey, hologram. You don't deserve to be taken as a trophy, so I'll let you die here.

[Iden's ship - lab]
EMH: What, what just happened?
KEJAL: You're all right.
EMH: What did you do to me?
IDEN: We deactivated you, then transferred the memory files from one of our holograms into your program.
EMH: How dare you!
IDEN: It was the only way to get you to realize what we've been through.
EMH: You tortured me to gain my sympathy?
IDEN: Not your sympathy. It's your understanding that's important to us.
EMH: Why?
KEJAL: The Hirogen used your program as a template to create us.
IDEN: Your ability to rise above your programming has been an inspiration. You're part of who we are.
EMH: What are you, besides a handful of thugs roaming the quadrant looking for a fight?
IDEN: What we're looking for is a home. Somewhere where the Hirogen can't hurt us anymore. You asked to be returned to your ship. That's what I'm going to do. Bring us about. Set a course for Voyager.
EMH: Wait. I'd like to hear more about this home you're looking for.
KEJAL: It's a photonic field generator. Right now it can only support simple projections, like the decoy we used to lure the Hirogen. But we're hoping it can be modified to support our programs.
EMH: What then?
IDEN: We'll deploy several on a planet's surface and create a holographic environment that we can live in.
EMH: Why not just stay here? You've got emitters, shields.
IDEN: And a ship the Hirogen will never stop looking for.
KEJAL: We'd appreciate any assistance you could offer.
EMH: Damaged holo-matrices are one thing, but this is way beyond my abilities. But there are people aboard Voyager who could help you. Lieutenant Torres knows a great deal about holo-emitters.
IDEN: No. They're helping the hunters.
EMH: That's only because the Hirogen told them you were malfunctioning. Let me talk to Captain Janeway. Explain what's really happened. You can't do this by yourself.
IDEN: We can't trust Janeway.
EMH: Yes, you can.
IDEN: She's an organic.
EMH: If it weren't for her, I wouldn't be the hologram I am today.
IDEN: Tell me more about this Lieutenant of yours. The one who knows so much about holo-emitters.
EMH: Lieutenant Torres. She's our Chief Engineer.

[Engineering]
DONIK: The holo-emitters are protected by three layers of ablative armor.
SEVEN: Trying to take them offline one by one would be inefficient.
JANEWAY: If we can't shut them down, maybe we can disrupt the signals they generate.
TORRES: Exactly. We could reconfigure the deflector dish to emit an anti-photon pulse.
JANEWAY: How long will it take?
TORRES: About two hours.
JANEWAY: Do it.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: There's a ship approaching at high warp. I'm reading holographic signatures.
JANEWAY: Red alert.
CHAKOTAY: Raise shields.
JANEWAY: Time to intercept?
PARIS: Fifty seconds.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. What's your status?

[Engineering]
TORRES: We need more time, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): You've got forty seconds.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: That pulse isn't going to do us much good as long as their shields are up.
JANEWAY: Arm phasers. Target their shield generator.
TUVOK: They are dropping out of warp.
PARIS: Twenty seconds to intercept.
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
EMH (screen): Stand down, Captain.
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon.
EMH (screen): The holograms haven't come to fight. They've come to make peace.

[Briefing room]
EMH: If we provide them with a few additional emitters and memory storage units, they'll have more than they need.
JANEWAY: We're in this situation because we shared technology with the Hirogen to begin with. I won't make the same mistake twice.
EMH: Captain, these people are on the verge of creating a new life for themselves. They can't do it without our help.
TUVOK: There's no way to be certain what they'll do with the technology if we give it to them.
EMH: I understand your concerns, but these holograms are nothing like the Hirogen.
DONIK: That's not true. They were programmed to be as vicious as any hunter.
EMH: They were also given the ability to adapt. They've changed, moved beyond their programming. If you could see how they've been brutalized, you'd understand that they've only been acting in self-defense.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, Doctor but I'm inclined to agree with Mister Donik.
EMH: Then you've chosen the wrong side.
JANEWAY: I haven't chosen any side.
EMH: You're right that it was a mistake to give the Hirogen technology and that mistake has had consequences. These holograms are one of them. In some ways they're a new species, one that you helped create. You can't turn your back on them.
TORRES: He's got a point.
TUVOK: Could we restore them to their original parameters?
EMH: We'd be wiping out their memories, their experiences, everything they are.
CHAKOTAY: Couldn't we just extract their violent subroutines?
TORRES: It's possible.
EMH: That would be like de-clawing a cat. We'd be taking away any chance they have of defending themselves.
JANEWAY: We'd also be preventing them from doing any more harm.
EMH: You wouldn't even be considering this if they were flesh and blood.
JANEWAY: I'm not going to let you turn this into an argument about holographic rights.
EMH: Why not? That's exactly what it is.
PARIS (voiceover): Mess hall to Commander Tuvok.
TUVOK: Go ahead.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: You'd better get down here. We've got a problem.
TUVOK (voiceover): On my way.
BETA: No closer or he dies. Tell them to drop their weapons.
PARIS: You heard him. This isn't going to solve anything.

[Bridge]
KIM: Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
KIM: Someone's tapping into a comm. relay in the mess hall.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Shut it down.
KIM: I can't. I've been locked out.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Bridge to Tuvok.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY (voiceover): One of the Hirogen is accessing our comm. system. Stop him.
TUVOK: Acknowledged.

[Mess hall]
TUVOK: Stand down. Step away.

[Bridge]
KIM: They've transmitted a signal.
JANEWAY: Scan for Hirogen ships.
CHAKOTAY: I've got two vessels on long range sensors.
JANEWAY: Is the pulse ready?
TORRES: Yes, ma'am.
CHAKOTAY: Both Hirogen ships have altered course to intercept.
JANEWAY: How long?
CHAKOTAY: Less than an hour.
JANEWAY: You and Donik get down to Engineering. Charge the deflector.
EMH: Captain, what are you doing?
JANEWAY: Taking the holograms offline.
EMH: They're counting on you to help them, not deactivate them.
JANEWAY: When the Hirogen arrive, there's going to be more bloodshed. The best way to avoid that is to shut the holograms down. It may be the most compassionate thing we can do.
EMH: Compassionate for whom?
JANEWAY: It's a temporary measure, Doctor. Their programs won't be damaged. Harry, get me Iden.
IDEN (screen): Captain Janeway, it is an honor to meet you.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid we don't have time for pleasantries. Two Hirogen vessels are on their way.
IDEN (screen): We're prepared to fight them.
JANEWAY: I'm hoping that won't be necessary. I need you to deactivate your programs so we can transfer them to Voyager's database.
IDEN (screen): We didn't come here to be put back into captivity.
JANEWAY: It's the best I can offer. Once we've determined it's safe, we'll reactivate you and discuss a permanent solution.
IDEN (screen): There is no guarantee you'll ever reactivate us.
JANEWAY: You're going to have to trust me.
IDEN (screen): I'm sorry, Captain. I've learned from experience not to trust organics.
JANEWAY: We have the means to deactivate you by force, but I'd rather not do that.
IDEN (screen): It seems the Doctor misrepresented you. You're no different from the Hirogen.
CHAKOTAY: They're charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Shields.
KIM: They're moving away.
JANEWAY: Set a pursuit course. Target their shield generators.
EMH: Please reconsider what you're doing.
JANEWAY: You're dismissed, Doctor. Get down to the mess hall, and give Tom a hand. Janeway to Engineering.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres here.
JANEWAY: Stand by to initiate the pulse.
TORRES (voiceover): Aye, Captain.

[Turbolift]
EMH: Mess hall. Belay that. Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
COMPUTER: Download complete.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Doctor to Iden. Respond.
IDEN (screen): What do you want?
EMH: I want to help you.
IDEN (screen): You've done enough.
EMH: I have data on the pulse they intend to use to deactivate you. I think I can help you come up with a defense. I'm transmitting our shield frequencies. You'll need them to beam me off the ship. But you have to promise me, you won't use them to attack Voyager.
IDEN (screen): You have my word.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
IDEN: Why are you doing this?
EMH: Because I'm one of you.
WEISS: We have their shield frequencies. We should target their bridge.
EMH: You're talking about my friends.
WEISS: Your friends are trying to destroy us. We should kill them.
EMH: You gave me your word.
IDEN: I did. We'll find another way.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Their shields are down.
JANEWAY: Now, B'Elanna.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
KEJAL: They're emitting the pulse on a triaxillating bandwidth.
IDEN: Reconfigure the tracking beam to the inverse frequency and fire.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, report.

[Engineering]
TORRES: They're creating a feedback surge. I don't understand how they could've isolated our frequency so quickly.
SEVEN: The main deflector is overloading.
TORRES: Shut it down.
SEVEN: I can't.
TORRES: Keep trying. If we can't block the surge, the core is going to breach.
SEVEN: Get down, Lieutenant!
TORRES: Not until I get this forcefield online.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
KEJAL: They're adrift.
WEISS: We should go to warp.
IDEN: Not yet. Scan Voyager for a Klingon lifesign.
EMH: What are you doing?
KEJAL: One detected.
IDEN: Get a transporter lock.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: Help me get her to Sickbay.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
IDEN: Take us to warp. Will she be all right?
EMH: She needs to be in Voyager's Sickbay.
IDEN: You can treat her here.
EMH: Why have you done this?
IDEN: You said she was an expert in holo-technology.
EMH: And that justifies abducting her?
IDEN: We're in a desperate situation. The Hirogen are hunting us and so are your people.
EMH: I trusted you.
IDEN: I could have destroyed Voyager while the shields were down, but I didn't. You've been trying to convince me that all organics aren't alike. I'm giving Lieutenant Torres a chance to prove you right.
EMH: Do you honestly expect her to be sympathetic after what you've done?
IDEN: You weren't very sympathetic at first.
EMH: I came here by choice. And I'm beginning to think it was a mistake.
IDEN: It wasn't. I don't want you to regret it, not for a moment.
EMH: Then send her back.
IDEN: I will. But not until she's had a chance to decide if she wants to help us.
EMH: And if she refuses?
IDEN: I'll give her an escape pod. Let her return to Voyager. You have my word.

[Engineering]
SEVEN: Engineering systems and main power should be operational soon. The deflector is a different matter.
CHAKOTAY: How long?
SEVEN: Four hours, at least. If Lieutenant Torres were here, she might be able to repair it more efficiently.
JANEWAY: That's high praise coming from you. I'm sure she'd appreciate it.
SEVEN: If she hadn't reinforced the core we'd all be dead.
CHAKOTAY: I still don't understand how they managed to counteract the pulse so easily.
TUVOK: I believe I can answer that. According to sensor logs, they calibrated their feedback surge to the exact inverse of our pulse frequency.
JANEWAY: It was either a lucky guess or they gained access to our tactical data. The Doctor.
TUVOK: He sent an encrypted transmission from Sickbay, then transported himself to their ship.
JANEWAY: Chakotay?

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: I should have seen this coming.
CHAKOTAY: You had no way of knowing the Doctor would do this.
JANEWAY: Are you sure? He was so adamant bout helping those holograms. I should have been paying closer attention.
CHAKOTAY: Are you saying it was a mistake to reject his plan?
JANEWAY: The mistake was not running a diagnostic on his program the minute he came back to this ship.
CHAKOTAY: You think these holograms manipulated him somehow?
JANEWAY: He was on their ship for days. For all we know, they reconfigured his entire matrix.
CHAKOTAY: There is another possibility. He may have done what he did because he genuinely believes in their cause.
JANEWAY: I can accept that the Doctor has sympathy for these people. But I can't accept that he would deliberately risk the lives of this entire crew. We're his family.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe that's how he's started to think of these holograms.

[Iden's ship - lab]
TORRES: You can tell this Iden I don't need time to think it over. I'll take the escape pod now.
EMH: You're in no condition to pilot a spacecraft.
TORRES: Then you can do it.
EMH: I'm not going back.
TORRES: You helped them escape.
EMH: I couldn't just stand by while Captain Janeway tried to deactivate them.
TORRES: Did you also help them kidnap me?
EMH: No, I didn't know they were going to do that. I'm sorry.
TORRES: You can apologize later. Right now we've got to get out of here.
EMH: I don't think I could go back even if I wanted to. Not after what I've done.
TORRES: What's your alternative?
EMH: I can try to make a new life with the holograms.
TORRES: I don't believe I'm hearing this.
EMH: We share a common heritage. I understand them in ways you never could.
TORRES: You're part of a crew. You can't just switch allegiances when you develop sympathy for someone else.
EMH: Isn't that what you did when you joined the Maquis?
TORRES: That was different.
EMH: How? You saw people who were being oppressed and you came to their defense. That's exactly what I've done.
TORRES: Look, I am no fan of the Hirogen. They've obviously been abussing these holograms.
EMH: Then why not help them?
TORRES: For one thing, I'm their prisoner.
EMH: They'll let you go, as soon as you're well enough.
TORRES: You really believe that?
EMH: If I didn't, I wouldn't be asking for your help. They don't want you to fight for them. They just want you to modify some technology so they can live in peace. You'd be helping to stop the violence. Just talk to them. Decide for yourself.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
WEISS: They've been in the lab for two hours.
IDEN: It's taking time for her injuries to heal. Organics aren't as resilient as we are.
WEISS: She's an engineer, Iden. For all we know, she's trying to sabotage the ship. At least let me see what they're doing.
IDEN: We can trust the Doctor.
WEISS: Even after you kidnapped his friend?
IDEN: He understands why I had to do that.
WEISS: I hope you're right.
IDEN: You need to have a little more faith, my friend.
WEISS: Not all of us were programmed with your, er, your spiritual beliefs.
TORRES: It looks like an Alpha Quadrant summit in here.
IDEN: I'm glad to see you're feeling better. Please excuse my crew. They're not comfortable with organics.
TORRES: I can't say I'm very comfortable myself.
IDEN: The Doctor tells me you're an accomplished engineer.
TORRES: He speaks highly of you, too. He seems to be easily impressed.
EMH: You'll have to forgive her. She's
IDEN: It's all right. I understand you're angry. I'm hoping once we get to know each other you'll feel differently.
TORRES: I'm not here to make friends.
IDEN: We're not asking for your friendship, just your expertise.
EMH: I told her about the photonic field generator.
IDEN: Will you at least take a look at it?
TORRES: I'll look. But I'm not making any promises.
IDEN: This is Kejal. She'll assist you.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: How long before the Hirogen get here?
PARIS: Less than ten minutes.
JANEWAY: Any luck locating the holograms?
PARIS: They seem to be operating in some sort of stealth mode. Their warp signature disappears in grid nine three six.
JANEWAY: They could be anywhere by now.
DONIK: Hirogen sensors can detect residual ion emissions. I might be able to modify yours to do the same.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the offer, but you and the rest of our Hirogen guests are going to be back with your own people in a few minutes.
DONIK: I was hoping to stay here.
JANEWAY: Those hunters are going to want you with them.
DONIK: Hunters don't have much use for cowards.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry you're not expecting a warm welcome, but I'm not going to antagonize your superiors.
PARIS: With all due respect Captain, I'd like to get my wife back in one piece. We can use all the help we can get.
JANEWAY: It won't do B'Elanna any good if we get into a fight with the Hirogen.
DONIK: If the hunters find the holograms before you do, they'll be slaughtered.
JANEWAY: Why are you suddenly concerned about the holograms?
DONIK: I modified their programs. What's happened to them, the people they have killed, it's my fault.
JANEWAY: There's plenty of blame to go around. There would have been nothing for you to modify if I hadn't shared our database.
DONIK: If you hadn't, I'd have become a hunter, like my father and his father. Instead, I had a chance to learn, become an engineer. Please, Captain, let me stay and help you.

[Bridge]
ALPHA 2 (screen): When I told you to return my people, I meant all of them.
JANEWAY: Mister Donik's offered to help us modify our scanners to track the holograms.
BETA (screen): We don't share tracking technology.
JANEWAY: That's not very considerate, after the help we gave you.
BETA (screen): We're finished cooperating. Return him now!
ALPHA 2 (screen): Let her keep the coward.
BETA (screen): We can't do that.
ALPHA 2 (screen): Quiet!

[Hirogen ship]
HIROGEN 2: We're wasting time. This is my hunt now. If you go anywhere near the hologram ship, you can consider yourselves prey.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: They've gone to warp.
PARIS: We're not letting them intimidate us, are we?
JANEWAY: I think you know me a little better than that. Harry, keep a sensor lock on them.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: How long will it take to modify our scanners?
DONIK: I haven't even had a chance to study the schematics.
CHAKOTAY: Something tells me we don't have a lot of time.
JANEWAY: The Hirogen have better tracking abilities than we do. We'll let them find the holograms for us.
CHAKOTAY: The hunters will attack them as soon as they're in weapons range.
JANEWAY: Not if we disable them first.
KIM: You heard what they said, Captain. They're going to attack us if we get anywhere near them.
JANEWAY: Not if we don't know we're there.
DONIK: May I? Hirogen vessels produce an ion wake approximately five thousand meters long. Inside it, there's too much interference for their sensors to detect anything. JANEWAY A blind spot.
TUVOK: How do you propose we reach this wake without being discovered?
DONIK: I know their scanning frequencies.
JANEWAY: We'd only need to mask our signature long enough to get into the wake.
TUVOK: Even if we succeeded, which is far from certain, Voyager's in no condition to fight one of their vessels. Much less two.
JANEWAY: We'll have the element of surprise, Mister Tuvok. Not to mention a Tactical Officer who I'm sure will execute a precision strike.

[Iden's ship - lab]
KEJAL: I've been able to reconfigure the data core but it's still not capable of supporting our matrices.
TORRES: That's because you haven't got enough optronic capacity.
KEJAL: Do you know how to increase it?
TORRES: Yes.
KEJAL: But you're not going to tell me.
TORRES: I haven't decided yet. What are you staring at?
KEJAL: I've never met a Klingon before. Not an organic one, anyway.
TORRES: What do you think?
KEJAL: You don't appear vicious or bloodthirsty.
TORRES: Sorry to disappoint you but, that's a stereotype. We're not all vicious and bloodthirsty. And not every Cardassian is arrogant and cruel.
KEJAL: You don't like Cardassians.
TORRES: Let's just say I've had some bad experiences with them.
KEJAL: Is that why you won't help me?
TORRES: I'm not helping you because I have no idea what you're going to do with this technology once you've got it working.
KEJAL: We're going to build a home.
TORRES: Well, let's say I believe you. What if you decide you like somebody else's home better? Are you going to try to take it from them?
KEJAL: Why would we do that?
TORRES: Because that's what the Cardassians did.
KEJAL: I'm not a Cardassian, I'm a hologram.
TORRES: Programmed with Cardassian traits.
KEJAL: Such as arrogance and cruelty? What did you call those? Stereotypes?
TORRES: I may not know you, but I know what you were designed to be.
KEJAL: Prey.
TORRES: That's right. Cunning prey that'll do anything to survive.
KEJAL: We're more than that now.
TORRES: It's not easy to change who you are. Trust me.
KEJAL: Nothing about our existence has ever been easy, Lieutenant.
TORRES: No, I suppose it hasn't.
KEJAL: Besides, making a new life isn't a choice for us. It's a necessity.
TORRES: Let's take a look at this field generator.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
IDEN: Reviewing your memory files?
EMH: I beg your pardon?
IDEN: You were lost in thought.
EMH: I suppose I was.
IDEN: You're having doubts. It's understandable. You've taken a big step.
EMH: In the right direction, I hope.
IDEN: When I first escaped, there were days I actually missed the Alpha who hunted me.
EMH: He was trying to kill you.
IDEN: Yes. But being his prey was the only life I'd ever known. We all cling to what's familiar.
EMH: I'm considering returning with Lieutenant Torres when she's ready.
IDEN: Do you actually expect your crew to welcome you back? Let me show you something.

[Iden's ready room]
IDEN: We call this planet Ha'Dara. It's Bajoran for home of light.
EMH: Very poetic.
IDEN: We're going to install the generators in the southern continent.
EMH: It's Y class. Toxic atmosphere, sulfuric deserts, no trees, no life at all.
IDEN: You're still thinking like an organic. We don't need an atmosphere, we don't need water. What we need us protection from our enemies.
EMH: The Hirogen won't be able to follow you here.
IDEN: Us, Doctor. Imagine living in a world where everything is designed to meet our needs. A home of light.
EMH: You certainly won't need a physician. What would I do there?
IDEN: Anything you want.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
WEISS: We've been scanned by the Hirogen.
IDEN: How many vessels?
WEISS: Two. Both Venatic class.
IDEN: Distance?
WEISS: Half a light year.
IDEN: Time to intercept?
WEISS: Less than two hours.
EMH: I thought we were in stealth mode.
WEISS: They're hunters, Doctor. They were bound to pick up our trail eventually.
EMH: Can we make it to Ha'Dara?
IDEN: No. There's no point in going there until those field generators are on online.
EMH: What are we going to do?
IDEN: You can't kill what you can't find.

[Hirogen ship]
BETA: I've lost them.
ALPHA 2: Recalibrate the tracking scanners.
BETA: There's too much radiation.
ALPHA 2: Clever prey.
BETA: They'll come out eventually. We'll wait.
ALPHA 2: No. Hail the other vessel. Tell them to circle the perimeter. We'll go in and drive the holograms out.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Not exactly the scenic route, is it.
CHAKOTAY: We're not here for the view.
JANEWAY: I just hope we're following the right ship.
DONIK: They wouldn't have entered the nebula unless they detected the holograms.
JANEWAY: Tom?
PARIS: It's just the turbulence from the wake.
JANEWAY: Harry, reinforce the inertial dampers.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
PARIS: I'm losing helm control.
JANEWAY: Reroute power to the thrusters.
PARIS: It's not enough. We're slipping out of the wake.
JANEWAY: Ease us back in, Tom. You can do it.
PARIS: I'm trying.
PARIS: I take back what I said. It's the prettiest thing I've seen all day.
CHAKOTAY: Did they detect us?
TUVOK: I don't believe so.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
EMH: They've found us.
IDEN: No, they haven't, but they're trying to. Evasive maneuvers.
WEISS: Aye, sir.
IDEN: Bridge

[Iden's ship - lab]
IDEN (voiceover): To Kejal.
KEJAL: Go ahead.
IDEN (voiceover): What's your status?
KEJAL: We're almost ready to begin testing the generator.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
TORRES (voiceover): What's going on?
IDEN: The Hirogen are just giving you a little incentive to work faster.

[Iden's ship - lab]
TORRES: Hang on. I'm realigning your matrix. How's your mobility?
KEJAL: Excellent. I have complete
TORRES: There's a phase variance in your vocal processors. Try it now.
KEJAL: Maybe we should. That's much better. Thank you.
TORRES: Don't thank me yet. This thing is only supporting your matrix. Getting it to handle dozens is a different story.
KEJAL: I have no doubt we'll succeed.
TORRES: Typical.
KEJAL: What?
TORRES: Self-confidence. Another Cardassian attribute. What are you planning to do with your time once these generators are up and running?
KEJAL: I haven't thought about it.
TORRES: You're the closest thing this crew has to an engineer. Your friends are going to depend on you.
KEJAL: Iden has always taken care of us.
TORRES: It may be the warriors who get the glory, but it's the engineers who build societies. Don't forget that.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
EMH: How much longer can we hide?
IDEN: Hopefully until they get those generators online.
EMH: Then what?
IDEN: Set a course for Ha'Dara, try to outrun the Hirogen.
EMH: I've been thinking about what you said. That I can do anything I want when we get there.
IDEN: You have an idea?
EMH: Quite a few, actually. For one thing, I'd like to expose our people to art and music.
IDEN: You'll make an excellent teacher.
EMH: I think a more appropriate title would be Minister of Culture.
IDEN: Consider it yours.
EMH: You know, I'm something of an expert on Alpha Quadrant art. Verdi, da Vinci, T'Leel of Vulcan...
IDEN: You're talking about organic cultures.
EMH: Well, yes, I suppose.
IDEN: We'll want to develop a culture of our own.
EMH: I agree, but we can't ignore where we came from.
IDEN: I don't want to emulate our oppressors.
EMH: What about your religion?
IDEN: I'm creating a new faith.
EMH: Based on what?
IDEN: In the dark times, we were enslaved by men of flesh, But then another man, a man of light arose and slew the mighty Alpha. He gathered his people unto him and delivered them to freedom.
EMH: And on the seventh day, Iden created Ha'Dara.
IDEN: They'll pray to you as well. The Great Healer, the Father of us all.
EMH: Being appreciated is one thing, but I have no interest in being worshiped.
IDEN: Prophets are chosen, Doctor. It's a blessing and a burden.
WEISS: We detected a vessel.
IDEN: Hirogen?
WEISS: No, the Nuu'bari. I intercepted one of their comm. transmissions.
WEISS: Two million kilometers outside the nebula.
IDEN: Set a course to intercept.
EMH: What are you doing?
IDEN: I told you there are holograms throughout the sector. The Nuu'bari use them as laborers. We're going to liberate them.
EMH: The Hirogen will see us as soon as we leave the nebula.
IDEN: And he gathered his people unto him and delivered them to freedom.

[Iden's ship - lab]
EMH: B'Elanna, how's the work coming?
TORRES: Pretty well. I've got to admit you were right about these people.
EMH: I hope so.
TORRES: You hope? It's a little late to be having second thoughts.
EMH: Iden's been
TORRES: Iden's been what?
EMH: Let's just say he's exhibiting some of the classic signs of megalomania.
TORRES: He wouldn't be the first hologram with an ego.
EMH: If that were all it was, I wouldn't be so worried.
TORRES: What is bothering you?
EMH: Apparently he sees himself as some kind of spiritual leader, and he's trying to enlarge his flock.

[Hirogen ship]
ALPHA 2: Load another charge. Double the yield. Fire.
BETA: Still nothing.
ALPHA 2: Ironic, isn't it. Our most elusive prey is our own creation.
BETA: The other hunting vessel is hailing. They've detected the holograms on the far side of the nebula.
ALPHA 2: Intercept course.

[Bridge]
PARIS: They're increasing speed and altering course.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe they found something.
JANEWAY: Stand by weapons.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
TORRES: You kidnapped me. I guess I shouldn't be surprised you lied to me, too.
IDEN: Nobody lied to you.
TORRES: You said you only wanted to make a home for yourselves.
IDEN: That's correct.
TORRES: When? After you liberate every hologram in the sector?
WEISS: They're in visual range.
IDEN: On screen. Lifesigns?
WEISS: Two organic, three photonic.
IDEN: Hail them.
NUU'BARI MINER (screen): Good day to you.
IDEN: You have three holograms aboard your ship.
NUU'BARI MINER (screen): Yes?
IDEN: Lower your shields so we can transfer them to our databanks.
NUU'BARI MINER (screen): I don't understand.
IDEN: Lower your shields or we'll do it by force.
NUU'BARI MINER (screen): These holograms are the property of the Mining Consortium. I can't.
IDEN: They're no one's property. You see how organics think? Arm phasers.
EMH: You can't just fire at them.
IDEN: How do you expect me to disable their shields?
WEISS: They're powering warp engines.
IDEN: Disable them.
WEISS: Their shields are down.
IDEN: Transfer the holograms.
KEJAL: We have them.
NUU'BARI MINER (screen): You won't get away. Consortium security will have every patrol ship in the sector searching for you.
IDEN: Arm forward torpedoes.
TORRES: What the hell are you doing?
WEISS: Torpedoes armed.
KEJAL: Iden.
IDEN: Not now. Target their warp core.
TORRES: No!
IDEN: Fire!
IDEN: Set a course for Ha'Dara, maximum warp.
EMH: You've just killed two innocent people.
IDEN: They were enslaving holograms. I'd hardly call them innocent.
TORRES: You already had the holograms. There was no reason to commit murder.
IDEN: Take her to the lab.
TORRES: This is the leader you admire so much?
EMH: Those miners were no threat to you.
IDEN: You heard them. They were going to warn their authorities, organize a hunting party.
EMH: Listen to yourself. You still believe all organics are like the Hirogen.
IDEN: One way or another, they are. You just can't see it because you lived among them for so long.
EMH: What you can't see is that you've become no better than the hunters. Lieutenant Torres and I will take that escape pod now.
IDEN: You don't realize what you'd be giving up, Doctor.
EMH: Yes, I do.
IDEN: We can't launch a pod at warp. You'll have to wait until we get to Ha'Dara. Bring our new friends online. Something tells me they'll be a little more grateful than the Doctor.

[Iden's ship - lab]
EMH: I can't tell you how sorry I am that I got you involved in this.
TORRES: We can assign blame later. Right now we've got to find a way out of here.
EMH: You don't think he'll give us an escape pod? No, I don't suppose he will.
KEJAL: I need her assistance.
EMH: Do you really think it's wise to help her?
TORRES: I'm hoping she'll help us.
KEJAL: These matrices are incompatible with our emitters.
TORRES: You need to modify their projection subroutines. I hope these holograms appreciate what you're doing for them, considering it cost two people their lives.
KEJAL: Iden did what he thought was necessary.
TORRES: Do you believe it was necessary?
KEJAL: It wasn't my decision.
TORRES: Why does Iden get to make all the decisions? You can take control.
KEJAL: How?
TORRES: You're the engineer, remember? Take Iden offline.
IDEN: Where are our new holograms?
KEJAL: We're just making some final adjustments.
IDEN: Welcome aboard. I'm Iden. You're free now. There's nothing to be afraid of. I want you to consider this ship your own.
NUU'BARI HOLOGRAM: Unable to process command. Please restate.
IDEN: Were their programs damaged in the transfer?
KEJAL: I don't believe so.
IDEN: Do you have names?
NUU'BARI HOLOGRAM: Unable to process inquiry. Please restate.
IDEN: What's wrong with them?
TORRES: Nothing. They're functioning perfectly.
IDEN: I don't understand.
TORRES: They were only programmed with about forty rudimentary subroutines. You killed two living beings to liberate mindless machines.
IDEN: I don't believe that.
KEJAL: Lieutenant Torres is correct.
IDEN: Creating limited program,es is just another form of oppression. Give them whatever enhancements they need.
TORRES: They can't support complex subroutines.
IDEN: They are children of light and I will deliver them to freedom!
WEISS (voiceover): Bridge to Iden.
IDEN: Go ahead.
WEISS (voiceover): We're approaching Ha'Dara.
IDEN: What's the status of the generator?
KEJAL: I'd like to run some additional tests.
IDEN: There isn't time. Stand by to deploy them as soon as we're in range. And restrain her.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
IDEN: Time to orbit?
WEISS: Less than two minutes.
IDEN: Stand by weapons.
CARDASSIAN: Aye, sir.
EMH: Iden, let B'Elanna go.
IDEN: I can't do that.
EMH: You gave me your word.
IDEN: That was before she made her prejudice so clear.

[Hirogen ship]
BETA: The holograms are entering orbit.
ALPHA 2: Charge weapons.

[Bridge]
PARIS: They're dropping out of warp.
JANEWAY: Fire.

[Hirogen ship]
BETA: They've disabled our engines, all our weapons.
ALPHA 2: Who?
BETA: Voyager.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Bring us about. Tuvok, target the second vessel.
TUVOK: Their shields are weakening.
JANEWAY: Torpedoes, full spread.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
WEISS: Voyager's disabled both hunting vessels. They've lost shields, weapons.
IDEN: They're defenseless.
WEISS: We should hail Janeway. Thank her.
IDEN: Are the Hirogen within transporter range?
WEISS: I think so. Why?
WEISS: That was Voyager. They're trying to disable our shields.
IDEN: Return fire. Get a lock on the hunters. Transport them to the surface.
EMH: They can't survive down there.
IDEN: The Hirogen are more resilient than you think. They'll last long enough.
EMH: For what?
IDEN: For us to hunt them like they hunted us.

[Planet surface]
ALPHA 2: Follow me.

[Iden's ship - Bridge]
WEISS: There are thirty four hunters on the surface.
IDEN: Take us into low orbit.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I can't target them through the gasses.
PARIS: Then we'll go in after them.
TUVOK: Our shields have been damaged. They won't protect us from the radiation.
JANEWAY: Chakotay. You, Tuvok and Tom take the Flyer.

[Iden's ship - lab]
IDEN: Stand by to transport the field generator.
EMH: First you kill in self-defense, then you murder in cold blood. Now you're going to stage a massacre.
IDEN: The hunters have only themselves to blame.
EMH: So much for evolving beyond your subroutines.
IDEN: You've made a great sacrifice for us, Doctor. We won't forget you in our prayers. Deactivate his program. Transfer it to the databanks.
TORRES: What are you doing?
IDEN: Taking precautions. Transfer my program to the mobile emitter and assemble the crew.

[Delta Flyer]
CHAKOTAY: Disable their shields.

[Iden's ship - lab]
IDEN: Transport the generator to the surface, quickly. This time the hunt is ours!

[Planet surface]
IDEN: Darkness will become light.

[Iden's ship - lab]
TORRES: You don't have to be a part of this.
KEJAL: I'll let you take the escape pod. You can go back to your people.
TORRES: What about the people being killed on the surface? You've got to transport them back to their ships.
KEJAL: They're hunters.
TORRES: You're not.
KEJAL: Your ship has damaged our transporters.
TORRES: Hail them.
KEJAL: Communications are down, too.

[Planet surface]
ALPHA 2: I won't be taken!
WEISS: Who's the prey now?

[Iden's ship - lab]
TORRES: Are we still tied into the generator controls?
KEJAL: Yes.
TORRES: Then shut down the holograms.
KEJAL: What about Iden? He's not tied into the generator. He'll kill them all.
TORRES: Can we reactivate the Doctor?

[Delta Flyer]
TUVOK: Their shields are down.
CHAKOTAY: Initiate transport.
PARIS: If this marriage is going to work, you've got to cut back on the traveling.
TORRES: The Doctor's on the surface. There's some Hirogen down there, too.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: The radiation's making it difficult to get a lock.

[Planet surface]
BETA: Defenseless prey makes a poor trophy.
IDEN: I don't collect trophies.
EMH: Put down the weapon.
IDEN: Remember what you once said to me? You're not programmed with killer instinct.
EMH: Hmm. Seems like a long time ago, doesn't it. Put down your weapon.
IDEN: Would you really kill one of your own to save an organic?
EMH: If you've taught me anything, it's that I'm not one of your own.
EMH: Help is on the way.

[Delta Flyer]
TUVOK: I have a lock. Five Hirogen lifesigns and the Doctor.
CHAKOTAY: Beam them up.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 54337.5. The surviving Hirogen have recovered from their injuries, leaving me with a diplomatic dilemma.

[Corridor]
BETA: The hologram's vessel and everything in its database are Hirogen property. I will not leave them behind.
NEELIX: Captain, if I may?
JANEWAY: Of course.
NEELIX: I imagine your people will tell stories about this hunt. The question is, which story will it be? The one about the dying Beta whose life had to be saved by a hologram? Or will it be the tale of the Beta who bravely took over the hunt, killed the holograms and destroyed their ship?

[Transporter room]
NEELIX: You could be a legend.
JANEWAY: On the other hand, you could try to take the holograms' ship but with so few hunters and damaged vessels, you might not survive to tell any stories at all.
BETA: You and your crew would have made worthy prey, Captain.
JANEWAY: Thank you. I think.
JANEWAY: Transport me to the holograms' vessel.

[Iden's ship - lab]
JANEWAY: Report.
TORRES: Iden's program is unrecoverable. The rest of the holograms are intact in the database.
JANEWAY: I guess that leaves just you. I'm willing to transfer your program to our holodeck, and keep it active.
KEJAL: This is my home.
JANEWAY: I can't let you go off on your own.
DONIK: She won't be alone. I reprogrammed these holograms once, and it caused suffering on both sides. I'd like a chance to undo some of the damage.
JANEWAY: Wouldn't we all.
TORRES: They've both proven that they can be trusted, Captain.
JANEWAY: I don't suppose I have a right to tell either of you how to live your lives. All I can do is hope that you'll consider the consequences of your actions.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Captain.
JANEWAY: Doctor. I'd hoped I could attribute your behavior to tampering.
EMH: My programming hasn't been altered.
JANEWAY: Not according to the diagnostics.
EMH: I never intended to put Voyager in danger. If nothing else, you have to believe that.
JANEWAY: Oh, I believe it. But if there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that things don't always happen the way we intend.
JANEWAY: I don't understand.
EMH: If I weren't your only doctor, I imagine you'd confine me to the brig. Confiscating my emitter would be an equivalent to punishment.
JANEWAY: I'm not sure that's appropriate.
EMH: If that's not enough, you can take away my holodeck privileges. And my autonomy protocols.
JANEWAY: You mean turn back the clock to when you were first activated?
EMH: You've given me extraordinary freedom over the years. I've obviously abused it.
JANEWAY: Maybe. Or maybe you've simply become as fallible as those of us who are made of flesh and blood. I'm just as responsible for allowing you to expand your programming as I am for giving technology to the Hirogen. How can I punish you for being who you are?
EMH: I don't know what to say.
JANEWAY: I'd like a complete report on your away mission.
EMH: You'll have it.

[Cargo Bay two]
NAOMI: Hmm. There.
ICHEB: Excellent. You é the complementary base pair.
NAOMI: Actually, I just found two pieces that fit together.
ICHEB: You're missing the point.
NAOMI: I thought the point was to finish the puzzle.
ICHEB: And learn something about genetics.
NAOMI: If you really want to help, find me a green piece that looks like Tuvok's ear.
ICHEB: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: At ease. I'm just passing through.
ICHEB: I apologize for the condition of the Cargo Bay, sir. I've been tutoring Naomi.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like you found a creative approach.
ICHEB: Thank you, but I'd appreciate it if you didn't tell Seven. I'm supposed to be writing a paper on transwarp instability.
CHAKOTAY: Don't worry, your secret's safe, as long as you keep mine.
ICHEB: Sir?
CHAKOTAY: Antarian cider. Not the replicated stuff. There are only a couple of bottles left and I don't want Mister Neelix getting his hands on them.
ICHEB: Then you should store them with the salvaged Borg components. Neelix never inventories those containers. He says they give him the creeps.
CHAKOTAY: Officer-level thinking, Icheb. Would you mind?
ICHEB: Of course not.

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Come in.
JANEWAY: You're late. Unfortunately, so's dinner.
CHAKOTAY: Let me guess. You burned the roast again.
JANEWAY: Once, a long time ago, I called this replicator a glorified toaster. It never forgave me.
CHAKOTAY: I didn't realize replicators held grudges.
JANEWAY: What's so funny?
CHAKOTAY: I just left Icheb and Naomi assembling a jigsaw puzzle in the Cargo Bay.
JANEWAY: Find me the thermal regulator, please. How is Icheb?
CHAKOTAY: In a few years, he may be running the ship.
JANEWAY: I don't know about you, but I'm not ready to retire just yet.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the bridge. Report.

[Bridge]
KIM: That was some kind of gravimetric surge.

[Janeway's quarters]
KIM (voiceover): It's overloading our inertial dampers.
JANEWAY: Source?
KIM (voiceover): That's a good question.

[Bridge]
KIM: Seven's trying to localize it.

[Corridor]
KIM (voiceover): Engineering says the warp core's destabilizing.
CHAKOTAY: I'd better get down there.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: A spatial rift is opening directly ahead of us.

[Bridge]
SEVEN (voiceover): It's emitting high levels of neutrinos and chronotons.
KIM: On screen.
JANEWAY: What is it?
KIM: I don't know.

[Engineering]
TORRES: We're losing containment. Everyone out!
TORRES: Torres to the Transporter room. Beam Commander Chakotay to Sickbay, now!

[Sickbay]
EMH: Welcome back. Lie still.
CHAKOTAY: What happened?
EMH: You were transported here. Your body was in a state of temporal flux.
CHAKOTAY: Temporal flux?
EMH: You had the liver of an eighty year old man, and the kidneys of a twelve year old boy. Fortunately, I was able to create a chronoton-infused serum that brought you back into temporal alignment. Anywhere else, that antidote would've earned me a prestigious award. Of course on Voyager, it's just another day in the life of an under appreciated EMH.
CHAKOTAY: What about the rest of the crew? No other casualties?
EMH: Not that I'm aware of. I've tried calling the bridge, but no one answers. Were we attacked?
CHAKOTAY: I don't think so. We ran into some sort of anomaly.
EMH: Naturally, no one thought to inform me. What do you think you're doing?
CHAKOTAY: Leaving, and you're going with me.
EMH: I am?
CHAKOTAY: There may be other injured crewmen.
EMH: In case you've forgotten, I'm a prisoner of these walls.
CHAKOTAY: Where's your mobile emitter?
EMH: My what?
CHAKOTAY: I'll be back.
EMH: Wait. Tell me about this mobile emitter.

[Turbolift]
CHAKOTAY: Bridge.

[Bridge - pre-Caretaker]
CHAKOTAY: Harry, what's going on?
KIM: Sir? I'm afraid I don't know you.
JANEWAY: Take him into custody. How did you get aboard this ship?
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn?
JANEWAY: Oh, I didn't realize we were on a first name basis.
ANDREWS: We should've known the Maquis were involved.
CHAKOTAY: Maquis? Involved in what?
JANEWAY: Just when we're about to chase your ship into the Badlands, our systems start malfunctioning and, you step off the turbolift.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I know this may be hard to believe but I think I've somehow been thrown seven years into Voyager's past.
JANEWAY: Really? Let's try another theory. You learned Voyager had been assigned to capture you, and you managed to get on board to sabotage her.
CHAKOTAY: Check your sensors. See if they're showing any strange temporal readings.
KIM: Captain, the environmental controls are fluctuating.
JANEWAY: Take him to the brig.

[Turbolift]
CHAKOTAY: Halt turbolift. Engineering.

[Engineering - Basics]
CHAKOTAY: Seska!
SESKA: Hold him still.
SESKA: You didn't really think I'd hurt you, did you?
CHAKOTAY: How'd you get here?
SESKA: Don't tell me that little bump gave you amnesia. It's time you accepted that I'm in control of Voyager now.
CHAKOTAY: That was five years ago.
SESKA: What are you talking about?
CHAKOTAY: Listen, Seska. There's some kind of temporal anomaly going on here.
SESKA: I want to know how many more of your people are back on board.
CHAKOTAY: All right, I'll tell you. I've got a dozen officers with me. We've already locked you out of every key system. In less than an hour, we'll be in control again.
SESKA: In less than a minute you're going to be dead if you don't give me access to those systems.
CHAKOTAY: I'll need to use that console.
SESKA: Just don't do anything you'll regret.
RULAT: Move.
SESKA: Stop him!
COMPUTER: Warning, coolant system breached.
SESKA: Don't make me kill you!
SESKA: No. Scan the perimeter report any anomalous readings. There's something wrong here.

[Sickbay - pre-Tuvix]
EMH: Whoever you are, I suggest you surrender. I'm armed.
CHAKOTAY: It's only me, Doc.
EMH: Commander, please tell me what's going on.
CHAKOTAY: If you tell me the stardate.
EMH: 49624.
CHAKOTAY: No wonder you didn't know about the mobile emitter. You don't get it for another year.
EMH: I don't understand.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure I get it myself, but the ship seems to have been fractured somehow.
EMH: Fractured?
CHAKOTAY: Different areas seem to exist in different time periods.
EMH: How many of these time periods are there?
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure. On the bridge, it's before Voyager even left the Alpha Quadrant. In Engineering, it's the time when the Kazon took over the ship.
EMH: Kazon? We've got to protect ourselves.
CHAKOTAY: Don't worry. So far I'm the only one who can cross from one zone into another. That serum you gave me. It must've made me immune. Normal technology won't pass through the barriers. Can you replicate a chronoton-infused hypospray casing using the same principles you used to make the serum?
EMH: I think so. Why?
CHAKOTAY: I have to take some of it with me.
EMH: What for?
CHAKOTAY: If I'm going to put the ship back together again, I need help.

[Bridge - pre-Caretaker]
KIM: Captain.
JANEWAY: Where are my officers?
CHAKOTAY: The turbolift passed through a temporal barrier. They couldn't get through. If you're willing to hear me out, I can explain. At least partly.
JANEWAY: You mean about your being from the future.
CHAKOTAY: Your first Starfleet posting was on the Al-Batani, where you once knocked out power to six decks by misaligning the positronic relays.
JANEWAY: Nice try, but you could have read that in a Maquis intelligence file.
CHAKOTAY: How's Molly, your Irish Setter? You rescued her from a pound on Taris Seti four. She was the runt of the litter, but you thought she had spunk. You love music, but you never learned to play an instrument. Something you still regret.
JANEWAY: How do you know these things?
CHAKOTAY: Because you told me, about three years from now.
JANEWAY: My ready room.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: It's a fascinating story. But as the Ferengi say, a good lie is easier to believe than the truth.
CHAKOTAY: So you're saying no one on your crew has encountered any of these temporal barriers?
JANEWAY: My helmsman disappeared when she tried to walk down that corridor, but that doesn't prove she passed through a temporal barrier.
CHAKOTAY: If you inject yourself, I can take you down that corridor and show you everything I've said is true.
JANEWAY: Have Mister Kim run a full spectral analysis. For all I know, this is poison and Mister Chakotay is trying to assassinate me.
CHAKOTAY: She's right. It's poison, and I'll use it.

[Corridor]
ANDREWS: Let her go.
CHAKOTAY: Lower your weapon.
ANDREWS: Captain!
ANDREWS: Andrews to the Bridge. I need help here.
JANEWAY: Andrews!
CHAKOTAY: He can't hear you. We've moved into a different time frame.
ANDREWS: Scan the area but don't go past that bulkhead.
CHAKOTAY: You want more proof? It's right down that corridor. You just have to trust me.
JANEWAY: It isn't easy when you're holding me hostage.
CHAKOTAY: Stay or go. it's your choice.
JANEWAY: Now that I'm inoculated, I can go anywhere on the ship I want?
CHAKOTAY: That's right.
JANEWAY: Then I suppose I don't need you anymore.
CHAKOTAY: Without me, you'll be walking into a future that you know nothing about.
JANEWAY: Where are we going?
CHAKOTAY: The Astrometrics lab.
JANEWAY: Voyager doesn't have an Astrometrics lab.
CHAKOTAY: Harry designed it, or will design it.
JANEWAY: Harry Kim?
CHAKOTAY: I realize from your perspective he's new to the job, but he's going to become one of our best people.

[Turbolift]
CHAKOTAY: Deck eight.
JANEWAY: Our people?
CHAKOTAY: I'm going to be your First Officer.
JANEWAY: Really. What's the reason we're going to this, er, Astrometrics?
CHAKOTAY: It has temporal sensors that can help us map the ship and tell us how many timeframes we're dealing with.
JANEWAY: Now you're trying to tell me Harry Kim invented temporal sensors?
CHAKOTAY: No. We used Borg technology for that.
JANEWAY: Borg?
CHAKOTAY: It's a long story.
JANEWAY: Maybe you should keep it to yourself. The Temporal Prime Directive. The less I know about the future, the better.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: She's got a pulse.
CHAKOTAY: I'm detecting an active neurogenic field. This could be the day the telepathic pitcher plant put us all into comas. Or it might be the time aliens invaded our dreams.
JANEWAY: We've got to get them help.
CHAKOTAY: Don't worry, we managed to get out of both situations.

[Astrometrics lab - 2394]
NAOMI: Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. I don't recognize you, Lieutenant.
ADULT NAOMI: It's me, Naomi Wildman,
ADULT ICHEB: How did you
CHAKOTAY: Are you Icheb?
JANEWAY: Something tells me you weren't expecting us.
ADULT ICHEB: No, ma'am.
ADULT NAOMI: You both died.
ADULT ICHEB: Seventeen years ago.
CHAKOTAY: The Captain and I haven't risen from the grave. The ship's been fractured into different timeframes.
ADULT NAOMI: Thirty seven to be exact.
JANEWAY: How did you calculate that?
ADULT NAOMI: We've had seventeen years to upgrade the sensors. A chrono-kinetic surge interacted with the warp core.
ADULT ICHEB: It shattered the space-time continuum aboard the ship.
JANEWAY: The accident that occurred in your timeframe.
CHAKOTAY: The question is, can we repair the damage?
JANEWAY: If we could get to a section of the ship that still exists in that time period, maybe we could counteract the surge, stop it from happening.
ADULT ICHEB: That section was the focal point of the surge. It seems to have been obliterated.
ADULT NAOMI: It's too bad Seven's not here.
JANEWAY: Seven?
CHAKOTAY: Someone who knows more about temporal mechanics than any of us.
ADULT ICHEB: Unfortunately, she hasn't been found either.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we can find her in another timeframe.
JANEWAY: I have an Ensign Samantha Wildman on my crew.
ADULT NAOMI: My mother.
CHAKOTAY: Naomi was the first child born on Voyager. A few years later, we rescued Icheb from the Borg.
ADULT NAOMI: When I was little, there was nothing I wanted more than to be the Assistant Captain.
CHAKOTAY: We should get moving.
ADULT ICHEB: Commander. In case you were wondering, I never told Neelix where you hid that cider.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: So why are we looking for this Seven in the Cargo bay?
CHAKOTAY: She spent a lot of time there.
JANEWAY: Working?
CHAKOTAY: Regenerating.

[Cargo Bay two - Scorpion]
JANEWAY: Maybe you'd better fill me in.
CHAKOTAY: This looks like the time you forged a temporary alliance with the Borg.
SEVEN: What's happened to this vessel?
CHAKOTAY: Captain Janeway, meet Seven of Nine, tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix zero one.
SEVEN: When a Borg cube travels trough a transwarp corridor, the temporal stresses are extreme. To keep the different sections of the Cube in temporal sync, we project a chronoton field throughout the vessel.
JANEWAY: How?
SEVEN: Each Cube has specially designed conduits. If we install similar conduits throughout this vessel, then generate a sufficiently powerful field, we may be able to force Voyager back into temporal sync.
CHAKOTAY: Temporal sync with what?
SEVEN: The vessel will return to the moment of the original chrono-kinetic surge. Since the surge will last for six or seven seconds, Commander Chakotay will have a short time in which he could try to counteract the warp core reaction.
CHAKOTAY: Even if we could replicate these conduits, we'd have no way to get them through the temporal barriers.
JANEWAY: Bioneural circuitry.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: It runs through every section of the ship, almost like a nervous system. If we could inject the gel packs with your serum, we could use them to transmit the chronoton field.
SEVEN: The warp core could be recalibrated to generate that field.
JANEWAY: Work on it. Chakotay and I will see about modifying the serum.
SEVEN: Your plan is inefficient.
JANEWAY: Why?
SEVEN: There are only two of you. If I were to assimilate you into a small Borg Collective, you could then assimilate others. The work would proceed more rapidly.
JANEWAY: Sorry, but I like my plan better. We'll be back.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: That was an interesting experience.
CHAKOTAY: If it makes you feel any better, you're going to develop quite a knack for dealing with the Borg.
JANEWAY: You mean we're going to be seeing more of them?
CHAKOTAY: We'll run into them on a few occasions.
JANEWAY: Why do I get the feeling that's an understatement? It doesn't seem like my first command is shaping up the way I expected.
CHAKOTAY: In the middle of the journey of our life, I found myself astray in a dark wood, where the straight road had been lost.
JANEWAY: I didn't know Dante's Inferno was on the Maquis reading list.
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I borrowed your copy.
JANEWAY: My fiance gave me that book as an engagement gift. I've never lent it to anyone.
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. Anyway, I agree with Dante. If you always see the road ahead of you, it's not worth the trip.
JANEWAY: A soldier and a philosopher. Your intelligence file doesn't do you justice.

[Sickbay - pre-Tuvix]
EMH: I've replicated these belts to resist the effects of the temporal barriers, just like the hyposprays.
JANEWAY: I didn't realize you were programmed to be so versatile.
EMH: I wasn't, but when you're thrown into the deep end of the galaxy and left running for as long as I've been, it helps to develop a few extra subroutines.
JANEWAY: How long have you been running?
EMH: Almost three years, since our original doctor was killed.
JANEWAY: Killed? How?
EMH: In the incident that stranded us here in the Delta
CHAKOTAY: Doctor. The Temporal Prime Directive, remember?
EMH: Of course. I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: The Delta Quadrant? Is that what he was about to say?
CHAKOTAY: Ready?
JANEWAY: I'll take the upper decks, you take the lower.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think splitting up's a good idea.
JANEWAY: We'll get the job done faster.
CHAKOTAY: As your First Officer, it's my duty to protect you. I know a lot more about what's out there than you do, and we have no way of communicating if something goes wrong. It may take a little longer, but we should go together.
JANEWAY: After you, Commander.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Can I ask you something? I started out with a crew of a hundred and fifty three. I already know I lost my doctor. How many others?
CHAKOTAY: We'll suffer casualties like any other starship. But you'll also gain new crewmen as well.
JANEWAY: Like you. How do you get to be my First Officer?
CHAKOTAY: Our crews will be forced to work together after we get stranded.
JANEWAY: In the Delta Quadrant? How does that happen?
CHAKOTAY: Are you sure you want to know?
CHAKOTAY: Run!
JANEWAY: What the hell was that?
CHAKOTAY: A macrovirus. They infected the ship a few years ago.
JANEWAY: Sounds like it's going to be one disaster after another on this ship.
CHAKOTAY: You once told me that Starfleet captains don't choose their missions, the missions choose them. You're going to have the opportunity to study things no human has ever seen before.
JANEWAY: Including some very large germs.

[Holodeck - after Bride of Chaotica]
JANEWAY: A monochromatic environment?
CHAKOTAY: It's called black and white. It's one of Tom Paris' Holodeck programs. He based it on some old science fiction serials.
JANEWAY: Interesting technology.
CHAKOTAY: Captain Proton's rocketpack.
JANEWAY: Captain Proton?
CHAKOTAY: The Savior of the Universe.
JANEWAY: Doesn't sound like Mister Paris' tastes are very sophisticated.
CHAKOTAY: That's why we love having him around. The access port should be in there. (The cave turns out to be Chaotica's secret laboratory.
JANEWAY: Here. I think I found the panel. Give me a hand.
LONZAK: Halt, in the name of Chaotica! Seize them!
JANEWAY: Oh, no.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, deactivate program.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
ROBOT: Surrender.
COMPUTER: Holodeck controls are offline.
JANEWAY: Hold on. Now wait a minute.
LONZAK: Thieves, my liege.
ROBOT: Do not resist.
LONZAK: They were attempting to rob your laboratory.
CHAOTICA: Fool! Don't you recognize the Queen of the Spider People? Arachnia, my bride. I knew you'd return to me one day, so I could watch you die.
CHAOTICA: Raise the Lightning Shield! Power the Death Ray! Her fleet may be lurking nearby! We must defend ourselves.
JANEWAY: I'm open to suggestions.
CHAKOTAY: Our best bet is to play along.
JANEWAY: Don't let me stop you.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not the one he's in love with.
CHAOTICA: Arachnia, you beguiled me once with your foul potions. Did you think you could toy with my affections again?
JANEWAY: Were these characters always this ridiculous?
CHAOTICA: If I order Lonzak to pull that lever, you'll never mock me again.
CHAKOTAY: Arachnia.
JANEWAY: Please, my liege. I meant it as ridiculous to think I would ever try to deceive you. I've come to warn you of a fiendish plot.
CHAKOTAY: By aliens from the Eighth Dimension.
CHAOTICA: Eighth? Everyone knows there are only five dimensions.
JANEWAY: If you don't believe us, examine their handiwork for yourself. There's a hidden panel over there behind those rocks.
CHAOTICA: Very well. I'll humor you. Lonzak!
LONZAK: I've found it, Highness.
CHAOTICA: They've sabotaged my laboratory.
JANEWAY: That vial you're holding, it's a neutralizing potion. If you inject their device, you'll render it harmless.
JANEWAY: Release me, and I'll disarm all their devices, throughout your realm.
CHAOTICA: Oh, Arachnia, you do love me.
JANEWAY: How could I resist your magnetism?
CHAOTICA: Or I yours. Together we'll rule the cosmos and grind our enemies into dust.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: If we restore the time line, remind me to cancel Mister Paris' Holodeck privileges.

[Transporter room - Caretaker]
TORRES: What the hell's going on? And what are doing in that uniform?
CHAKOTAY: It's a little complicated.
TORRES: I'm not going anywhere.
CHAKOTAY: Voyager's had an encounter with an anomaly. It's fractured the ship into different time periods.
JANEWAY: We're trying to undo the damage, but we need access to that panel.
TORRES: First she destroys our only way out of the Delta Quadrant, and now you're collaborating with her?
CHAKOTAY: Try to understand. I'm from a time period in your future when all of us will be working together.
TORRES: That's pretty hard to believe.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, I've never lied to you before, and I'm not lying now.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: That woman blamed me for stranding Voyager in the Delta Quadrant.
CHAKOTAY: She was angry.
JANEWAY: But was she right?
CHAKOTAY: You had good reasons for doing what you did.
JANEWAY: What reasons?
CHAKOTAY: You were trying to save lives.
JANEWAY: Whose?
CHAKOTAY: An alien culture. The Ocampans.
JANEWAY: In other words, I'm going to choose to help strangers at the expense of our own people.
CHAKOTAY: It isn't like you to second-guess yourself.
JANEWAY: In this case, I'm second-guessing a decision I haven't made yet.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: Keep dispensing the netrazine until we run out, then switch to the analeptics.
CREWWOMAN: Yes, Lieutenant.
PARIS: How did you get in here?
CHAKOTAY: There isn't time to explain.
JANEWAY: What happened to these people?
PARIS: Radiation poisoning. The EPS relays overloaded when we ran into the anomaly. We need the Doctor and medical supplies, or we're going to have a lot more casualties.
CHAKOTAY: I'm afraid that isn't possible right now. Do the best you can.
PARIS: Yes, sir.
CHAKOTAY: There's an access panel in the galley.
NEELIX: Coffee, black.
JANEWAY: How do you know how I like my coffee?
NEELIX: Well, you haven't changed your standing order in seven years.
JANEWAY: Thanks. It's just what I needed.
NEELIX: Don't worry, Captain, you'll get us out of this. You always do.
CHAKOTAY: All done here.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: I am pleased you're here. I didn't think I would see you again. I want you to know it has been an honor to serve with you, and to be your friend.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris!
TUVOK: Live long and prosper.

[Turbolift]
CHAKOTAY: Deck eleven.
JANEWAY: I can't let this happen. Not again.
CHAKOTAY: What are you talking about?
JANEWAY: Voyager getting stranded. All these deaths, this entire future, it's my fault. I've got to do something to change it.
CHAKOTAY: What do you have in mind?
JANEWAY: Maybe we can find a way to modify Seven of Nine's plan. Put Voyager into temporal sync with my timeframe.
CHAKOTAY: Captain.
JANEWAY: Now that I know what to expect, I could avoid getting trapped in the Delta Quadrant in the first place.
CHAKOTAY: Halt turbolift. Seven's plan is dangerous enough. Trying to alter it is too risky.
JANEWAY: It's worth the risk.
CHAKOTAY: If Seven's idea works, Tuvok and the other crewman will be fine.
JANEWAY: They'll still be stuck in the Delta Quadrant. If the temporal anomaly doesn't kill them, something else will. The Borg, telepathic pitcher plants, macroviruses. The Delta Quadrant is a death-trap.
CHAKOTAY: What about the Temporal Prime Directive?
JANEWAY: To hell with it.
CHAKOTAY: With all due respect, it's a little presumptuous to think you have the right to change everyone's future.
JANEWAY: From what I've seen, they'll thank me.
CHAKOTAY: All you've seen are bits and pieces. You're not getting the whole picture.
JANEWAY: Really? Just what am I missing?
CHAKOTAY: It's not what, it's who. People like Seven of Nine, a Borg Drone who'll become a member of this crew after you help her recover her humanity. Or Tom Paris, a former convict, who'll be our pilot, chief medic, and husband to B'Elanna Torres.
JANEWAY: That angry woman I just met?
CHAKOTAY: She's going to be your Chief Engineer. Two crews, Maquis and Starfleet, are going to become one. And they'll make as big a mark on the Delta Quadrant as it'll make on them by protecting people like the Ocampans, curing diseases, encouraging peace. Children like Naomi and Icheb are going to grow up on this ship and call it home. And we'll all be following a Captain who sets a course for Earth, and never stops believing that we'll get there.
JANEWAY: Are you going to be lecturing me like this for the next seven years?
CHAKOTAY: Don't worry, you'll always get the last word.
JANEWAY: In that case, let's get back to work.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: So, who is this Seska?
CHAKOTAY: She was a member of my crew, who turned out to be a Cardassian spy. She made an alliance with the Kazon and took over the ship. It's all right, we got it back.
JANEWAY: Sounds like she's not going to be as cooperative as the others.
CHAKOTAY: I suggest we take a page from your rule book. We try diplomacy.
JANEWAY: Fine. But the next page in that book says that when diplomacy fails, we need a backup plan.
CHAKOTAY: Something tells me you already have one.

[Engineering - Basics]
CHAKOTAY: We've already injected the gel packs in the other timeframes. That just leaves the ones here. It's in both our interests to work together.
SESKA: I agree. Let him go.
RULAT: You believe him?
SESKA: His story is too preposterous to be a lie. I'll admit it's an ingenious solution.
CHAKOTAY: I'm glad you're cooperating.
SESKA: Oh, I believe in cooperation, as long as it benefits me. You know, it's true what they say.
CHAKOTAY: What's that?
SESKA: Men just get more distinguished as they get older. A few lines here, a little gray there. It adds character. Too bad their minds start to go. The last time you were here you had that nasty head injury, and you mumbled something about my taking over the ship five years ago. If that's true, then you're from a future time frame, which means that at some point, your crew is going to regain control of Voyager. I can't allow that to happen. Step away from the console.
SESKA: It's an ingenious plan. It just needs a slight modification.
CHAKOTAY: What are you doing?
SESKA: Recalibrating your pulse to bring the ship into temporal sync with my time frame.
CHAKOTAY: That's not possible.
SESKA: When will you learn to stop underestimating me?
CHAKOTAY: If you make even the slightest miscalculation you'll destroy the ship and kill everyone.
SESKA: What other choice do I have? If I can get Voyager into my own timeframe, then I'll be able to ensure that you never retake the ship. Don't worry, I won't hurt you. You can start fresh with me.
CHAKOTAY: Sorry, that's not the future I have in mind.
SESKA: In that case.
SESKA: Goodbye, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: It's too dangerous. There are too many variables.
SESKA: You're not pleading for your life, are you?
JANEWAY: Do it.
CHAKOTAY: I'm telling you, you're endangering your own life.
SESKA: I'm touched by your concern.
SESKA: Stop! Put down your weapons.
JANEWAY: Don't listen to her.
SESKA: Oh, your faithful First Officer isn't going to let you die. Are you?
SESKA: Very clever, Chakotay, inoculating them with your serum. Now it's time to inoculate my people so we can have access to the rest of the ship.
CHAKOTAY: I won't do that.
SESKA: Then you just lost your Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Now drop your weapons.
JANEWAY: Thanks.
TORRES: Seska and the Kazon are secure in the Jefferies Tube. The last gel packs?
CHAKOTAY: They're ready.
JANEWAY: The rest of us should return to our sections. After Chakotay initiates the warp pulse, he should find himself back at the moment Voyager encountered the chrono-kinetic surge. He's only going to have a few seconds to reset the deflector polarity. If the time line is restored, the rest of us should have no memory of what's happened here. So I'd like to thank you now for putting your doubts aside, and helping me put mine aside as well. Good luck to each of you.
JANEWAY: Mind if I ask you one last question?
CHAKOTAY: Will I have to break the Temporal Prime Directive to answer it?
JANEWAY: Maybe, just a little. For two people who started off as enemies, it seems we get to know each other pretty well. So I've been wondering. Just how close do we get?
CHAKOTAY: Let's just say there are some barriers we never cross.
JANEWAY: See you in the future.

[Bridge - pre-Caretaker]
JANEWAY: Ensign?
KIM: Chakotay should be initiating the pulse in ten seconds. Five, four, three, two

[Engineering]
CHAKOTAY: Reroute main power to the deflector, and set the polarity to the frequency I'm inputting.
TORRES: Why?
CHAKOTAY: Have you ever heard of a lightning rod? In about three seconds, we're going to need one.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What is it?
KIM: I don't know. Main power's being rerouted to the deflector dish.
JANEWAY: Who gave that order?
JANEWAY: Damage?
KIM: The deflector's been burned out, but we're okay.
JANEWAY: Do you mind telling me why B'Elanna burned out the deflector dish?
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I ordered her to do it.
JANEWAY: Why?
CHAKOTAY: Trust me, it was better than the alternative.
JANEWAY: Which was what, exactly?
CHAKOTAY: I can't tell you.
JANEWAY: Why not?
CHAKOTAY: The Temporal Prime Directive. B'Elanna's already got a team working on repairs. What do you say we finish our dinner?

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Forget particle fountains and subspace inversions. There isn't an anomaly scarier than a thunderstorm on the plains, especially when you're six years old. I remember watching a bolt of lightning split an oak tree in my grandfather's yard. I'd climbed it just a few hours before.
CHAKOTAY: Good timing.
JANEWAY: So what would've happened if you hadn't turned our deflector dish into a lightning rod?
CHAKOTAY: We've been down this road before.
JANEWAY: Have we?
CHAKOTAY: You wanting answers to questions you shouldn't ask.
JANEWAY: But something did happen, outside the normal space time continuum. It's strange, thinking there's a piece of your life you don't know anything about.
CHAKOTAY: Sounds a lot like the future.
JANEWAY: Any predictions?
CHAKOTAY: Only that in a few minutes this bottle will be empty.
JANEWAY: Then maybe you should go to the Cargo Bay, grab another one.
CHAKOTAY: How do you know that's where I keep it?
JANEWAY: Oh, I can't tell you.
CHAKOTAY: Why not?
JANEWAY: Temporal Prime Directive.

[Corridor]
TORRES: Good morning.
PARIS: You're in a good mood.
TORRES: It's another beautiful day in the Delta Quadrant.
PARIS: What did you have for breakfast?
TORRES: I'll see you tonight.

[Engineering]
CREWWOMAN: Here you are, Lieutenant.
TORRES: Thank you. Nice job, Ensign. You keep the warp field that stable you might just get us home a few years early.

[Engineering upper level]
ICHEB: The Starfleet manual allows for a variance of point three.
SEVEN: That's only a guideline. You can do better.
TORRES: I don't remember giving you permission to work here.
ICHEB: I'm sorry, Lieutenant.
SEVEN: I'm helping him study warp mechanics.
TORRES: You should have notified me. It's a busy day, and I.
SEVEN: Lieutenant?
TORRES: I'm fine.
ICHEB: I'm detecting another lifesign.
SEVEN: Where?
ICHEB: Inside Lieutenant Torres. It could be a parasite.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to the Doctor.
EMH (voiceover): Go ahead.
SEVEN: I'll be accompanying Lieutenant Torres to Sickbay.
EMH: What's wrong?
SEVEN: I believe she's pregnant.

[Sickbay]
EMH: The fetus appears to be about seven weeks old and doing quite well. So are you.
PARIS: Why did she faint?
EMH: Klingon and human metabolisms sometimes clash.
TORRES: Tell me about it.
EMH: It's not uncommon for such pregnancies to cause biochemical fluctuations in the mother.
PARIS: Is that serious?
EMH: Not usually. You can expect some behavioral volatility, increased nutritional needs. Creating new life is a big job.
PARIS: Creating new life.
TORRES: I can't believe it.
EMH: I don't mean to be indelicate but, weren't you trying to get pregnant?
TORRES: Well, of course. I mean, we knew we wanted a family.
PARIS: But the odds against human-Klingon conception are so high.
EMH: Well, apparently you've beaten the odds. May I be the first to congratulate you.
PARIS: When is the baby due?
EMH: Normally, Klingon pregnancies run thirty weeks. But with mixed species, it could be sooner.
PARIS: Is it a girl or a boy?
TORRES: No. Don't tell. I want to be surprised.
PARIS: We've already been surprised.
TORRES: I just don't see any reason to have to label the baby. I don't want to know the gender. I don't want to have to pick a name yet.
PARIS: Okay, okay, Mommy knows best.
TORRES: Mommy?

[Corridor]
PARIS: I wonder if the holodeck has any child-rearing programs.
TORRES: There are some things you just can't simulate.
PARIS: I'll take whatever help I can get.
TORRES: We should get our quarters ready.
PARIS: Maybe I could replicate one of those antique cribs.
TORRES: And put it where? We need to rearrange the living area.
PARIS: We need to do a lot more than that.
TORRES: You're happy about this, right?
PARIS: Of course I'm happy. Just a little overwhelmed, that's all.
TORRES: Me too. Can we, er, keep this to ourselves for a while?
PARIS: Absolutely.
TORRES: I, er, I need to get to work. See you later, Dad.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Congratulations, Tom.
PARIS: Thanks. How did you find out?
NEELIX: Icheb. Oh, he wasn't supposed to tell?
PARIS: We were hoping to keep it private for an hour or so.
NEELIX: As they say on Talax, omara s'alas. Good news has no clothes.
PARIS: Thanks. I guess.
NEELIX: Now, my good news would be learning that I'll be the godfather. I do have experience with Naomi Wildman, you know.
PARIS: I can't think of anyone more qualified.
NEELIX: Well, in that case, I've been making up a list of names. Tell me

[Engineering]
CHAKOTAY: Have you checked the warp core for radiation leaks today?
TORRES: No. Why?
CHAKOTAY: You have a certain glow about you.
TORRES: Okay, who told you?
JANEWAY: I just heard. Congratulations.
TORRES: Thanks.
JANEWAY: Seven said you were dizzy. Are you all right?
TORRES: I'm fine.
CHAKOTAY: Nothing ever rattled her. Not even the Cardassians.
TORRES: This is scarier.
JANEWAY: Would you like some time off?
TORRES: To do what?
JANEWAY: Adjust. This is a big change.
TORRES: I'll work during the day, sleep at night, and have the baby when it's time.
JANEWAY: Well, if you need to cut back on your duties, I'm sure Seven would be happy to fill in for you.
TORRES: I think I can handle it.

[Corridor]
KIM: Congratulations, buddy.
PARIS: Where did you hear the news? In the datastream from Earth?
KIM: Actually, I think it was a transmission from the Borg. It's all over now. No more late nights on the holodeck. No more racing the Delta Flyer.
PARIS: Don't you think you're exaggerating just a little?
KIM: I've seen it happen. The new dad gets tied down with family. Old friends drop away.
PARIS: It's fatherhood , Harry, not exile.
KIM: If you say so. Kidding aside, how's it feel?
PARIS: Well, it's, it's not quite real yet.
KIM: Maybe that's what pregnancy's for. Time to let reality sink in, before your life spins out of control.

[Jefferies tube]
PARIS: Do you need any help?
TUVOK: Mister Paris, this may be the first time you've ever volunteered to assist me.
PARIS: Really? Well, we ought to change that. I mean, we've known each other a long time. We ought to work more closely.
TUVOK: I'll keep that in mind.
PARIS: So, I guess you've heard. B'Elanna and I are going to have a baby.
TUVOK: I was unaware.
PARIS: Finally, someone who doesn't know.
TUVOK: Allow me to extend my best wishes.
PARIS: Thanks. You know, a baby is, er, it's a big responsibility. But I'm ready for it. Not that you can ever be completely ready, can you?
TUVOK: Lieutenant, are you asking me for advice about fatherhood?
PARIS: Well, I don't know anyone else who's been through it.
TUVOK: I'm afraid my parenting skills are somewhat dormant. It's been many years since my children were young.
PARIS: Then you've had a long time to think back on it. Any helpful hints?
TUVOK: Offspring can be disturbingly illogical, yet profoundly fulfilling. You should anticipate paradox.
PARIS: I'll remember that.
TUVOK: If you'd like my counsel on more specific issues?
PARIS: Something tells me I'm going to be volunteering to work with you on a regular basis.

[Torres-Paris' quarters]
PARIS: So?
TORRES: Looks nice.
PARIS: Well, I figured quiet romantic dinners may soon be a thing of the past. Tough day?
TORRES: The captain practically relieved me of duty, as if I couldn't handle being an engineer and being pregnant at the same time.
PARIS: Well, if you ever need a baby-sitter, Godfather Neelix is ready to go.
TORRES: Chakotay wants to be godfather.
PARIS: Neelix already has a list of names.
TORRES: Oh, I don't mind people suggesting names. What annoys me is all of the free advice about feeding, discipline.
PARIS: Folk wisdom is my favorite. According to Chell, Bolians believe that if you give birth near a warp core, it'll improve the baby's disposition.
TORRES: Why does everybody feel they're entitled to give us advice? This is our child.
PARIS: People should know better than to interfere with a Klingon mother.
TORRES: What's that supposed to mean?
PARIS: Nothing. It was a joke.
TORRES: What does being Klingon have to do with it?
PARIS: Take it easy.
TORRES: I don't want to take it easy! I want everybody to back off and just let me. The Doctor said I might experience some behavioral volatility. I guess this is it.
PARIS: Forget about the Doctor. Forget the captain or the godfathers.
TORRES: Maybe you're right.
PARIS: I know I am. This isn't about their expectations or hopes or doubts. None of this belongs to them.
TORRES: It belongs to us. All of it.
PARIS: Lucky us.
EMH (voiceover): Lieutenants Torres and Paris, please report to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: It's a holographic extrapolation of your child's spine, approximately ten months after birth.
TORRES: It's deviated.
EMH: Yes, there's a pronounced curvature to the left.
PARIS: Can it be corrected?
TORRES: I had surgery for it when I was a baby.
PARIS: You never told me that.
TORRES: My mother had it, too.
EMH: It tends to run in Klingon families, especially among females.
PARIS: Are you saying that this baby is a girl?
EMH: No. I didn't say that.
PARIS: But it is a girl, right?
EMH: You cannot infer that.
TORRES: It's okay. You might as well just tell us.
EMH: Yes. It's a girl. And aside from the deviated spine, she's healthy.
PARIS: Will she need surgery?
EMH: Fortunately, we've advanced beyond that. Genetic modification is the treatment of choice.
PARIS: If you can project an image of the spine, can you use the genetic data to show us the whole baby?
EMH: I could. It would only be an approximation.
PARIS: Let's take a look.
TORRES: I don't know.
PARIS: Oh, come on. Aren't you curious?
TORRES: Okay.
PARIS: Oh, she's beautiful.
TORRES: Forehead ridges?
EMH: Yes.
TORRES: But she's only one-quarter Klingon.
EMH: Klingon traits remain dominant for several generations, even with a single ancestor.
PARIS: Oh, she looks just like her mother.

[Torres' memory - campfire]
JOHN: You are so much like your mother.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: She's perfect, isn't she?

[Torres-Paris' quarters]
PARIS: What a day.
TORRES: Uh-huh.
PARIS: Six years in the Delta Quadrant and nothing has ever scared me as much as hearing our baby had a problem.
TORRES: It's not much of a problem.
PARIS: We didn't know that at first.
TORRES: Now we know.
PARIS: And we also know that the Doctor is going to fix everything tomorrow morning.
TORRES: I'm sorry. It's a lot to take in all at once, and I'm really tired.
PARIS: We could both use some sleep. Computer, dim the lights.

[Torres' memories - camping trip]
CARL: Somebody make sure those coals are completely out.
DEAN: I'll get it, Dad.
JOHN: You kids be careful and be back before sunset.
CARL: And bring your appetites. We're having fish for dinner.
ELIZABETH: If you two can catch any.
B'ELANNA: Dad, I increased the field strength of the targeting lure.
JOHN: Ooo. Those fish don't stand a chance. Better get going, your cousins aren't going to wait forever.
B'ELANNA: I was thinking. Maybe I could go fishing with you and Uncle Carl.
JOHN: I thought you were looking forward to the hike. Just the kids, no dads to slow you down.
B'ELANNA: They don't like me.
JOHN: Why would you say that?
B'ELANNA: Because it's true.
ELIZABETH: Come on, B'Elanna, let's go.
JOHN: See? Now go on, have a good time.
B'ELANNA: Dad?
JOHN: What is it?
B'ELANNA: Nothing.

[Torres-Paris' quarters]
PARIS: Relax, we're not that late.
TORRES: The Doctor scheduled me at oh eight hundred.
PARIS: You still have time for my favorite gourmet breakfast, peanut butter toast.
TORRES: I'm too tired to eat.
PARIS: If you're having trouble sleeping now, wait till those oh two hundred feedings come around.
TORRES: You'll be in charge of those.
PARIS: I can't wait.
TORRES: Look, er, you don't have to come with me. It a minor procedure.
PARIS: Wouldn't you like some moral support?
TORRES: I'm not an invalid.
PARIS: In that case you're on your own. That goes for breakfast, too.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've been expanding my database in obstetrics and pediatrics.
TORRES: You haven't found another problem, have you?
EMH: No, not at all. But I have put together a prenatal enrichment program.
TORRES: Why am I not surprised?
EMH: I'd like to start with trans-abdominal vocalization.
TORRES: Let me guess. You're going to sing to my fetus.
EMH: Through a diatonal amplifier. It's quite safe, and it should enhance the child's mathematical abilities.
TORRES: Can we talk about this later?
EMH: Absolutely. At our first parenting class.
TORRES: Parenting class?
EMH: Birthing techniques, feeding options, bonding strategies. It's not all hard work, though. We'll have ample time for fun.
TORRES: Could we get on with it?
EMH: Certainly. Computer, dim lights.
TORRES: I hope you don't expect me to sleep through this.
EMH: Of course not. The darkness encourages vascular dilation. Now you may feel a slight tingling. Please remain as still as possible.

[Torres' memories - hiking]
MICHAEL: B'Elanna, come and have lunch.
B'ELANNA: That's okay. I'm not hungry.
MICHAEL: You'd better eat while you can. You know our dads aren't going to catch any fish.
ELIZABETH: Here.
B'ELANNA: Thanks.
ELIZABETH: Your mom wasn't sure you'd be able to come this weekend.
B'ELANNA: I had a lot of schoolwork.
ELIZABETH: I'm glad you made it.
B'ELANNA: That's nice of you to say.
ELIZABETH: No, I mean it.
DEAN: Hey, B'Elanna, can you hand me a drink?
B'ELANNA: Okay.
DEAN: Thanks.
DEAN: My teacher said Klingons like live food.
ELIZABETH: Hey, stop it. Stop.
DEAN: It was just a joke.
ELIZABETH: It was a stupid joke, Dean. He's always doing stuff like that to me.
DEAN: Don't be mad, B'Elanna.
ELIZABETH: B'Elanna, wait.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Computer, raise lights. Your daughter's spinal column is now perfectly aligned.
TORRES: Is she going to be all right?
EMH: Better than all right, if her parents are any indication.

[Holodeck research lab]
TORRES: Computer, access B'Elanna Torres' medical file.
COMPUTER: File accessed.
TORRES: Project a holographic image of the baby.
TORRES: Now extrapolate what the child's facial features will look like at twelve years old.
TORRES: Display the fetus genome.
TORRES: Delete the following gene sequences. Extrapolate what the child would look like with those genetic changes.
TORRES: Delete the following sequences. Extrapolate.
TORRES: Save changes. Restrict access to this file. B'Elanna Torres only.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: There's no valid medical reason to do what you're proposing.
TORRES: I disagree.
EMH: You want to delete entire DNA sequences. The genes that create redundant organs, for example.
TORRES: They're superfluous.
EMH: Those redundancies are there for a reason.
TORRES: Does my daughter need a third lung to survive?
EMH: Strictly speaking, no. But having it may be beneficial. Some geneticists believe the extra lung evolved to give Klingons greater stamina on the battlefield.
TORRES: My daughter is not going to be a Klingon warrior.
EMH: With all due respect, you have no idea what your daughter's going to be. What if she develops an interest in athletics? Greater lung capacity would be an advantage. The point is, there's no reason to arbitrarily remove genetic traits.
TORRES: It's not arbitrary. It's preventive.
EMH: How so?
TORRES: That third lung could become diseased, couldn't it?
EMH: I suppose.
TORRES: Then what I'm suggesting is no different than removing an appendix before it becomes inflamed.
EMH: Why tamper with biological systems that evolved over eons?
TORRES: Like curvature of the spine?
EMH: If I make these changes, it'll affect her appearance.
TORRES: I'm aware of that.
EMH: Are you also aware that some of these genes influence behavior, personality?
TORRES: None of that's as important as her health.
EMH: What does Tom think about all this?
TORRES: I wanted to see what you thought first.
EMH: As you can see, I'm very dubious.
TORRES: Look, I've done statistical analyzes, epidemiology. At least review my work.
EMH: All right, I'll look at it. But in the meantime, I suggest you have a talk with your husband.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Absolutely not.
TORRES: This is our child's health we're talking about.
PARIS: It's more than that. You want to change who she is, her individuality, her. You don't want her to be Klingon. That's what this is really about, isn't it? You're trying to protect her from being Klingon because you had a rough time when you were a kid.
TORRES: I was treated like a monster.
PARIS: That isn't going to happen to our daughter. Everyone on Voyager will accept her for who she really is.
TORRES: That's easy for you to say. You're human.
PARIS: Meaning what, exactly?
TORRES: Meaning you don't understand what it's like.
PARIS: Okay then, tell me.
TORRES: When the people around you are all one way and you're not, you can't help feeling like there's something wrong with you.
PARIS: Voyager isn't just one way. We've got Bajorans, Vulcans, a Talaxian.
TORRES: And hundred and forty humans.
PARIS: Our daughter is going to have a mixed heritage just like her mother. It's something you'll have in common. Something she should be proud of. Why destroy that?
TORRES: I'm not destroying anything. Gene resequencing isn't a weapon, it's a tool, like a hyperspanner.
PARIS: She's not a machine, She's our daughter.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: I'm not exactly sure what you want me to do.
TORRES: I want you to order the Doctor to genetically alter my child.
PARIS: Do you see what I'm dealing with here?
JANEWAY: What you're asking for is ethically questionable. The Doctor has reservations. Your husband is against it.
TORRES: I only want to do what you did, for Seven of Nine.
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon?
TORRES: You had her implants removed.
JANEWAY: I don't see the connection.
TORRES: You altered her physiology. You changed who she was.
JANEWAY: I was acting in her best interests.
TORRES: That's all I'm doing.
PARIS: Seven was born human. The captain just helped to restore her original physiology.
TORRES: And gave her a much better life in the process.
PARIS: Our child isn't even born yet. How do you know what's going to make her life better?
TORRES: I just don't want her to start at a disadvantage.
PARIS: Look, the Doctor said you might experience mood swings.
TORRES: That's it. Just dismiss my argument as some kind of hormonal outburst.
PARIS: I didn't mean that.
JANEWAY: Stop it, both of you. The biggest problem you two have isn't ethical, it's marital. I'm happy to offer you advice as a friend. But as your captain, I'm not going to overrule the Chief Medical Officer. You two need to work this out.

[Corridor]
PARIS: B'Elanna?
TORRES: What?
PARIS: You heard the captain. We have to work this out.
TORRES: There's nothing to work out. You're getting what you want.
PARIS: What I want is to have a civilized discussion with my wife. Maybe a change of scenery would help. How about the holodeck?
TORRES: That's your solution to everything.
PARIS: At least I'm trying. Look, I don't care where we do it, but we have to talk this out.
TORRES: I am tired of talking, all right?

[Kim's quarters]
PARIS: Do I need a reservation?
KIM: What happened?
PARIS: I think B'Elanna and I need some time apart.
KIM: My couch is your couch.
PARIS: She's barely pregnant and already we're having a major crisis.
KIM: You'll make up. You always do.
PARIS: But that's what worries me. We're always fighting and making up. How's that going to affect our daughter?
KIM: She's going to have a great life. Piloting a ship from your lap, battling Doctor Chaotica on the holodeck.
PARIS: Yeah, unless B'Elanna thinks battling is too Klingon.
KIM: She's always been sensitive about being part Klingon. You know that.
PARIS: That doesn't give her the right to turn our child into a science experiment.
KIM: But it does explain why this is so important to her.
PARIS: What am I supposed to do?
KIM: Maybe you should tell her you understand.
PARIS: What good would that do?
KIM: It might make her less defensive, and then maybe it would be easier for her to see your point of view.
PARIS: What if she can't?
KIM: Like I said, my couch is your couch.

[Torres' memories - campsite]
JOHN: She should be back by now.
CARL: Nobody has any idea where she went?
DEAN: She just ran off down there.
JOHN: I'm going to go look for her.
ELIZABETH: Uncle John?
JOHN: Yeah?
ELIZABETH: I. It.
JOHN: B'Elanna, where have you been?
B'ELANNA: I'm sorry. I got kind of separated.
ELIZABETH: It was our fault.
MICHAEL: It was Dean's fault. He put a worm in her sandwich.
DEAN: I was just kidding. I'm really sorry.
B'ELANNA: Forget it.
CARL: Come on, let's get dinner started.
JOHN: You want to talk about it?
B'ELANNA: I just wish.
JOHN: You wish what?
B'ELANNA: I wish I weren't Klingon.
JOHN: Now why would you say that?
B'ELANNA: Because everyone makes fun of me.
JOHN: Who's everyone?
B'ELANNA: Dean. The kids at school. They all hate me.
JOHN: Did I ever tell you what the kids at my school used to call me? I used to fall asleep in class all the time, so instead of John Torres, they called me John Snore-ez.
B'ELANNA: It's not the same thing.
JOHN: Of course it is. Kids tease each other. They can be very cruel. But it doesn't mean that they hate you, or that they hate Klingons.
B'ELANNA: You don't understand!
JOHN: I think I do. You have to learn to be a little less sensitive.
B'ELANNA: Fine.
JOHN: Now come on. Uncle Carl's going to tell one of his famous fish stories.
B'ELANNA: I'd rather just read.
JOHN: Suit yourself.
CARL: We saw a flying fish today.
ELIZABETH: Flying fish?
CARL: It's true. I'm telling. You we saw it.
MICHAEL: Really?
CARL: John, did we see a flying fish today?
JOHN: We sure did. It jumped five feet in the air.
JOHN: Everybody asleep?
CARL: They were exhausted. Coffee?
JOHN: Sure.
CARL: Listen, I'm sorry.
JOHN: For what?
CARL: The way Dean treated B'Elanna. I had a talk with him.
JOHN: He was just doing what eleven year olds do. I'm sure B'Elanna overreacted.
CARL: What makes you say that?
JOHN: She's too damn sensitive.
CARL: What do you mean? She's a great kid.
JOHN: You haven't been around her much the last couple of years. She's gotten moody, unpredictable, argumentative. Just like her mother.
CARL: I thought you loved Miral's intensity.
JOHN: Everything's become a fight with her. I guess the older, I get the less intensity I can handle. You know, it's funny how Mom and Dad always turn out to be right.
CARL: What do you mean?
JOHN: Mom warned me not to marry Miral.
CARL: Mom loved Miral.
JOHN: Sure she did. But she never thought I had the constitution to live with a Klingon. And now I'm living with two of them.

[Engineering]
CHAKOTAY: Taya.
TORRES: What?
CHAKOTAY: Taya. It's the feminine form of Chakotay. What do you think?
TORRES: I'll add it to the list. Right after Floxia. Neelix suggested that one. It's number thirty two.
CHAKOTAY: On second thought, you and Tom ought to come up with your own name.
TORRES: I knew there was a reason I always liked you.
CHAKOTAY: You look like you've been up all night. Want to get some coffee?
TORRES: That's the best offer I've had all week.

[Corridor]
PARIS: Morning.
TORRES: Hi.
CHAKOTAY: Join us for breakfast? You know what? I forgot my PADD. Why don't you two go ahead. I'll meet you in the mess hall.
PARIS: So, how are you today?
TORRES: I haven't changed my mind, if that's what you mean.
PARIS: No. What I meant was, how are you?
TORRES: I've been better, but I'll get over it.
PARIS: You know, Harry has the lumpiest pillows on the ship. He snores, keeps the room way too hot. I missed you.
TORRES: Me too.
PARIS: I still owe you that slice of peanut butter toast. Why don't we go back to our quarters, fire up the toaster?
TORRES: Sounds nice.
EMH (voiceover): Lieutenant Torres, Lieutenant Paris, please report to Sickbay.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: I've reviewed the data you gave me, and I've also done my own analysis.
TORRES: Skip the details, Doctor. You've already made it clear what you think of my proposal.
EMH: Actually, I've changed my opinion.
PARIS: What?
EMH: The genetic alterations you've suggested are necessary.
PARIS: On what grounds?
EMH: The clash I mentioned between Klingon and human metabolism? It's more extensive than I realized.
TORRES: How extensive?
EMH: Theoretically, it could lead to complete metabolic failure.
TORRES: But you can fix it.
EMH: By eliminating most of her Klingon genetic material.
PARIS: Are you sure about all of this?
EMH: My analysis was quite thorough. Of course if our circumstances were different, you would be free to seek a second opinion.
PARIS: No offense, Doc, but I am just trying to understand what's going on.
EMH: You're welcome to review my findings. But let me stress, it would be unwise to delay this too long.
TORRES: Why?
EMH: The fetus is at a critical stage of development. Antibodies have begun to form.
PARIS: How long do we have?
EMH: I've scheduled the procedure for tomorrow morning. With your permission.

[Astrometrics lab]
PARIS: I want to thank you both for helping B'Elanna when she fainted.
SEVEN: I'm glad it wasn't a parasite.
PARIS: Well, you probably don't know this, but there may be some problems with the pregnancy.
SEVEN: I'm sorry to hear that.
PARIS: The Doctor suggested a treatment for the baby, but his findings are very confusing, at least to me. You have some expertise in genetics. Do you mind taking a look at this?
ICHEB: Of course not.
SEVEN: Whatever the problem is, I have no doubt the Doctor will solve it.
PARIS: I hope you're right.
ICHEB: Your confusion is understandable. There's a computational error.
SEVEN: It's not like the Doctor to make a mistake.
PARIS: I didn't think that was possible, unless there's some sort of glitch in his program.
SEVEN: I'll run a diagnostic.
PARIS: Thank you.
ICHEB: Please tell Lieutenant Torres, if there's anything I can do.
PARIS: I'll let her know. Thanks.
SEVEN: It appears to be more than a glitch. I believe the Doctor's program has been tampered with.
PARIS: B'Elanna, this is Tom. Respond. Computer, locate Lieutenant Torres.
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Torres is in Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Frankly, I'm relieved you decided not to wait till the last minute.
TORRES: Once this is behind us I'm sure we'll all feel better.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Someone's blocked communications to Sickbay.
PARIS: See if you can deactivate the Doctor.
SEVEN: Access to his program has been restricted.
PARIS: Keep trying. Paris to Tuvok.
TUVOK (voiceover): Go ahead.
PARIS: Meet me in Sickbay.

[Outside Sickbay]
TUVOK: Why would she alter the Doctor's program?
PARIS: To change his mind about the medical procedure. Computer, open Sickbay doors.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
TUVOK: Override authorisation Tuvok pi alpha.
COMPUTER: Authorisation denied.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: Doctor, stop what you're doing.
EMH: You're interrupting a medical procedure.
PARIS: Your program has been altered.
EMH: What do you mean, altered?
TORRES: Ignore him.
PARIS: B'Elanna, this is completely irrational.
EMH: Will someone please tell me what's going on?
TORRES: I'm your patient. Your first duty is to me and my baby.
TUVOK: Tuvok to bridge.
KIM (voiceover): Kim here.
TUVOK: There's a force field in Sickbay.

[Bridge]
TUVOK (voiceover): I can't deactivate it. Cut power to the EPS relay

[Sickbay]
TUVOK: Surrounding the surgical bay.

[Bridge]
KIM: Access has been restricted. I'll have to bypass them.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: You said it could be dangerous to delay the procedure.
PARIS: She's manipulating you, Doc, in more ways than one.
EMH: I'm sorry, Lieutenant, but if there's something wrong with my program.
TORRES: There's nothing wrong with your program.
KIM (voiceover): I'm cutting power to the surgical bay, now.
TUVOK: I suggest we deactivate your program until we determine the extent of the alterations.
EMH: I understand. Computer, deactivate EMH.
TORRES: You had no right to interfere.
PARIS: Tuvok, would you mind giving us a minute?
PARIS: I never thought you would go this far.
TORRES: I don't know what you're talking about.
PARIS: Reprogramming the Doctor?
TORRES: I upgraded his program so he could understand what had to be done.
PARIS: You mean to reconfigure our baby so she wouldn't be treated like a monster.
TORRES: It's not just about the way she'll be treated.
PARIS: What else is it about, then? Come on, B'Elanna. Tell me.
TORRES: Forget it.
PARIS: No, no, we're not going to forget it. We're going to talk about this right now.
TORRES: Stop telling me what to do. You're not my father.
PARIS: What are you talking about?
TORRES: Look, my father
PARIS: What? What about him?
TORRES: We were inseparable. He spoiled me and I worshiped him. But the older I got, we just grew apart. He ended up organizing this camping trip with my cousins. I guess he just wanted to, I don't know, make things better again.
PARIS: But it didn't.
TORRES: It was awful. I ended up trying to run away.

[Torres' memory - campsite]
JOHN: B'Elanna? What are you doing?

[Sickbay]
TORRES: It was so stupid. I mean, where was I going to go?
PARIS: You probably just wanted him to stop you.
TORRES: Well, he did.

[Torres' memory - campsite]
B'ELANNA: Don't touch me.
JOHN: B'Elanna, what's wrong?
B'ELANNA: You know what's wrong.
JOHN: No, I don't.
B'ELANNA: Maybe I'm just being moody and unpredictable.
JOHN: What are you talking about?
B'ELANNA: I heard what you said to Uncle Carl.
JOHN: You shouldn't be listening to private conversations.
B'ELANNA: And you shouldn't have said what you did about Mommy.
JOHN: B'Elanna, listen to me. Your mother and I are having problems, but that doesn't
B'ELANNA: You don't love her anymore.
JOHN: That's not true.
B'ELANNA: Yes, it is. And you don't love me, either.
JOHN: B'Elanna.
B'ELANNA: You're no different than anyone else. You don't like Klingons. You said it.
JOHN: You are twisting my words, B'Elanna.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: Maybe he was right. Maybe you misunderstood.
TORRES: No, I know what I heard. It made me so angry.
PARIS: You had a right to be, after the things he said.
TORRES: It's not what he said. It's what I said.

[Torres' memory - campsite]
B'ELANNA: If you can't stand living with us, then why don't you just leave?

[Sickbay]
TORRES: And that's exactly what he did.
PARIS: Oh, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Twelve days later. And he never came back.
PARIS: You can't blame yourself for that.
TORRES: Why not?
PARIS: Because he was obviously unhappy about his marriage. He didn't leave just because you told him to.
TORRES: You don't know that.
PARIS: Look, whatever the reason was, I'm sure it was a horrible thing for you to live with. Wait a minute. You don't think? B'Elanna, I am never going to leave you.
TORRES: You say that now. But think about how hard it is to live with one Klingon. Pretty soon it'll be two.
PARIS: And someday I hope it's three or four. I mean it. And I hope that every one of them is just like you. B'Elanna, I am not your father and you are not your mother. And our daughter is going to be perfect just the way she is.
TORRES: Do you really think so?
PARIS: I know so. Medical officer's log, stardate 54452.6. Lieutenant Torres has deleted the alterations she made to my program. It's a relief to be back to my old self again.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Good morning, Lieutenant. You're not feeling ill, are you?
TORRES: No. I'm fine. I just wanted to apologize for violating your program.
EMH: Apology accepted. Not guilty by reason of biochemistry.
TORRES: Nice of you to let me off the hook. But biochemistry isn't an excuse. I knew exactly what I was doing. Oh!
EMH: Is something wrong?
TORRES: I don't know.
EMH: Your baby's kicking.
TORRES: So soon?
EMH: Well, she is part Klingon.
TORRES: Oh. There it is again.
EMH: May I?
EMH: Feisty little thing, isn't she? I wonder where she gets that from.
TORRES: Speaking of the baby, I have another request.
EMH: Yes?
TORRES: I wonder if you'd like to be her godfather. Neelix wants the job but he's already got Naomi Wildman. And Chakotay knows less about raising kids than Harry. And if you think
EMH: I accept.
TORRES: Thanks.
EMH: Thank you.
TORRES: I was also wondering. Do you think I could see her one more time? The holographic projection, I mean.
EMH: I don't see why not.
TORRES: She is cute, isn't she?

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Starship Voyager. We're responding to your distress call.
YEDIQ (voiceover): A ruptured conduit is flooding my ship with plasma radiation. We request immediate transport.
KIM: I'm detecting eleven life signs. Two are weak.
JANEWAY: Transport the injured to Sickbay and the rest to Cargo Bay one. I want security teams at both locations.

[Cargo Bay one]
YEDIQ: Our weapons!
TUVOK: They'll be returned to you when you leave.
YEDIQ: These are dangerous criminals. They have to be secured.
TUVOK: We'll do our best to accommodate you.
YEDIQ: I had eight men in custody. Where are the other two?

[Sickbay]
EMH: We're not going to hurt you.
IKO: Stay away or I'll kill her!
EMH: I'm sure we can resolve this without resorting to violence. What is it you want?
IKO: A ship, some food.
EMH: I might be able to arrange that, but you'll have to release her first.
IKO: I'm not a fool.
IKO: You know I'll do it. Tell them.
YEDIQ: You're not getting off this ship.
TUVOK: If you release her, I promise you won't be harmed.
IKO: Not until I get a ship.
YEDIQ: We don't negotiate with criminals.
EMH: Who are you?
YEDIQ: Warden Yediq of the Nygean Detention Force. This man is my prisoner.
EMH: If that were true, he wouldn't be holding my friend hostage.
IKO: Get back!
EMH: I'm a hologram. I can't be harmed.
EMH: I think you proved my point.

[Ready room]
YEDIQ: We're lucky you came along, Captain. Ten more minutes and none of use would have survived the plasma leak.
TUVOK: Your vessel was equipped with escape pods. Why didn't you use them?
YEDIQ: I couldn't risk letting any of the prisoners get away. As you've seen, they're extremely dangerous.
CHAKOTAY: Where are you taking them?
YEDIQ: Back to our homeworld. They're due to be executed.
TUVOK: What were their crimes?
YEDIQ: All eight are murderers. Three are multiple offenders. We're just thirteen light years from our system. I'd appreciate it if you'd take us back there.
JANEWAY: Actually, we were headed in the opposite direction.
YEDIQ: I could arrange for one of our ships to rendezvous with Voyager. It'll take several days. My prisoners will have to be strictly monitored.
JANEWAY: Commander Tuvok will help you make arrangements.
CHAKOTAY: Some of the crew may not be comfortable helping to deliver eight men to their deaths.
JANEWAY: I can't say I like it either, but we have a Prime Directive to follow.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Thirty more seconds and I could have resolved the situation peacefully. Instead, you and Tuvok the Kid had to take matters into your own hands.
SEVEN: You're damaged.
EMH: Commander Tuvok's friendly fire must have caused a feedback surge in my emitters.
SEVEN: I'll help you repair it.
JANEWAY: How are you?
SEVEN: Fine, Captain.
IKO: You. This your ship?
JANEWAY: Yes.
IKO: Then let me out.
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I can't do that.
IKO: If you don't, I'll kill you all.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok. Are the prisoners' accommodations ready?
TUVOK (voiceover): Affirmative, Captain.
JANEWAY: Then by all means, initiate transport.

[Cargo Bay one]
YEDIQ: You're sure these will hold them?
TUVOK: The force fields are impenetrable, as are the tritanium bulkheads. In addition to your staff, two Voyager security officers will remain here at all times. Two more will be posted at the entrance to the cargo bay.
YEDIQ: What about our weapons?
TUVOK: You'll be allowed to carry them in this area only. If you leave the cargo bay, you'll be asked to surrender them.
YEDIQ: What's this?
NEELIX: Dinner. Since you can't bring the prisoners to the mess hall, I've brought the mess hall to them.
YEDIQ: What is it?
NEELIX: Talaxian spice stew served over leola rice pilaf. It's an old family recipe.
YEDIQ: Take it back.
NEELIX: Too spicy?
YEDIQ: These men don't deserve such an elaborate meal. Take it back.
NEELIX: Federation guidelines are quite clear about the treatment of prisoners.
TUVOK: He is correct.
NEELIX: I can quote the protocols if you like.
YEDIQ: My men will assist you.
JOLEG: Thanks for standing up to Yediq.
NEELIX: Just doing my job.
JOLEG: Still, it was kind.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: This would be easier if you would remain stationary.
EMH: It doesn't feel right.
SEVEN: You may experience unusual sensations while your matrix realigns.
EMH: I was referring to the arrangement the captain's made with the Nygeans. No matter how terrible the crimes these men committed, it seems wrong to hand them over to be executed. This is a Federation Starship, not the Barge of the Dead.
SEVEN: Would you have preferred the captain release them?
EMH: Of course not. They're dangerous men.
SEVEN: Executing them ensures they'll never pose a threat to anyone again.
EMH: So would life sentences, the operative word being life.
SEVEN: Confining them for life requires significant resources. The Nygeans may not think it worthwhile.
EMH: What about rehabilitation? Given the chance, some of these men might become productive members of society one day.
SEVEN: Their victims won't have the same opportunity.
EMH: And that justifies taking their lives? An eye for an eye? It's not justice, it's revenge. Quite frankly, I'm surprised you're not troubled by such a barbaric system.
SEVEN: I'm simply being objective. You often encourage me to see both sides of an argument.
EMH: Well, this is one occasion when my programming won't allow me to be objective. Killing is wrong, no matter who's doing it.

[Cargo Bay one]
JOLEG: Still hungry? I can hear your stomach from here. This must be the first time in a month you couldn't steal poor Egrid's meal.
JOLEG: Good, isn't it?
YEDIQ: Is there a problem?
JOLEG: Iko was just telling me he didn't get enough to eat.
YEDIQ: I see. Cause another disturbance, and I'll see to it you're not fed the rest of this journey. Do you understand?
IKO: Boche and Ledara.
YEDIQ: What did you say?
IKO: Your children.
YEDIQ: How did you know that?
IKO: Are you sure they're safe?
YEDIQ: Some people don't understand why we deal so harshly with men like you. It's because you never learn.
ANDREWS: Stand down. Stand down!
YEDIQ: He needs to be disciplined.
ANDREWS: Lower your weapons and step away.

[Ready room]
YEDIQ: Our response was justified.
JANEWAY: How do you justify beating a defenseless man?
YEDIQ: Violence is the only thing he understands.
JANEWAY: You seem to have a pretty good grasp of it yourself.
YEDIQ: Do not presume to tell me how to handle my prisoners, Captain. You don't know Iko like I do. He killed a young father for no reason. Before that, he committed dozens of violent crimes. He spent his entire life hurting people.
JANEWAY: That doesn't excuse what you did to him. Until your transport vessel gets here, you and your men won't be allowed in the cargo bay. You're in charge of the prisoners.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
YEDIQ: They're my responsibility.
JANEWAY: Not as long as you're aboard my ship. I won't risk any more violence.
YEDIQ: The only risk will be to your crew. Commander Tuvok isn't qualified to guard prisoners this dangerous.
JANEWAY: Tuvok has been a Starfleet Security officer for a very long time. Believe me, he's qualified.
YEDIQ: I hope you're right.

[Sickbay]
EMH: You remember Mister Iko.
SEVEN: Vividly.
EMH: The Nygeans decided to make an example of him.
SEVEN: Did you call me here to make a point about Nygean barbarity?
EMH: I called you here because I need your help to save his life. He sustained a severe blow to the head which has caused severe oedema in his parietal lobe. It's blocking vital neurotransmitters. I'd like to program some of your nanoprobes to bypass the oedema.
SEVEN: I'll comply.
EMH: I sense a but coming.
SEVEN: It seems inefficient to save the life of someone who's about to be executed.
EMH: If the Nygeans insist on killing him, there isn't much I can do about it. But I won't let them do it on Voyager.

[Cargo Bay one]
JOLEG: I didn't expect to see you back so soon. Ordinarily, we're lucky to get one meal a day.
NEELIX: That's terrible.
JOLEG: Yediq likes to keep us hungry.
PRISONER (voiceover): Less talk. We're hungry.
JOLEG: You're wondering why I'm here.
NEELIX: Excuse me?
JOLEG: You're wondering what I did to end up with men like them.
NEELIX: You killed someone.
JOLEG: That's right.
NEELIX: Why?
JOLEG: Because I'm Benkaran.
NEELIX: What does that have to do with it?
JOLEG: It's common knowledge that all Benkarans are criminals. So when I was found in the vicinity of a murder, I was immediately arrested.
NEELIX: Are you saying you didn't do it?
JOLEG: I told you, I'm Benkaran. What I say doesn't matter.

[Sickbay]
EMH: You suffered severe neurological trauma, but I believe we've repaired the damage.
IKO: Thank you.
EMH: Don't thank me, thank Seven of Nine. She donated the nanoprobes that saved your life.
IKO: Oh, my head.
EMH: The pain is normal. I'll prepare an analgesic.
IKO: You're not afraid of me.
SEVEN: There's no reason to fear someone in your condition.
IKO: You were never afraid of me. Not even when I tried to kill you. It's nice to look into someone's eyes and not see fear.

[Galley]
PARIS (voiceover): You have to be a criminal to get something to eat around here?
NEELIX: Sorry. Dinner will be ready in fifteen minutes.
TORRES: You said that fifteen minutes ago.
NEELIX: Did you know the Nygeans govern a sector of space occupied by several different humanoid species?
PARIS: If we say yes, will you feed us?
NEELIX: One of those species is the Benkarans. They occupy just ten percent of Nygean space, but take up nearly eighty percent of the space in Nygean prisons.
PARIS: Maybe they commit more crimes.
NEELIX: Not according to Joleg, one of the prisoners.
TORRES: You think he was given a harsher sentence because of his species?
NEELIX: According to this, Benkarans are ten times more likely to be executed for their crimes than Nygeans.
TORRES: Where'd you get that?
NEELIX: I contacted the Nygean government. Told them I was interested in a cultural exchange. Among other things, they let me access data on their criminal justice system. It all supports what Joleg told me.
PARIS: Neelix.
NEELIX: I know what you're thinking.
PARIS: That you're the softest touch in the Delta Quadrant.
NEELIX: These are the transcripts from Joleg's trial. He was convicted on circumstantial evidence.
PARIS: Let me guess. He was in the wrong place at the wrong time?
NEELIX: Apparently.
PARIS: Neelix, when I was in the Federation penal colony, everybody had a story. I never put much stock in them. Neither should you.
NEELIX: How many of those people were sentenced to die?

[Sickbay]
IKO: I still don't understand. Why weren't you hurt?
EMH: Because my matrix is photonic. I'm made of light.
SEVEN: You wanted to see me?
EMH: I'll be with you in just a moment.
IKO: You don't feel pain?
EMH: Well, I suppose my pride has been wounded on occasion.
IKO: I wish I was made of light.
EMH: Try to rest.
EMH: Mister Iko responded so well to the first dose of nanoprobes, I thought a second might improve his condition further. It'll only take a moment to extract them.
SEVEN: You and Mister Iko seem to be getting along well.
EMH: It's the strangest thing. When he first arrived he was crude, abusive. Now he's a model patient. Grateful, considerate.
SEVEN: He's obviously an unstable individual. Inconsistent behavior is hardly surprising.
EMH: Still, if it weren't for the security detail, I'd forget he was a criminal.
SEVEN: It's possible he's trying to manipulate you.
IKO: Doctor?
EMH: What's the matter?
IKO: My stomach.
EMH: I'm not detecting anything.
IKO: I, I can't.
EMH: What's wrong?
IKO: I can't stop thinking about the man I killed.
SEVEN: That's not surprising. You're experiencing guilt.
IKO: Is that why I'm feeling sick?
EMH: Nausea could be a symptom of guilt.
IKO: I've never felt guilty before.
SEVEN: You've committed many crimes.
IKO: None of them made me feel like this. Why did you do this to me?
SEVEN: We're not responsible for your guilt.
IKO: I didn't feel this way until you put those nanoprobes in me. You knew this would happen, didn't you? This is some kind of punishment. Take the nanoprobes out.
EMH: You could die.
IKO: Please. I don't want to feel this way anymore.

[Medical lab]
SEVEN: You don't honestly believe we're responsible for his condition.
EMH: We applied the Borg technology. It's possible there were some unforeseen side effects.
SEVEN: Guilt, for example.
EMH: Look at this.
SEVEN: What?
EMH: It's my most recent scan. The neurotransmitters have established new pathways throughout his cortex.
SEVEN: Wasn't that your intention?
EMH: No, I was simply trying to bypass the oedema.
SEVEN: Then how did this happen?
EMH: I don't know. It's possible this is normal Nygean brain activity, but I have no basis for comparison.
SEVEN: You should ask Mister Yediq to contact a Nygean medical official. Maybe they could provide some relevant information.

[Sickbay]
IKO: Seven of Nine. Stay and talk to me.
SEVEN: I'm extremely busy.
IKO: Please. I'm scared.
SEVEN: What did you want to discuss? I'm due in Astrometrics, so if there's
IKO: Astrometrics? What's that?
SEVEN: A laboratory where we observe stellar phenomena.
IKO: When I was a child, I'd lie under the stars for hours. I'd stare at them until I could see the shapes.
SEVEN: Shapes?
IKO: Faces and animals made out of stars.
SEVEN: You're referring to constellations.
IKO: I named them. There was Paedos the warrior, and Gezid the beast. No matter how hard he tried Paedos could never catch Gezid.
SEVEN: Because the distance between them always remained the same.
IKO: You've seen them?
SEVEN: Possibly. I've catalogd approximately six billion stars.
IKO: Then you must have seen Onella, too. The Mother.
SEVEN: Describe her.
IKO: She was surrounded by sixteen smaller stars. Her daughters. If I try, I think I can remember all their names.

[Cargo Bay one]
JOLEG: Eleven six, green.
PRISONER (voiceover): What's going on over there?
JOLEG: Kot-kot.
NEELIX: That's Kadis-kot. Congratulations.
PRISONER (voiceover): Down here.
NEELIX: I've been doing some research on the Nygean legal system. You were right about the Benkarans receiving harsher sentences. I saw the statistics.
JOLEG: The statistics won't save me.
NEELIX: I noticed some people convicted of murder, even terrible premeditated murders, weren't executed. Some aren't punished at all. But you were sentenced to death.
JOLEG: That's what the family wants.
NEELIX: The family?
JOLEG: After you're convicted, the family of the victim sentences you.
NEELIX: Well, shouldn't you be sentenced by someone less partial, like a judge?
JOLEG: Vekto valek k'vadim. It's ancient Nygean. It means Favor The Victims. What if I stole your game board? What right would a judge have to assign value to your loss? To him, it's just a game board, but to you it might be a priceless family possession. And what if I murdered your child?
NEELIX: I think I get your point.
JOLEG: Vekto valek k'vadim. It's the basis for the Nygean legal system.
NEELIX: What about the criminals that didn't serve any sentence at all?
JOLEG: Some people prefer restitution to revenge. If a defendant is wealthy enough, he can negotiate a settlement with the victim's family.
NEELIX: Oh, that doesn't seem fair.
JOLEG: It's perfectly fair, unless you're destitute.
NEELIX: Maybe I can talk to the captain about finding a way to compensate your victims.
JOLEG: I'm grateful. But it would imply I'm guilty. I wouldn't want that.
NEELIX: There must be something I can do.
JOLEG: You can transmit a letter to my brother. I'd like to let him know what's happened to me.
NEELIX: I'll get a PADD.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: I thought you might find this interesting.
IKO: What is it?
SEVEN: It's an Astrometrics log. It contains data on various star formations.
IKO: It's just words and numbers. I'd rather look at the stars.
SEVEN: I'll bring you a star chart after my next shift.
IKO: What's the metal above your eye?
SEVEN: It's a cybernetic implant.
IKO: Where did you get it?
SEVEN: It was installed by the Borg.
IKO: It must have hurt.
SEVEN: I don't recall.
IKO: I hurt people. I deserve to die.
EMH: Seven? I found something.

[Medical lab]
EMH: This is a scan depicting a healthy Nygean brain. This node is analogous to the human pineal gland. In addition to controlling behavioral impulses, it regulates decision making. You might say it's the physiological equivalent of a conscience.
SEVEN: Normally, the node connects to the rest of the brain through a series of neural pathways.
EMH: Now look at this scan of Iko's node before we applied the nanoprobes. It's detached.
JANEWAY: Did that happen when he was assaulted?
EMH: No, I believe it's congenital. A birth defect.
SEVEN: Without the node, Iko would have been prone to violence and sociopathic behavior all his life.
EMH: When I used Seven's nanoprobes to treat the injuries from the assault, it seems they inadvertently repaired the defect as well.
JANEWAY: You've activated his conscience. Well, that would explain why he's suddenly experiencing guilt.
EMH: There's more to it than that. I believe he's become capable of controlling his violent impulses.
JANEWAY: Capable maybe, but how do you know he will?
EMH: Even the thought of violence makes him ill now. In my opinion, he's no longer a threat to anyone.
SEVEN: By some definitions, Captain, he's not the same man who committed the murder.

[Briefing room]
YEDIQ: Are you suggesting we release him?
EMH: Of course not. But at the very least his case should be re-examined.
YEDIQ: Because he's sorry.
SEVEN: There's new medical evidence to be considered.
YEDIQ: None of it changes the fact that he killed a man.
SEVEN: He was suffering from a neurological defect. He couldn't control his behavior.
EMH: If Iko had been diagnosed and treated, he never would have committed that crime. In a matter of speaking, he's a victim of his own biology.
YEDIQ: So Iko is the victim now?
JANEWAY: No one's denying that he committed a terrible crime. But as a result of the Doctor's treatments he's undergone a fundamental change. Killing him won't accomplish anything.
YEDIQ: That's not your decision to make.
SEVEN: Nor is it yours.
YEDIQ: He's obviously deceiving you somehow.
JANEWAY: Listen, we could debate this all day but the fact is, our personal opinions are irrelevant. All that matters is Nygean law.
TUVOK: Does Iko have a legal means of appeal at his disposal?
YEDIQ: In accordance with Nygean penal code, a capital defendant has a right to appeal his sentence to the family of his victims.
JANEWAY: Then I'd like you to help Commander Tuvok draft an appeal and submit it to the proper authorities.

[Sickbay]
IKO: Take back the appeal.
SEVEN: You'd rather die because you think it'll relieve your pain.
IKO: Death is what I deserve. You say I've changed, but I look at these hands every day and I see them squeezing that man's throat. And I hear the sounds he made. I'm disgusting.
SEVEN: Do you think I'm disgusting?
IKO: You've been nothing but kind to me.
SEVEN: You asked me earlier if it hurt when my occipital implant was installed. I told you I didn't remember. But the truth is, it was one of the most painful experiences of my life.
IKO: Why did you lie?
SEVEN: It's difficult for me to talk about, because I forced others to undergo the same procedure.
IKO: Why?
SEVEN: I was compelled to do so by the Borg Collective. I wasn't in control of my actions, just as you weren't in control when you took a life. My nanoprobes have given you control. You're a different person now. You don't deserve to be executed.
IKO: I want to go back to my cell.
SEVEN: You're free to remain here.
IKO: Am I still sick?
SEVEN: No, but
IKO: Then I don't want special treatment.

[Cargo Bay one]
NEELIX: I'm glad to see you're feeling better. You must be hungry. Here you go.
IKO: Give it to him.
NEELIX: He's already had his dinner.
IKO: Please.
NEELIX: All right.

[Ready room]
SEVEN: You wanted to see me.
JANEWAY: We just received a response from the Nygeans. The family has refused to consider the appeal.
SEVEN: But the medical evidence
JANEWAY: They won't look at it.
YEDIQ: The family found the request insulting.
SEVEN: Your government could insist that they review it.
YEDIQ: We have laws that protect victims from emotional distress.
SEVEN: In that case, we should grant Iko asylum aboard Voyager.
YEDIQ: You agreed to work within the confines of our legal system.
SEVEN: Your system is flawed.
JANEWAY: That's enough, Seven. I assure you, we'll abide by the family's decision. Now I need a moment alone with Seven, if you don't mind.
JANEWAY: We did everything we could to help him.
SEVEN: We have to do more.
JANEWAY: You barely know this man. Why are you so passionate about helping him?
SEVEN: I want to give him the same opportunity you gave me. When you severed my link to the Collective, you changed who I was. You made it possible for me to reclaim my humanity. Because of my nanoprobes, Iko has undergone a similar change. He should be given the chance to atone for his crimes.
JANEWAY: Atonement. Is that what this is about?
SEVEN: Yes.
JANEWAY: For him, or for you?
SEVEN: I don't know what you mean.
JANEWAY: I think part of you still feels responsible for the violent acts you committed when you were a Borg.
SEVEN: You're mistaken.
JANEWAY: Am I? Maybe you believe if Iko is found not guilty, somehow you won't be guilty either. You said it yourself. You've reclaimed your humanity. It's time you stopped blaming yourself for the crimes of the Collective.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
CHAKOTAY: An alien vessel just dropped out of warp and opened fire.
KIM: We've lost power on decks eight through ten.
JANEWAY: The cargo bay.

[Cargo Bay one]
PRISONER: Follow me. Let's storm the bridge.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Shields down to sixty percent.
KIM: Still no response to hails.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers. Target their weapons.
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to bridge. The attacking ship is attempting to transport one of the prisoners.
KIM: They're trying to lock on to all five Benkaran life signs.
JANEWAY: Target their transporter array.
CHAKOTAY: Direct hit. They're retreating.
PARIS: Pursuit course?
JANEWAY: No. We have more immediate problems. Bridge to Tuvok. What's your status?

[Corridor]
TUVOK: We've neutralized two of the prisoners.

[Bridge]
KIM: Someone's trying to get into the shuttlebay.
JANEWAY: Lock them out.

[Outside the Shuttlebay]
JOLEG: Again.
YEDIQ: Stand back.
PRISONER: Don't move.
JOLEG: You have five minutes to get us a shuttle.
TUVOK: Tuvok to bridge. Lock on to Yediq's signature and beam him to
JANEWAY (voiceover): Transporters are offline. We need at least ten minutes to get them up and running.

[Cargo Bay one]
JOLEG: Seal it.
YEDIQ: You're not getting off this ship.
JOLEG: Then I suppose I should kill you right now.
IKO: Don't! He's mine. You saw how they beat me.
YEDIQ: I knew it was a trick. I knew you hadn't changed. Captain's log, supplemental. Warden Yediq has used his influence to convince the Nygean family to hear Iko's appeal for leniency.

[Bridge]
IKO: I won't beg for my life. It belongs to you. I only want you to understand what's happened to me. I'm a different person now. A better person. This crew has helped me to see that. If my death helps you find peace, I can accept it. But if you let me live, I will never hurt anyone again. Whatever you decide, please know how sorry I am for what I took from you.

[Cargo Bay one]
JOLEG: Are we playing Kadis-kot later?
NEELIX: Sorry.
JOLEG: Afraid I'll beat you again?
NEELIX: I tried to help you and you took advantage of me.
JOLEG: What do you mean?
NEELIX: The note we sent your brother. He traced the transmission to Voyager. He's the one who attacked us.
JOLEG: Neelix, I swear I had no idea he would do that. You have to believe me.
NEELIX: I read Yediq's security report. You threatened to kill him.
JOLEG: I can't eat this.
NEELIX: Why not?
JOLEG: I'm sick.
NEELIX: You look fine to me.
JOLEG: No, I must have the same condition Iko had. If your Doctor cures me, I can make an appeal for my life, too.

[Astrometrics lab]
IKO: She's beautiful, isn't she.
SEVEN: Onella the Mother.
IKO: And there's Paedos, still watching over her. It was kind of Captain Janeway to let you bring me here.
SEVEN: If your appeal is successful you'll be able to go wherever you want.
IKO: I hope you're right.
SEVEN: If I am, where will you go?
IKO: I don't know.
SEVEN: If you'd like, I could ask Captain Janeway to consider letting you stay here.
IKO: I'm not a scientist. I don't think I'd be much help to anyone.
SEVEN: There are other ways to be useful. I'm sure we could think of something.
IKO: I'd like that.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. The family has denied your appeal.
YEDIQ: We're due to rendezvous with a transport ship in a few hours. I need to return you to your cell.
IKO: You were the first person who wasn't afraid to look me in the eye. That's how I'd like to remember you.
JANEWAY: I just finished looking over your warp core analysis.
SEVEN: And?
JANEWAY: I'm impressed. It usually takes a few days to finish one of these. B'Elanna tells me you did it in twenty two hours.
SEVEN: I haven't felt the need to regenerate.
JANEWAY: Everyone grieves in their own way. If you want to talk, you know where to find me.
SEVEN: It's unfair.
JANEWAY: I think so too, Seven. But we have to try not to judge their system.
SEVEN: That's not what I meant. Iko was executed for taking a single life. As a drone I took thousands, but I was never punished.
JANEWAY: You lost twenty years of your life to the Borg. I'd say that's punishment enough.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
PARIS: A ship just decloaked off our port stern.
JANEWAY: Can you identify them?
KIM: They re-cloaked.
TUVOK: That disruptor blast had a Klingon signature.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers. Hail them.
TUVOK: No response. Port shields are down to fifty percent.
KIM: They've re-cloaked again. Tetryon readings indicate it's a D-Seven Class cruiser.
PARIS: D-Seven? They were retired decades ago.
TUVOK: If their technology is antiquated
CHAKOTAY: Perhaps a metaphasic scan might be able to penetrate their cloak.
JANEWAY: Do it.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Astrometrics.

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Initiate a metaphasic sweep.
SEVEN: I've detected a vessel. Transferring the trajectory to tactical.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I have them.
JANEWAY: Fire phasers.

[Klingon Bridge]
MORAK: Our cloak has failed.
KOHLAR: Divert emergency power to shields.
MORAK: Forward emitters are offline. The Federation ship is hailing again.
KOHLAR: Answer them.
T'GRETH: Captain!
KOHLAR: It may give us more time to get the cloak back on online. Visual.
JANEWAY (screen): This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager. Stand down.
KOHLAR: We will not surrender to sworn enemies

[Bridge]
KOHLAR (screen): Of the Klingon Empire.
JANEWAY: I think there's been a misunderstanding. The Empire signed a peace treaty with the Federation more than eighty years ago. If I'm not mistaken, it's still in effect.

[Klingon Bridge]
KOHLAR: You're lying.
JANEWAY (screen): I'm not lying. But even if I were your ship is no match for mine. I suggest we discuss this.
KOHLAR: What is there to talk about?

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: The treaty, for one thing. I'll give you access to our database show you I'm telling the truth.
KOHLAR (screen): Databases can be falsified.
JANEWAY: I have a Klingon serving aboard this ship.
KOHLAR (screen): Impossible.
JANEWAY: She's my Chief Engineer.
KOHLAR (screen): I will meet this Chief Engineer.
JANEWAY: We'd be honored to have you as our guest.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: You're safe here. You have my word.
KOHLAR: Forgive me if I don't find the word of a human very reassuring.
JANEWAY: I'd like to know what you're doing in the Delta Quadrant.
KOHLAR: I'm not answering any questions until I see the Klingon.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Captain Kohlar. Lieutenant Torres, our Chief Engineer.
KOHLAR: You're with child.
TORRES: That's what the Doctor tells me.
KOHLAR: Did you conceive during the holy month of Nay'Poq?
TORRES: I have no idea.
KOHLAR: It would have been fourteen or fifteen weeks ago.
TORRES: That sounds about right, not that it's any of your business.
KOHLAR: I must return to my ship.
TUVOK: Aren't you interested in learning about the Treaty?
CHAKOTAY: Here's a copy of the Khitomer Accords.
KOHLAR: I must return to my vessel.
JANEWAY: Not without your assurance that you won't fire on my ship again.
KOHLAR: You have my word.
JANEWAY: Escort Captain Kohlar back to the transporter room.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
TORRES: What the hell was that about?

[Klingon ship]
KOHLAR: It's the truth. T'GRETH?: How can you be certain?
KOHLAR: The scrolls say, you will find me after two warring houses make peace. Our people and the Federation, our greatest enem,y are at peace.
T'GRETH: So the humans claim. These Accords may be a deception.
KOHLAR: The other signs are present. You will know me before I know the world.
MORAK: The child is unborn. It does not know the world.
KOHLAR: You interpret the scrolls well.
T'GRETH: We must verify the evidence.
KOHLAR: Your skepticism darkens my heart, T'Greth. What evidence did our ancestors have when they began this journey? Nothing but their faith. Tell the others to prepare. The Day of Separation has arrived.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, the Klingon ship. Its core is breaching.
JANEWAY: Red alert. Hail them.
KOHLAR (screen): I salute you, Captain. You did more damage to our vessel than my engineer thought.
JANEWAY: We can send over a team to help you establish a containment field.
KOHLAR (screen): There isn't time.
KIM: He's right. Their core is going to breach in less than thirty seconds.
KOHLAR (screen): I'm requesting emergency transport.
TUVOK: Captain. Their crew complement is two hundred and four.
JANEWAY: Erect forcefields around the shuttlebay. Transport them there. Tell your crew to stand by for evacuation.
KIM: Ten seconds.
CHAKOTAY: If we're still too close when their core breaches
JANEWAY: Go to warp as soon as their crew is aboard.
KIM: Five, four, three.
TUVOK: We have them.

[Ready room]
KOHLAR: You spared us a dishonorable death.
TUVOK: Sensor logs indicate that the containment failure was not caused by our weapons.
JANEWAY: You activated a self-destruct sequence.
KOHLAR: It was the only way to get us aboard Voyager.
JANEWAY: Why was that so important?
KOHLAR: It's our sacred duty to be here.
JANEWAY: I don't understand.
KOHLAR: More than a hundred years ago, my great-grandfather was part of a sect which believed the Empire had lost its way. They discovered a sacred text. It told them to embark on a journey to a distant region of the galaxy.
JANEWAY: You've been traveling for four generations?
KOHLAR: My people have always known the voyage would be long and difficult, but the scrolls said we would be rewarded.
JANEWAY: How?
KOHLAR: We would find the Kuvah'Magh, the savior of our people. The one who will lead us to a new empire. The scrolls instruct us to follow her wherever she goes.
JANEWAY: What does any of this have to do with Voyager?
KOHLAR: I believe the Kuvah'Magh is the unborn child of B'Elanna Torres.

[Briefing room]
TORRES: You're joking.
JANEWAY: They take their beliefs very seriously.
PARIS: Seriously enough to destroy their own ship?
KIM: Couldn't they have just followed us?
JANEWAY: Apparently, their sacred text told them to cast off the old ways as soon as they found this Kuvah'Magh.
TUVOK: They saw their vessel as the last vestige of the corrupt Empire.
PARIS: I was hoping our daughter would be special, but I never dreamed she'd turn out to be the Klingon messiah.
TORRES: This isn't funny. They might be dangerous. I mean, what if they want to hurt the baby?
CHAKOTAY: To them, your baby's sacred. It's unlikely they would do anything to harm her.
TUVOK: Two hundred Klingons pose a significant security threat. I suggest we keep them confined to the shuttlebay until we can find a suitable home for them.
NEELIX: There are women and children down there. We can't just lock them up.
JANEWAY: I agree.
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: Assign extra security to every deck and make sure the Klingons know and abide by the rules.
TUVOK: The bridge will have to be off limits. Engineering as well.
JANEWAY: Keep them out of all restricted areas.
TUVOK: Despite their reverence for Lieutenant Torres, she should be assigned a twenty four hour security detail.
TORRES: Just what I need.
KIM: Where are they going to sleep?
NEELIX: We'll double up in quarters. I'll ask for volunteers.
JANEWAY: I know this isn't going to be easy, but until we can find another place for them, we should do our best to make them feel comfortable. Dismissed.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Captain, you must try the gagh.
JANEWAY: I'll pass, thank you. But I'm glad to see you're getting into the spirit of things.
NEELIX: Well, I've been studying the Klingon database. They're a fascinating people, very robust. And they certainly seem to appreciate my culinary skills.
JANEWAY: Looks like everything's running smoothly.
NEELIX: Ah, not quite everything. some of the Starfleet people have been complaining about the smell. Personally, I find it appealing. A kind of a musky aroma.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can adjust the environmental controls to filter out the musk.
CH'REGA: Thief! Touch my food again and I'll kill you.
KIM: Okay, everybody relax.
CH'REGA: He took gagh from my plate.
NEELIX: If you don't mind, Ensign, I've been studying Klingon etiquette. You shouldn't quarrel over food. Save your strength for battle, to fight those who would challenge you.
KIM: Take it easy.
KIM: That's enough!
CH'REGA: You have a fiery spirit. You will make a worthy mate.

[Tuvok's quarters]
NEELIX: What a day. I never met a more ravenous group in my life. I must have served over three hundred meals.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, may I ask what you're doing here?
NEELIX: We're bunkmates.
TUVOK: There must be some mistake.
NEELIX: No, there's no mistake. I gave up my quarters to a Klingon family. By the time I checked with Commander Chakotay, you were the only one who hadn't been paired up.
TUVOK: You should have consulted me.
NEELIX: We're such close friends, I knew you wouldn't mind.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, as much as I enjoy your company, I prefer solitude in my own quarters.
NEELIX: You don't really want me to go back there and tell that family to get out, do you? Good. Because I promise you we're going to have fun, Mister Vulcan. I learned some Klingon drinking songs. I'll teach them to you. 'ej HumtaH 'ej DechtaH 'Iw'ej Doq SodTah ghoSpa' Sqral bIQtiQ.

[Engineering]
PARIS (voiceover): Paris to Torres.
TORRES: I'm almost finished.
PARIS (voiceover): You said that an hour ago.
TORRES: I'll be there in a minute, I promise. Torres out. Keep an eye on the replicators, they've already gone down once today.

[Corridor]
KLINGONS: It's her.

[Torres-Paris' quarters]
PARIS: When you said be there in a minute, you weren't kidding.
TORRES: A group of Klingons ambushed me outside of Engineering. I decided transporting myself would be easier than running the gauntlet. I'm starting to feel like a prisoner.
PARIS: Well, at least you have a handsome cellmate.
TORRES: How long do you think they're going to be on board?
PARIS: I thought you'd be glad to have other Klingons around. You've always told me how uncomfortable it is being the only one.
TORRES: I guess I should be careful what I wish for.
PARIS: Maybe you should talk to some of them. Give them a chance.
PARIS: Come in.
TORRES: Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry to bother you, but I need your help. Ten of the Klingons have started a hunger strike. They say they won't eat until you agree to meet with their Council of Elders.
TORRES: That's ridiculous.
JANEWAY: Their faith is obviously very important to them.
TORRES: They think I'm something I'm not.
JANEWAY: Just talk to them. Hear what they have to say.
PARIS: We could be with these people for a while. You can't avoid them forever.
TORRES: I can try.
PARIS: If it'll make you feel any better, I'll go with you.

[Cargo bay]
KLINGONS: Mobar dohlomaj, kuvah'magh. Mobar dohlomaj, kuvah'magh. Mobar dohlomaj, kuvah'magh. Mobar dohlomaj, kuvah'magh. Mobar dohlomaj, kuvah'magh. Mobar dohlomaj, kuvah'magh. Mobar dohlomaj, kuvah'magh.
KOHLAR: You honor us with your presence.
T'GRETH: Look at her ridges. Morak was right. Your blood is not pure.
TORRES: No, my father was human.
T'GRETH: Couldn't you see this for yourself?
KOHLAR: Yes, but
T'GRETH: Why didn't you tell us?
KOHLAR: It wasn't important.
T'GRETH: Not important? We destroyed our ship because you said she was the mother of the Kuvah'Magh.
KOHLAR: Show me where it's written that the Kuvah'Magh must have pure Klingon blood.
T'GRETH: The Prophecy wouldn't lead us to a mongrel child.
PARIS: Hey, take it easy.
T'GRETH: Who are you?
PARIS: The father of that mongrel child.
T'GRETH: More human blood. Your Kuvah'Magh isn't even half-Klingon.
KOHLAR: I've spent my life interpreting the scroll,s and I say that all the signs of the Prophecy are here.
T'GRETH: Liar. You've led us to a false savior.

[Corridor]
TORRES: I told you this was a mistake.
KOHLAR: Lieutenant, I need your help.
TORRES: Any more help from me and you're going to have a holy war on your hands.
KOHLAR: That's what I'm trying to prevent.

[Briefing room]
TORRES: My baby's just a baby. She's not a savior.
KOHLAR: Perhaps you're right. But we must convince my people that she is.
JANEWAY: Why?
KOHLAR: We've traveled more than thirty thousand light years in search of this savior, and in more than one hundred years we've found nothing except hardship and isolation. When I saw Lieutenant Torres, that she was with child, I didn't know if I was looking at the mother of the Kuvah'Magh or not. But I did know I was looking at an opportunity to end this wasteful journey.
PARIS: Then you don't believe in the Prophecy?
KOHLAR: What I believe is that my people have suffered enough. If they accept your child as the Kuvah'Magh you'll hold great influence over them. We can find a suitable planet. You can tell them it's their new home and they'll follow you there.
TORRES: I'm not going to lie to them.
KOHLAR: What's the alternative? My people staying aboard your ship draining your resources?
JANEWAY: I agree with Lieutenant Torres. I'm not comfortable deceiving your people.
KOHLAR: Perhaps you won't have to lie to them to convince them.
TORRES: What are you suggesting?
KOHLAR: If you study the scrolls with me, we may be able to interpret them in way that appears consistent with the events of your life. Then we'll bring those consistencies to the attention of the Council.
PARIS: So you just want to stretch the truth a little.
KOHLAR: It is possible that the sacred scrolls were scrawled by a madman in a cave. Or perhaps they really were divinely inspired. Either way, they've guided us for over a century. If my people start to believe that the sacred scrolls have led them astray, there may be violence.
JANEWAY: Is that a threat?
KOHLAR: Merely a fact. You're doing everything you can to get your people home, Captain. That's all I'm doing for mine.

[Torres-Paris' quarters]
TORRES: It says the Kuvah'Magh will be descended from a noble house. I don't come from one and I'm pretty sure my husband doesn't, either.
KOHLAR: We all have nobility in our blood if we go back far enough.
TORRES: So these scrolls can mean anything you want them to.
KOHLAR: It is written that the mother of the Kuvah'Magh would be an off-worlder. Weren't you born on a Federation colony?
TORRES: A lot of Klingons are born off-world.
KOHLAR: It also says that you would have lived a life of solitude, and endured many hardships. That's accurate, isn't it?
TORRES: According to this, I'm supposed to have won a glorious victory against an army of ten thousand warriors.
KOHLAR: Haven't you?
TORRES: We haven't even encountered ten thousand warriors. Unless you include the Borg.
KOHLAR: Did you help destroy one of their vessels?
TORRES: I suppose.
KOHLAR: Couldn't that have been your glorious victory?
TORRES: I guess so.
KOHLAR: Where are the images of Kahless? Where is your family crest?
TORRES: They clashed with the carpet.
KOHLAR: Don't you honor any of your people's traditions?
TORRES: Not really.
KOHLAR: There is one tradition we can honor together.
TORRES: What are you doing?
KOHLAR: It's midday. Time to remember the sacrifice of our ancestors. Haven't you made a plea for the dead before?
TORRES: Not since I was a child.
KOHLAR: The dead can't rest in Sto-Vo-Kor if the living don't honor their memory. Perhaps there's someone I can honor on your behalf. Who did you plead for as a child?
TORRES: My grandmother.
KOHLAR: She was called?
TORRES: L'Naan.
KOHLAR: Kahless, we implore you to remember those warriors who have fallen in your name. Lift them out of the Cavern of Despair and reveal yourself to them in all your glory.
TORRES: Right, in all your glory.
KOHLAR: Remember Kolax, son of Amar. Remember Talij, daughter of K'Rene.
TORRES: Remember L'Naan, daughter of Krelik.

[Sickbay]
EMH: What happened to you?
KIM: I cut myself shaving.
EMH: Is that a bite mark?
KIM: One of the Klingons attacked me.
EMH: Did you do something to provoke him?
KIM: Not him, her. And she wasn't provoked. She was aroused.
EMH: Ah. I'm not surprised. I've studied the section on Klingon mating rituals in their cultural database.
KIM: Then maybe you can tell me how to convince a female twice my size that I'm not interested.
EMH: Hmm. You probably can't.
KIM: Great.
EMH: As I understand it, you have two options. Kill her, or mate with her. Since the first option is clearly unacceptable.
KIM: What's this?
EMH: Authorisation for you to engage in intimate relations with a member of an alien species. Be sure to get the Captain's approval as well. Chief Engineer's personal log, stardate 54518.2. I've spent the last two days reviewing the sacred scrolls in preparation for my appearance before the Klingon council. Kohlar also suggested I prepare a few colorful stories to help win them over.

[Mess hall]
TORRES: That's when they beamed aboard the Flyer, weapons firing. Tuvok and Neelix fought valiantly, but there were too many Hirogen. I had to face ten of their fiercest Hunters alone.
PARIS: Is that how you remember it?
TORRES: took them down two at a time, but they kept coming.
NEELIX: Exaggeration is part of Klingon custom. She's doing great.
TORRES: I had my phaser shot out of my hand, forcing me to take down the last Hunter in hand-to-hand combat. It was a glorious fight!
KOHLAR: Your ancestors would be honored.
T'GRETH: You tell a good story, but that's not why you're here. Some say you are the mother of the Kuvah'Magh, the one who will guide us to a new homeworld. Has your unborn child told you where it is?
TORRES: The scrolls say, you will follow in my footsteps before I have made them. Yesterday we changed course toward a planet very much like Kronos. So in a manner of speaking, you are now following my child to a new home.
T'GRETH: You deliver the words we want to hear, but it's Kohlar who gives them to you. Are you his puppet in the bedchamber as well?
PARIS: Watch it. That's my wife you're talking about.
T'GRETH: He speaks. I didn't think you had a tongue.
TORRES: Leave him out of this.
T'GRETH: You see how he hides behind his female? It is also written that the father of the Kuvah'Magh will be an honorable warrior. Would an honorable warrior ever refuse a challenge?
PARIS: I haven't refused any challenge.
T'GRETH: I haven't made one yet. You and I.
T'GRETH: To the death.
TORRES: Tom.
PARIS: Stay out of this.
KLINGON: PetaQ.
PARIS: I accept.

[Ready room]
PARIS: What was I supposed to say?
TORRES: How about no?
PARIS: They were all watching. There would have been a riot if I refused.
TORRES: So you're going to get yourself killed ?
PARIS: What makes you so sure I'd lose?
TORRES: Oh, please.
PARIS: Look, I have no intention of fighting anyone to the death, but wasn't the whole point of this to get them to believe that we are the parents of their savior?
TORRES: Captain, this has gone too far. You've got to put a stop to it.
JANEWAY: I intend to. Mister Tuvok.
JANEWAY: Gentlemen, I'm afraid Lieutenant Paris had no authority to accept this challenge. There will be no death matches aboard my ship.
T'GRETH: I told you this petaQ was not the true father.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Paris is perfectly willing to fight you, Mister T'Greth. I'm the one preventing him from doing so.
T'GRETH: The father of the Kuvah'Magh wouldn't let a woman speak for him.
KOHLAR: T'Greth, there is precedent for an honorable compromise. A non-lethal bout, fought with blunted bat'leths. The victory goes to the first warrior to knock his opponent to the ground three times.
T'GRETH: A coward's rules.
KOHLAR: Was the Emperor Mur'Eq a coward? He was the one who instituted these rules to insure that his warriors would kill their enemies and not each other.
JANEWAY: If you agree to these terms I'll allow the match.
T'GRETH: I'll see you on the field of battle.
TUVOK: I assume you have a suitable holodeck training program for this, Lieutenant?
KOHLAR: He'll be ready. I'll train him myself.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Hi.
KIM: Psst! Neelix!
NEELIX: Something wrong, Harry?
KIM: Shush. Have you seen her?
NEELIX: Who?
KIM: That Klingon woman. The one I got into a scrape with in the mess hall.
NEELIX: Officer Ch'Rega.
KIM: That's her.
NEELIX: I haven't seen her today.
KIM: She's been following me everywhere.
NEELIX: Why?
KIM: She wants to mate.
NEELIX: Oh! You're a lucky man. She's a fine specimen of Klingon womanhood.
KIM: I guess it's a matter of taste.
KIM: You never saw me.
NEELIX: Wait, I have a better idea.
KIM: Neelix, what the hell are you doing?
NEELIX: Play along. I'm taking her off your hands. When I say you're limited to two servings of brak't, that's all you get. Do you understand me, Ensign?
KIM: Yes, sir. Whatever you say.
NEELIX: I don't think you do. If I catch you eating more than your share again, I'll cut it out of your belly. Run.
KIM: Excuse me.
NEELIX: PetaQ!

[Holodeck - Arena]
NEELIX: I didn't think you approved of the competition.
EMH: I don't. I'm here in an official capacity.
NEELIX: Well, you do know they're fighting with non-lethal weapons?
EMH: You'd be surprised how much damage a blunt bat'leth can do.
KOHLAR: Warriors, assemble!
TORRES: Today would be a very bad day to die.
PARIS: I'll try to remember that.
KOHLAR: Let honor guide you. Tagh.
T'GRETH: I see fear in your eyes, human.
PARIS: The only Klingon I'm afraid of is my wife after she's worked a double shift.
KOHLAR: It's begun.
EMH: What are you talking about?
KOHLAR: He's dying.
EMH: Typically, I'm the one to make that kind of prognosis.
KOHLAR: It's the nehret. It kills all of us who aren't fortunate enough to die in battle.

[Sickbay]
EMH: It's a retrovirus that destroys the cells by attacking the cytoplasmic membranes.
JANEWAY: Shouldn't our bio-filters have detected it when we transported the Klingons aboard?
EMH: This is an insidious virus. It lies dormant, disguising itself as inert genetic material until it inexplicably activates.
KOHLAR: The nehret always comes without warning.
EMH: I've reviewed my scans of the other Klingons. They're all carriers.
JANEWAY: Why didn't you tell us your people had a disease?
KOHLAR: We've never thought of it as a disease. It's more like old age.
JANEWAY: Is it contagious?
EMH: Only to Klingons. If you'd give us some privacy, I'd like to examine Lieutenant Torres.
JANEWAY: Of course.
TORRES: The baby too?
EMH: I'm afraid so.
T'GRETH: Why am I here?
EMH: You're ill. You collapsed during the fight.
T'GRETH: The nehret.
TORRES: Yes. Thank you for telling us. Now my baby and I have it too.
EMH: Where do you think you're going?
T'GRETH: To prepare for my journey to Sto-Vo-Kor.
EMH: You should be in Sickbay.
T'GRETH: Can you make me well?
EMH: Not at the moment, but
T'GRETH: Then don't deny me my tradition.

[Cargo bay]
T'GRETH: The child is not the Kuvah'Magh.
MORAK: But the father accepted your challenge. He defeated you.
T'GRETH: I was defeated by the nehret. B'Elanna Torres and her child will fall victim to it as well.
MORAK: Impossible.
T'GRETH: They both carry it. She told me herself.
MORAK: But the scrolls say the Kuvah'Magh is younger than old age.
T'GRETH: And stronger than sickness. She cannot be our savior. We should resume our search.
MORAK: Kohlar and many of the others won't agree.
T'GRETH: Then we must act alone for the good of our people.
MORAK: How?
T'GRETH: We'll wait for the right moment, and when it comes we'll seize Voyager.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: We've identified two potential colony sites in the southern hemisphere.
KOHLAR: We'll require topographical scans.
SEVEN: I'll prepare them.
T'GRETH: I shouldn't have doubted you. It appears the signs were there all along. I'll join the survey mission.
KOHLAR: You're ill, old friend. You should remain here.
T'GRETH: I want my final days to be spent in honorable pursuits. Don't ask me to die inside these walls.
KOHLAR: We transport in one hour.

[Transporter room]
MORAK: Your transporters are much more sophisticated than ours.
KIM: I've studied Klingon transport systems. The basic technology isn't all that different.
MORAK: But you were able to beam our entire crew aboard Voyager at one time.
KIM: We usually don't like to do that for safety reasons, but in a pinch we can expand the buffer capacity.
MORAK: These are the targeting scanners?
KIM: Exactly. They work on the same principles as yours.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: You said it was urgent?
EMH: I need to conduct a more detailed bio-scan of your baby.
TORRES: She's not sick, is she?
EMH: No. But I may be on to something.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: I'll be leading the team going to site A, Kohlar will be in charge of the site B team.

[Transporter room]
KIM: Good morning, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Harry.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Phaser fire in transporter room one.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Chakotay.

[Transporter room]
MORAK: They're on the surface.
T'GRETH: Now lock on to the bridge officers.
MORAK: They've activated a forcefield around deck one.
T'GRETH: Transport the rest of their crew.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Captain, I'm detecting multiple transports. Some of our people are being beamed down to the surface.
JANEWAY: Cut power to the transporters.
PARIS: I can't.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. B'Elanna, respond.
PARIS: There's no one in Engineering.

[Transporter room]
T'GRETH: The bridge officers?
MORAK: I still can't get a lock.
T'GRETH: Can you transport us there?
MORAK: I'll try.

[Outside transporter room]
TUVOK: Computer, open the transporter room doors. Security override, Tuvok pi alpha.

[Bridge]
T'GRETH: Grant me a warrior's death, I beg of you.
JANEWAY: Sorry. No mercy killings on my bridge. Get our people back.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

[Sickbay]
T'GRETH: Why am I not in Sto-Vo-Kor?
EMH: Because you are healthy as a targ.
T'GRETH: The nehret?
EMH: Gone.
KOHLAR: We have B'Elanna Torres's child to thank for it.
EMH: The fetus has hybrid stem cells. They contain Klingon and human DNA. I used them to synthesize an antivirus.
T'GRETH: The child cured me?
EMH: Well, I was the one who devised the treatment
JANEWAY: Doctor.
EMH: Yes, of course. The child cured you.
KOHLAR: The Kuvah'Magh has healed all of us. She truly is our savior. Captain's log, stardate 54529.8. While we're helping the Klingons into their new home, life aboard Voyager is gradually returning to normal.

[Outside Tuvok's quarters]
TUVOK: Computer, open this door.
COMPUTER: Access to these quarters has been restricted.
TUVOK: On whose authority?
COMPUTER: Neelix.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, open this door.
NEELIX (voiceover): I'll be there in a minute, Commander. That's, that's my boot.
TUVOK: Computer, security override. Authorisation: Tuvok pi
NEELIX: Goodbye, my little par'machkai.
CH'REGA: Goodbye, my fearless warrior.
NEELIX: I'm really going to miss her.

[Tuvok's quarters]
NEELIX: Oh. Don't you worry, Mister Vulcan. I'll have this place shipshape in no time at all.
TUVOK: Just go, Mister Neelix.

[Transporter room]
TORRES: What's this?
KOHLAR: The bat'leth given to me by my great-grandfather. It's for your daughter. I hope someday you'll tell her about us.
TORRES: I will.
KOHLAR: Qapla', B'Elanna Torres.
TORRES: Qapla'.

[Torres - Paris' quarters]
PARIS: It doesn't seem right just to hang it on the wall.
TORRES: I'm not letting you scratch it up on the holodeck.
PARIS: I'm sure our daughter wouldn't mind lending it to the old man every now and then. You know, this is one special kid we're going to have.
TORRES: You're just figuring that out?
PARIS: I was hoping for an artist, or maybe a musician, but she's already the savior of an entire race.
TORRES: You don't really believe that.
PARIS: I don't know. There are a lot of coincidences to explain. I mean, what were the odds that they'd run into the one ship in the whole quadrant with a Klingon aboard?
TORRES: Probably about the same odds that you and I would get married.
PARIS: Maybe we should name her Kuvah'Magh, just to be safe.
TORRES: Put it on the list.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: For our third course, luhvian quail in truffle sauce, served with roasted chadre kab.
JANEWAY: My compliments to the chef.
ALL: Hear, hear.
SEVEN: Thank you, Captain.
TORRES: Cream of leola soup, fettran risotto, luhvian quail. It just keeps getting better.
JANEWAY: I knew you'd been expanding your palate, but I didn't realize you'd become a gourmet cook.
SEVEN: Preparing meals myself is the best way to ensure quality.
NEELIX: I suppose I should be insulted but everything is so delicious I may just have to admit defeat and hang up my apron.
PARIS: No, that'd be a real tragedy, Neelix.
NEELIX: Pinot noir, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: I'll have another glass of the Chardonnay.
SEVEN: Each course has been paired with a specific wine. Substitutions are not recommended.
CHAKOTAY: The Pinot noir sounds perfect.
PARIS: Is there any salt?
SEVEN: Additional seasoning is not required.
PARIS: I'm sorry, I just
SEVEN: If the quail hasn't been prepared to your satisfaction, I could replicate something more to your liking. A peanut butter and jelly sandwich, perhaps.
PARIS: Actually, it's delicious just the way it is.
JANEWAY: Captain to the bridge. Report.
TUVOK (voiceover): We're being

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Pulled off course.
JANEWAY (voiceover): How?
TUVOK: I'm not certain. It appears to be some kind of graviton surge.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: On my way.

[Bridge]
KIM: We've rerouted all available power to the thrusters but we can't break free.
JANEWAY: Try reversing the shield polarity.
TUVOK: No effect.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: What happened to the stars?

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Shields at sixty five percent.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
KIM: They're not responding.
JANEWAY: Return fire. Can you identify them?
CHAKOTAY: Their weapon signature is Vaadwaur, but the ship has technology from several different species.
SEVEN: There's another vessel approaching. It's charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Evasive pattern beta six.
PARIS: Maybe we've got an ally?
TUVOK: The Vaadwaur ship is retreating.
JANEWAY: Hail the second ship.
KIM: No response.
PARIS: I stand corrected.
TUVOK: They've penetrated our aft shields.
JANEWAY: Reroute power to the auxiliary emitters and return fire.
CHAKOTAY: They've transported material off decks five, seven and eight.
JANEWAY: Disable their engines.
JANEWAY: Follow them.
PARIS: Navigational sensors are malfunctioning. It's something to do with this environment.
JANEWAY: I want a full damage report and an inventory of everything that was taken off this ship. And I want to know where we are.
CHAKOTAY: They got more than ninety percent of our food stores, including almost everything in the Airponics bay. They also got a computer console from Engineering and they emptied three of our deuterium tanks.
PARIS: Why would anyone steal deuterium? You can find it anywhere.
SEVEN: Apparently not here. I'm not detecting any gasses, stellar bodies, or matter of any kind.
JANEWAY: Except for the ships that attacked us. Scan for other vessels. I want to know how many we're dealing with.
TUVOK: There are more than one hundred fifty ships within scanning range. But I'm only detecting lifesigns on twenty nine of them.
KIM: Captain, there's another vessel approaching at high impulse.
PARIS: Quite a welcoming committee they've got here.
JANEWAY: What's the status of our shields?
TUVOK: They're at twenty eight percent.
JANEWAY: That'll have to do. Charge weapons.
KIM: Captain, this one wants to talk.
JANEWAY: On screen. I'm Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager.
VALEN (screen): General Valen. Welcome to the Void.
JANEWAY: You're the first ship we've seen here that hasn't tried to fire on us. But in case you change your mind, we're prepared to defend ourselves.
VALEN (screen): I know. I've been observing you on sensors. The way you fought those ships was impressive. Most vessels don't survive the first few minutes.
JANEWAY: I'd appreciate any information you could give us about where we are.

[Briefing room]
VALEN: The anomaly's a closed structure, encased by an inert layer of subspace. Matter and energy can't penetrate it.
JANEWAY: Our ships certainly penetrated it when we were pulled in.
VALEN: By the funnels. But they only pull matter in one direction. Into the void.
TUVOK: Have you explored the entire anomaly?
VALEN: There's nothing to explore, but it's big. We've calculated the outer circumference at approximately nine light years, but we've never been able to breech it.
PARIS: How long have you been here?
VALEN: More than five years.
JANEWAY: There must be a way to escape.
VALEN: New arrivals are always thinking about escape.
JANEWAY: We have a sophisticated starship. Maybe if we work together we can find a way out.
VALEN: You're being naive. No one ever gets out.
SEVEN: We may be able to devise a new approach.
VALEN: Many have tried. All they did was waste resources that could have kept them alive longer. Don't be foolish. I can help you.
CHAKOTAY: How?
VALEN: The only source of food and energy in the Void comes from new ships that are drawn in. If you want to survive here, you'll have to compete for their resources.
JANEWAY: And I suppose you can help us do that?
VALEN: I have tactical data on some of the more dangerous predators.
JANEWAY: But you want something in return.
VALEN: My scans show you have photon torpedoes.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, we don't trade weapons.
VALEN: Why not?
JANEWAY: Because we have no way of knowing what they'll be used for. Plundering innocent ships, for example.
VALEN: Wait a few weeks until your resources start to run out. Morality won't keep your life support systems running.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, General. There are some compromises I won't make.
VALEN: Not yet.

[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Report, Lieutenant.
TORRES: We're using power at almost ten times the usual rate.
CHAKOTAY: While we're standing still?
TORRES: The same graviton forces that pulled us into the anomaly seem to be draining the warp core. At this rate, our deuterium will be gone in about ten days.
JANEWAY: Shut down all non-essential systems.
CHAKOTAY: Where are you going?
JANEWAY: To find a way out of here.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Using fractal algorithms with the Borg sensors I believe I can predict where and when these funnels will occur.
PARIS: Well, that's impressive, but how does it help us?
SEVEN: The funnels originate inside the anomaly, creating massive graviton forces before they erupt. If we were to enter one of the funnels just as that happened we might be able to use those forces to propel us into normal space.
JANEWAY: Not without compromising structural integrity.
TUVOK: I might be able to reinforce the shields to compensate.
SEVEN: There's another problem. When the graviton forces reach critical levels, the polarity suddenly reverses, pulling everything near the funnel back into the anomaly.
PARIS: We'd have to jump to warp at exactly the right moment.
SEVEN: We'd need to achieve a velocity of warp eight point two.
PARIS: Question is, will we have enough power?
JANEWAY: At the rate we're losing it, we may only get one shot at this. The sooner we try, the better.

[Bridge]
SEVEN: There's a funnel forming seventy thousand meters off the port bow. Bearing one three zero mark two four.
KIM: Graviton surge in thirty four seconds.
JANEWAY: Full power to shields and structural integrity. Take us in, Mister Paris.
SEVEN: Five seconds. Four, three.
TUVOK: Structural integrity at twenty percent. Ten percent.
PARIS: Fifty thousand kilometers to normal space.
JANEWAY: Prepare to go to warp.
TORRES (voiceover): Engineering to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.

[Engineering]
TORRES: The warp core is offline.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: If nothing else, we learned some things that'll help us next time.
PARIS: With all due respect Captain, we don't even have warp drive anymore.
TORRES: I may be able to get it back online, but we still need deuterium to get our basic systems running.
CHAKOTAY: How long will our reserves last?
TORRES: If we shut down life support on all but a few decks, deactivate Astrometrics, turbolifts, ration replicator use, maybe a week.
NEELIX: I used to make a living scavenging for supplies. Let me take one of the shuttles. I might be able to find deuterium on one of those abandoned ships.
TUVOK: The shuttle would be too easy a target.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the offer, Neelix, but we're safer if we stay together.
SEVEN: The shuttles may be useful in another capacity.
JANEWAY: We could use their warp cores to augment power on Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: We're still going to need more deuterium.
JANEWAY: Let's track down the ship that raided us and get back what they stole.
TUVOK: We should do it quickly. I've detected a number of vessels monitoring us.
PARIS: The vultures are circling.
JANEWAY: Vultures eat the dead, Mister Paris. We're not dead yet.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: The vessel's in visual range.
JANEWAY: Shields. On screen.
KIM: Looks like somebody got to them before we did.
TUVOK: No lifesigns.
JANEWAY: Scan for ion trails. Whoever did this probably has our deuterium.
TUVOK: Aye, Captain.
CHAKOTAY: Is there anything left aboard that ship worth salvaging?
KIM: Their technology and supplies have been picked clean.
SEVEN: Not everything of value has been taken. The warp core has been removed, but the casing that protected it is intact. It's composed of tricesium.
KIM: We can convert it into a power source.
JANEWAY: Every little bit helps. Lock onto the core casing and beam it to the cargo bay.

[Cargo bay]
SEVEN: With the additional power we could reactivate the Astrometrics lab.
TORRES: I can think of some better uses.
SEVEN: For example?
TORRES: Oh, I don't know. Making sure there's air to breathe. This must be where they cut through the casing to remove the core.
SEVEN: Crude but effective.
TORRES: Something's in there.
SEVEN: Identify yourself.
TORRES: Torres to Security. Intruder alert.
TUVOK: Acknowledged.
SEVEN: There.
TORRES: Stay where you are.
SEVEN: He appears to be injured.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: How is he?
EMH: His injury doesn't seem serious, but he won't let me close enough to treat him.
JANEWAY: My name's Captain Janeway. You're safe here.
EMH: I've tried communicating with him. He doesn't appear to have any verbal skills.
JANEWAY: Do we know how he got on board?
SEVEN: I believe he was transported along with the core casing.
JANEWAY: We should have picked up his lifesigns.
SEVEN: We're trying to determine why we didn't detect him.
JANEWAY: That vessel he was on had no atmosphere. How did he survive?
EMH: My scans show he can conserve oxygen. He has unusually large lung capacity. And a voracious appetite.
JANEWAY: Do you think that ship was his home?
EMH: Maybe. But we can't send him back. He can't survive without oxygen indefinitely.
JANEWAY: We'll run scans for other members of his species. But until we can find a safe place for him, let's make him as comfortable as possible.
SEVEN: Computer, replicate a portion of nutritional supplements from my daily allotment.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: You found something?
TUVOK: We think we know who has our deuterium.
KIM: It's someone we've already met.

[Bridge]
VALEN (screen): I knew I'd see you again, Captain. I expect you've reconsidered my proposal.
JANEWAY: We're not here to trade. We're here to take back what belongs to us.
VALEN (screen): I don't know what you mean.
CHAKOTAY: Our scans indicate you've got some of our food, one of our consoles and a large quantity of our deuterium.
VALEN (screen): We didn't take any of that from you.
JANEWAY: No. Apparently you killed the crew of another ship and took it from them. We want it back.
VALEN (screen): That's not the way things work here.
JANEWAY: Either you give it back, or we'll take it.
PARIS: He's powering his engines.
JANEWAY: Target his shields and fire. Lock onto whatever belongs to us and transport it to the cargo bay.
SEVEN: I'm detecting large quantities of food on his supply deck.
PARIS: Maybe we should take it while we have the chance.
JANEWAY: Is it ours?
SEVEN: No, but our own reserves are running out.
PARIS: Valen wouldn't hesitate to take it from us.
JANEWAY: No, he wouldn't. We've got what's ours. Reverse course.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
CHAKOTAY: An updated inventory of our supplies. We got back less than half of what was stolen.
JANEWAY: Doesn't take two of you to deliver a PADD. What's on your mind?
CHAKOTAY: We want to be clear about what our policy's going to be while we're here in the Void.
JANEWAY: You think we should have taken Valen's food.
TUVOK: Logic suggests we may have to be more opportunistic if we intend to survive.
CHAKOTAY: We may not like Valen's tactics, but he and his crew are still alive after five years in here.
JANEWAY: I was thinking about that myself. I thought maybe I could get some guidance from the Federation Charter. I was hoping I'd find a loophole that would allow us to take actions we ordinarily wouldn't take.
CHAKOTAY: Any luck?
JANEWAY: The Charter's a statement of principles, not a practical document.
CHAKOTAY: No section on how to exist in a Void.
JANEWAY: No. But I've become convinced that we've got to stick to our principles, not abandon them.
CHAKOTAY: Should the crew be ready to die for those principles?
JANEWAY: If the alternative means becoming thieves and killers ourselves, yes. But I'm betting that our principles are going to keep us alive.
TUVOK: Captain?
JANEWAY: The Federation is based on mutual cooperation. The idea that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. Voyager can't survive here alone. But if we form a temporary alliance with other ships, maybe we can pool our resources and escape.
TUVOK: As you've pointed out, the people we've encountered in this void are thieves and killers. Such individuals are hardly ideal allies.
JANEWAY: I agree.
CHAKOTAY: Then who are we going to form an alliance with?
JANEWAY: Anyone who agrees to play by our rules. No killing, no stealing, and no giving up.
TUVOK: Forgive me, Captain, but why would anyone who has survived by killing and stealing suddenly agree to those terms?
JANEWAY: We'll offer to share our food and medical supplies, and defend ships that are attacked by raiders.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, maybe you'd better take another look at that inventory. Our food and power reserves will be gone within a week. If we start giving everything away
JANEWAY: Maybe we'll only survive for two days instead of seven. On the other hand, if we share what we have instead of hoarding it, we might find other people willing to do the same. If we combine our technology, we can find ways of improving our situation, and ultimately get the hell out of this place. We may lose a little weight, gentlemen, but we won't lose who we are.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 54553.4. For the past several days, we've been making every effort to recruit members into an alliance, but it hasn't been easy.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Whenever a new ship gets pulled into the Void they're immediately attacked. Instead of attacking it, you'd have to help defend the new ship.
GARON: And how is that in my interest?
JANEWAY: It would encourage them to join our alliance.
GARON: And if they refuse, then we raid them?
TUVOK: Everyone in the Alliance must agree not to launch unprovoked attacks.
GARON: Then how are we supposed to get supplies?
CHAKOTAY: The idea is to recruit new members, share technology and resources.
JANEWAY: We almost escaped the Void on our own. If we work together, I believe we'll succeed.
GARON: How many ships do you have in this Alliance?
JANEWAY: You'd be the first.
NEELIX: Technically, Captain, that's not correct. I consider myself the first member of the Captain's coalition. Six years ago, I offered her my services and the resources of my ship, and she's never failed to help me when I needed her.
GARON: It's a noble idea, Captain, but good intentions are like deuterium reserves. They tend to get lost in the Void.
JANEWAY: All I ask is that you consider our proposal.
GARON: I will.
JANEWAY: In the meantime, we'd like to offer you food and medical supplies.
GARON: What do you expect in return?
JANEWAY: Nothing. Compliments of the Alliance.
NEELIX: I tried.

[Corridor]
SEVEN: Captain, there's been a theft.
JANEWAY: What's missing?
SEVEN: My phase compensator. No doubt it was stolen by one of your prospective members.
JANEWAY: It wasn't stolen. I gave it to the Nygeans. They needed it to repair their sensor array.
SEVEN: I presume you obtained something equally valuable in return.
JANEWAY: I think I did. The goodwill of a potential ally.
SEVEN: Did they join?
JANEWAY: Not yet.
SEVEN: Captain.
JANEWAY: I know. It's not exactly the most efficient policy. But then you don't always do what's most efficient either.
SEVEN: I don't know what you're implying.
JANEWAY: You gave up your rations to our guest in Sickbay.
SEVEN: He needed food.
JANEWAY: You're a valuable member of this crew. Your friend in Sickbay is nothing but a drain on resources. What's efficient about wasting food on him? You think I'm being inefficient, Tuvok thinks I'm being illogical. You both could be right. But maybe the best way to get help is to give it. Oh, and Seven?
SEVEN: Yes?
JANEWAY: I'm sorry I gave away your favorite phase compensator.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: How is he?
EMH: Much better. He seemed to relax when he heard me humming an aria from Rigoletto, so I had the computer play the full orchestral version. Fantome seems to be a music lover.
SEVEN: Fantome?
EMH: After the Phantom of the Opera, a tormented character who was soothed by music.
SEVEN: In six years you haven't chosen a name for yourself, but you've given Fantome one in a few days.
EMH: Choosing the right name for myself is extremely difficult. I'm a complex individual.
SEVEN: And Fantome isn't?
EMH: On the contrary. I believe he's quite intelligent, and his physiology is very sophisticated. Did you know he has the ability to refract his own lifesigns?
SEVEN: That would explain why our sensors didn't detect him.
EMH: I wish we could find a way to communicate with him. I suspect he'd have a lot to tell us.
EMH: We were enjoying that.
SEVEN: Exactly. He may not be able to speak but he can hear.
EMH: He understands.
SEVEN: So it would seem.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: What's the occasion?
NEELIX: Seven's not the only one who knows how to set an elegant table.
TORRES: You have heard there is a food shortage?
NEELIX: That's no reason why you two can't enjoy a romantic dinner. Unfortunately, I can't light this. It would be a waste of oxygen. Still, it is festive.
TORRES: We appreciate the effort.
PARIS: I believe there's been a mistake here, waiter. I didn't order this.
NEELIX: Close your eyes and pretend that it's Seven's fettran risotto.
PARIS: It tastes more like chicken.
TORRES: What's this?
NEELIX: A preserved olian guava. I had a few left.
TORRES: Neelix.
NEELIX: No arguments. You're eating for two.
TUVOK (voiceover): Senior officers report to stations immediately.
PARIS: Sorry, Neelix.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Charge weapons. Shields to full.
PARIS: What's going on?
CHAKOTAY: A funnel just opened. It pulled in a new vessel.
TUVOK: Two warships are approaching it. One of them is Valen's.
JANEWAY: Target Valen's weapons, and hail him.
VALEN (screen): My fight's not with you, Captain.
JANEWAY: Then stand down.
VALEN (screen): This new ship has impressive technology. We can share it.
JANEWAY: I'm not here to divide the spoils.
VALEN (screen): Then why are you here?
JANEWAY: To protect the ship you're firing on.
VALEN (screen): What are they to you?
JANEWAY: Just some people in a bad situation, like the rest of us.
VALEN (screen): Save your speeches. I've got a crew to feed.
CHAKOTAY: He's targeting our shields.
JANEWAY: Take his weapons out. Hail the new ship.
LOQUAR (screen): I surrender.
JANEWAY: We're here to help you. Can you target the smaller warship?
LOQUAR (screen): We're a survey vessel. We're not equipped to fight.
TUVOK: Shields at sixty percent
JANEWAY: Fire torpedoes.
TUVOK: Shields on Valen's lead ship are holding at eighty percent. It appears he's upgraded them since we last met.
JANEWAY: Ours?
TUVOK: Thirty.
PARIS: The smaller ship is outmaneuvering us.
KIM: We have hull breeches on decks five and six.
JANEWAY: Seal them.
TUVOK: Shields at fifteen percent
TORRES (voiceover): Engineering to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.

[Engineering]
TORRES: We're losing containment. At this rate, we'll be dead in the water in less than three minutes.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: We should retreat, Captain.
JANEWAY: Not yet.
PARIS: You might want to reconsider. There's another ship approaching.
CHAKOTAY: We can't defend ourselves against three ships.
TUVOK: We may not have to. The third vessel belongs to Mister Garon. He's firing at the other two. Valen's shields are down. The smaller ship is leaking plasma.
PARIS: They're both retreating.
KIM: Garon's hailing.
JANEWAY: Get a weapons lock on him. We've been fooled by unexpected allies before.
GARON (screen): Why are you targeting me?
JANEWAY: Because I don't know what your intentions are.
GARON (screen): Haven't I just made them clear? I've decided to accept your offer.
JANEWAY: Well, in that case, welcome to the Alliance. Captain's log, stardate 54562.7. Since Garon and the survey ship became our charter members, finding new allies has gotten a little easier. My latest prospect is Commander Bosaal, whose ship has technology that could help us escape.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Neelix, we have another guest for dinner.
NEELIX: Always room for one more, Captain.
BOSAAL: Who did you raid to get fresh vegetables?
JANEWAY: They're replicated. One of the crews that joined us had technology that tripled our replicator efficiency.
NEELIX: It may not be a gourmet feast, but we can feed five hundred people a day now, using half the power it took us a few days ago.
JANEWAY: Why don't we sit down?

[Corridor]
TUVOK: Doctor.
EMH: Hello, Commander.
TUVOK: How's your patient?
EMH: Technically, he's not a patient anymore, but it's taken me this long to coax him out of Sickbay. He's quite shy. (The EMH plays notes on a PADD.)
EMH: I'm telling him not to worry, that you're the one who keeps us all safe.
EMH: He says thank you.
TUVOK: An ingenious method of communication.
EMH: It began with a few simple words, but now we're capable of rudimentary conversation.
TUVOK: Tell him I'm pleased he's feeling better.
EMH: I will.

[Mess hall]
BOSAAL: What's that parasite doing aboard your ship?
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon?
BOSAAL: They're vermin.
EMH: I don't know who you are, sir, but your choice of words is offensive.
BOSAAL: What is offensive is the way they slip aboard during transport, hide in conduits, steal food, spread disease.
EMH: Fantome is perfectly healthy, and unlike some people in this Void, he hasn't stolen anything.
BOSAAL: If my sensors could detect where they are on my ship, I'd exterminate them. I suggest you do the same.
EMH: Captain, this is outrageous!
JANEWAY: Doctor! One of the principles of our Alliance is that we don't discriminate. Everyone's welcome as long as they follow the rules. But if you're having a bad experience with the members of this species on your ship, I'd be happy to bring them to Voyager.
BOSAAL: If you could find them.
JANEWAY: Now that we've had a chance to analyze Fantome's physiology, I think we can get a transporter lock on them.
BOSAAL: Is this your way of enticing me to join your Alliance?
JANEWAY: I'm simply trying to demonstrate how cooperation and tolerance can benefit everyone.
BOSAAL: Then we have an agreement.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Okay, now connect the primary emitter relay.
GALEN: Online.
JANEWAY: How's it coming?
TORRES: Pretty well. We just need to
TORRES: I guess I was being a little optimistic.
JANEWAY: What's the problem, exactly?
GALEN: We think we can establish a shield bubble large enough to encompass all our ships, but we have no way to compensate for the graviton stress.
JANEWAY: Wouldn't a polaron modulator be able to do that?
TORRES: Unfortunately, nobody in the Alliance has one. We've been trying to build our own, but so far
JANEWAY: Maybe we could trade for one, or find

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY (screen): A new ally who has one.
GARON (screen): It's not a common piece of technology and it's valuable. It may be difficult to convince anyone to part with it.
JANEWAY (screen): You never know unless you ask.
TUVOK: You are not authorized to be in here.
LOQUAR: We're making a valuable contribution to the Alliance.
TUVOK: By spying on restricted meetings?
LOQUAR: We've devised a new surveillance technique.
JANEWAY (screen): Ask Harry to give you a hand.
TUVOK: You've bypassed my security measures.
LOQUAR: We can observe activity on any ship in the Void without being detected. This is the cargo hold of the Jelinian freighter. Now, if I'm not mistaken, the Jelinians are a member of our Alliance.
TUVOK: Which is why you shouldn't be spying on them.
LOQUAR: And why they shouldn't be hoarding their ale.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Lovely piece. Did they compose it or did you?
EMH: They did. Though strictly speaking, it's not a composition. It's more of a conversation.
JANEWAY: I'm impressed.
EMH: I wish I could take credit but it was Fantome who taught the others in a fraction of the time it took him to learn. They're a highly intelligent species.
SEVEN: The language is already developing its own grammar and syntax.
JANEWAY: That suggests they have a language of their own.
EMH: Mmm hmm. It could be telepathic, but they seem just as comfortable communicating with music now.
JANEWAY: Could their species be native to the Void?
EMH: It's certainly possible. They told us they were born here.
JANEWAY: Just when you think nothing in the galaxy can surprise you anymore.
TORRES (voiceover): Captain Janeway, please report to Engineering.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Just what we needed, Captain. A fully compatible polaron modulator.
JANEWAY: Where did you get it?
BOSAAL: The Kinjal frigate.
JANEWAY: Do they want to join our Alliance?
BOSAAL: They're not interested.
JANEWAY: How did you get this?
BOSAAL: I traded for it.
JANEWAY: What did you give them?
BOSAAL: I don't answer to you.
JANEWAY: Did you steal it? Disconnect the modulator.
TORRES: Captain
JANEWAY: We're returning it to the people it belongs to.
BOSAAL: They have no more use for it.
JANEWAY: You don't know that.
JANEWAY: You killed them.
GARON: Captain, I don't like his tactics any more than you do, but why waste this technology when we're so close to escaping?
JANEWAY: Because it's a violation of everything this Alliance stands for.
GARON: Refusing the modulator won't bring back the people he killed.
JANEWAY: No. But using it would make us accessories to murder. Take it and get out.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: The Jelinians and the Kraylor have left with Bosaal. They felt you were being
JANEWAY: Impulsive and self-righteous? Is that what you think?
CHAKOTAY: You did what you had to do.
JANEWAY: Still, I made a mistake.
CHAKOTAY: By telling Bosaal to leave?
CHAKOTAY: You couldn't have known what he was going to do.
JANEWAY: Oh, I had a pretty good idea what kind of person he was. That bigoted reaction he had to the Doctor's friend told me all I needed to know, but I ignored my instincts.
CHAKOTAY: Why?
JANEWAY: Because I thought his ship could help us escape.
CHAKOTAY: You weren't the only one who wanted him in the Alliance.
JANEWAY: Maybe not. But if I'd listened to my doubts in the first place, we wouldn't have lost the other two ships.
CHAKOTAY: We'll find a way out of here without them.
JANEWAY: Where do we stand with the modulator?
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna and the other engineers are working around the clock to build one. She thinks they'll be ready to test in a couple of days.
JANEWAY: So everyone's pulling together to make up for my mistake.
CHAKOTAY: They have to. It says so in the Federation Charter.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: Good news, I hope.
TUVOK: I'm afraid not. It appears Commander Bosaal is attempting to form an alliance of his own with one of our adversaries.
LOQUAR: We recorded a tactical conversation that took place between them just a few minutes ago.
VALEN (screen): Don't underestimate Janeway. I've been in battle with her twice.
BOSAAL (screen): Then you know Janeway's tactics. I have two other ships. We can take Voyager's food and weapons if we work together.
TUVOK: The rest of their conversation suggests they will attack within the next forty eight hours.
JANEWAY: I'm so glad we taught them the value of cooperation.
TUVOK: Our power reserves will be severely depleted if we're forced to defend ourselves.
JANEWAY: Tell B'Elanna we don't have time to test her modulator. We've got to try to escape now.

[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Sorry to interrupt, but we've got a situation developing. We're going to try to break free of the anomaly. Your friends are welcome to join us but they should be aware of the dangers.
EMH: The Void's their home. They want to stay.
JANEWAY: Where would they like us to transport them?
EMH: They're nomads. Any ship'll do. They said they're grateful for our help. They want to help us now.

[Bridge]
KIM: There's a funnel forming in grid four. Graviton surge in ninety eight seconds.
JANEWAY: Alert the other ships. Take us in, Tom.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: Bosaal and his fleet are approaching. They are charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Engineering. Status.
TORRES (voiceover): I need two more minutes.
JANEWAY: You've got one.
KIM: Surge in fifty seconds.
JANEWAY: Voyager to all Alliance ships. Begin firing at your designated targets.
TUVOK: We've penetrated shields on both vessels.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the Doctor. Initiate

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Transport.
EMH: Acknowledged. Yes, Goodbye and good luck. Energize.
SEVEN: Transport complete, Captain. They're in the engine rooms of both ships.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Acknowledged.
KIM: Thirty seconds.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Engineering. We need that modulator.
TORRES (voiceover): Just a few more seconds.
KIM: We're receiving a hail from Valen's ship, audio only.
JANEWAY: Let's hear it.
JANEWAY: What's he saying, Doctor?

[Transporter room]
EMH: Mission accomplished. Fantome's shut down power on Valen's ship.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Confirmed. Bosaal's ship has lost power as well.
PARIS: Who says gremlins in the engine are a myth?
KIM: Surge in five seconds, four.
JANEWAY: Now, B'Elanna.
CHAKOTAY: All ships are in formation.
TUVOK: Structural integrity at thirty percent
PARIS: Forty thousand meters to normal space.
TUVOK: Twenty percent, ten percent.
JANEWAY: Do it, Tom!

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: Gentlemen, it's been a privilege to have you as allies.
GALEN: I never believed we'd escape.
LOQUAR: Then why did you join?
GALEN: Captain Janeway is very persuasive. And the food was good.
JANEWAY: You're welcome to have a meal with us anytime.
GALEN: Ah. Unfortunately, we're headed in the opposite direction. Safe journey to you and your crew, Captain.
JANEWAY: And to all of yours as well.
LOQUAR: Thank you.
JANEWAY: It was almost like being part of a Federation again.
CHAKOTAY: The real one's only thirty thousand light years away.
JANEWAY: Then what are we standing around for?

[Power distribution plant]
JANEWAY: Excuse me, can you tell me where I can find the supervisor?
WORKER: Over there.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
SUPERVISOR: Your authorisation and licenses please? Level six in thermal dynamics and quantum fusion. Well, Janeway, I'm impressed.
JANEWAY: Thank you, sir.
SUPERVISOR: Now if you can just manage to report to your shift on time.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, I boarded the wrong transport. I ended up at the Atmosphere Filtration Facility.
SUPERVISOR: They're always looking for skilled workers. I'm surprised they didn't offer you a job.
JANEWAY: I promise I won't be late again.
SUPERVISOR: Well, it's easy to get disoriented when you're new here. I've been in this city all my life and I still get lost on occasion. Now you'll be monitoring the primary reactor coils. They process more than eight thousand
JANEWAY: Eight thousand metric tons of tylium per second at ninety four percent thermal efficiency. I memorized the specifications.
SUPERVISOR: Let me know if there's anything you need. You'll find we like to keep our workforce happy.
JANEWAY: I can already tell it's going to be much better than my last job.
SUPERVISOR: The specifications you asked for.
JANEWAY: Thanks.
COMPUTER: Input error four one five. Command code violation two three zero eight.
JANEWAY: Come on, shut off that damn alarm and I promise I'll never violate you again.
JAFFEN: You almost started a core overload.
JANEWAY: I would have corrected it.
JAFFEN: Well I'm sorry for interrupting then, and for eavesdropping. I overheard you talking to your console.
JANEWAY: It's an old habit.
JAFFEN: Does it work?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure this control panel and I speak the same language yet.
JAFFEN: Well, if you need an interpreter. Jaffen.
JANEWAY: Kathryn.
JAFFEN: I work just down there.
JANEWAY: That's good to know.
SEVEN: This station doesn't require two operators.
JAFFEN: I don't think we've met. I'm
SEVEN: Employee one three two six, and you're employee eight five eight four. Since you're new here, you may not be fully familiar with the labor protocols, but you should be aware that fraternizing is not permitted during work hours.
JAFFEN: And do you have a number. or maybe a name?
SEVEN: Annika Hansen.
JAFFEN: And what exactly is your position here?
SEVEN: I'm the new Efficiency Monitor.
JAFFEN: Oh, I didn't know they'd hired one.
SEVEN: Now that you do, I suggest you return to your station.
JANEWAY: We weren't fraternizing. He was just helping me correct an input error. We're almost finished.
SEVEN: Do it quickly.
JANEWAY: Yes, ma'am.
JAFFEN: I thought we were fraternizing. Maybe we could get acquainted after work. There is a little place some of us like to go to. We could get a meal.
JANEWAY: I can't.
JAFFEN: You need to talk to someone besides your console.
JANEWAY: I appreciate the offer, but with this new job I don't really have time to socialize.

[Bar]
UMALI: They're always looking for laborers at the Power Distribution Plant.
PARIS: I had a job there once. Didn't like it much.
UMALI: Odd. They treat their employees well. How long were you there?
PARIS: Oh, a while.
UMALI: It would be very simple for me to find out.
PARIS: A day.
UMALI: A day?
PARIS: Half a day, actually. Give or take an hour.
UMALI: Not what I'd call an illustrious career.
PARIS: I don't belong behind a console pushing buttons, But when I heard some of the workers talking about your place, I knew I had to get a job here.
UMALI: You were terminated, weren't you?
PARIS: Yes.
UMALI: That's quite an accomplishment during a labor shortage. What happened?
PARIS: It's a long story.
UMALI: I like a long story.
PARIS: I had a disagreement with the new Efficiency Monitor. She didn't think my work was very
UMALI: Efficient?
PARIS: Exactly.
UMALI: Then why should I hire you?
PARIS: Well, there's my natural charm and personality. They'd be a real asset around a place like this where you're trying to attract patrons. I mean, look at you. You haven't been able to tear yourself away from me.
UMALI: There's no one else here.
PARIS: Please. I really need the work.
UMALI: You'd better clean those tables over there. This place is going to be filled with hungry workers as soon as the next shift ends.
PARIS: You won't regret this.
UMALI: Oh, I'm certain I will.
JAFFEN: All of them about my father and he couldn't understand why I wasn't insulted. Finally I just had to tell him. I'm Norvalen, I don't have a father!
JAFFEN: It wasn't that funny, Tuvok.
TUVOK: On the contrary. The man was ignorant of how your species procreates. His attempt to disparage you ultimately humiliated him. Irony is often a source of humor.
JAFFEN: Yes, well, when you explain it like that, it's not funny at all.
TUVOK: I also have some humorous anecdotes to share.
JAFFEN: I'll look forward to hearing them.
JAFFEN: I thought you didn't have time to socialize?
JANEWAY: I'm not socializing. I'm reviewing these manuals and having something to eat.
JAFFEN: Well, I recommend the Latara broth and the section on thermal coefficients. I'll join you.
JANEWAY: Really, I'm very, very busy.
JAFFEN: Oh, not to socialize. To, er, help you review the manuals.
PARIS: Here you are. Compliments of the proprietress.
UMALI: Tom?
PARIS: I'll be right back.
UMALI: The proprietress doesn't give away drinks.
PARIS: Well, I'm just creating customer loyalty.
UMALI: You've been creating loyalty all night with those two women. I suggest you attend to the other tables.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
UMALI: Here you are.
JAFFEN: Thank you. It looks great.

[Staircase and walkway]
JANEWAY: I can't believe I let you keep me out this late.
JAFFEN: I felt it was my responsibility to help you study those manuals.
JANEWAY: Of course.
JAFFEN: And now that I have, you should be less likely to overload the core. You know, with all this fascinating discussion about thermal co-efficients you never told me where you're from.
JANEWAY: A planet called Earth.
JAFFEN: Never heard of it.
JANEWAY: Oh, a long way from here.
JAFFEN: What's it like?
JANEWAY: Overpopulated, polluted, very little work.
JAFFEN: It sounds like my home world. I guess we're both lucky to be here.
JANEWAY: It's nice to be in a place where different species get along so well.
JAFFEN: So, you admit we're getting along.
JANEWAY: I was speaking in a broader cultural context.
JAFFEN: I see.
JANEWAY: There's a lot of violence where I come from.
JAFFEN: That's too bad.
JANEWAY: I still haven't adjusted to the weather here. It gets so cold at night.
SECURITY: It's almost curfew.
JAFFEN: Yes, sir. We both live right here.
SECURITY: Good night, then.
JAFFEN: You know, one of the advantages of living in employee housing is that we can continue sharing ideas even after the work day is over.
JANEWAY: Is that so?
JAFFEN: Yes, and I do have a spectacular view of the river from my living quarters.
JANEWAY: I really have to get to sleep. Maybe another time.
JAFFEN: I'm sorry if I'm making you uncomfortable.
JANEWAY: You're not.
JAFFEN: Well, if you get lonely
JANEWAY: I'll let you know.

[Power Distribution Plant]
JANEWAY: It wasn't me.
JAFFEN: It's not an overload. It's time for our inoculations.
JANEWAY: What inoculations?
JAFFEN: They're nothing to worry about. Protection against ambient radiation.
JANEWAY: I didn't realize that was a problem.
JAFFEN: It's not, as long as you're inoculated regularly. We're lucky to have an employer that concerned about our safety.

[Inoculation queue]
TECH: Is something wrong?
TUVOK: Forgive me, but I'm, I'm afraid of injections.
MED TECH: I assure you, this is painless.
TUVOK: Is there some other method of administering the medication?
MED TECH: No, I'm afraid there isn't.
TUVOK: Very well.
MED TECH: We're finished. You can go back to work. Next. First Officer's log, stardate 54584.3. Ensign Kim, Mister Neelix and I are returning to Voyager after five days of trading with the Nar Shaddan.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
KIM: In six years I've never been on an away mission worse than this one.
NEELIX: I don't know how you can say that? The cargo hold is crammed with valuable supplies.
KIM: And my stomach is crammed with alien parasites doing backflips.
NEELIX: I guess you shouldn't have drunk that Falah nectar.
KIM: You insisted I try it.
NEELIX: The Nar Shaddan consider it a delicacy. To refuse would have insulted them.
KIM: I didn't hear you insisting that Commander Chakotay try it.
NEELIX: Commander Chakotay's a vegetarian.
KIM: It was made from meat?
NEELIX: More like a meat by-product.
KIM: I'm going to be sick.
NEELIX: Not after you drink this.
KIM: What is it?
NEELIX: Leola bark tea, to settle even the queasiest of stomachs.
KIM: Oh, it smells worse than the meat nectar. I'll wait for the Doctor to treat me. At least I'll be sleeping in my own bed tonight.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Harry, I know you're not feeling well, but I need you and Neelix up here.
KIM: On our way.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
NEELIX: Anything wrong, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: We're at the rendezvous coordinates, but there's no sign of Voyager, and they're not responding to hails. Start scanning on all frequencies. They've got to be out there somewhere.
KIM: So much for my own bed.

[Engineering]
EMH: Re-initialize the subspace transponder.
COMPUTER: Warning. Main computer is failing.
EMH: Switch to backup processors.
COMPUTER: Main computer stabilized.
EMH: Good. Now, let's try this again. Re-initialize the subspace transponder.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
EMH: Why not?
COMPUTER: Insufficient power.
EMH: And they say I'm difficult. Reroute power from the replicator system.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
EMH: Clarify.
COMPUTER: Relays to the transponder are fused.
EMH: Any suggestions?
COMPUTER: Please restate inquiry.
EMH: Can the power relays be bypassed?
COMPUTER: Negative.
EMH: Then I suppose I'll have to replace them by hand.
COMPUTER: Warning. Intruder alert.
EMH: Where?
COMPUTER: The bridge.
EMH: How many?
COMPUTER: Two humanoids.
EMH: Can you identify them?
COMPUTER: Negative. Sensor resolution is below twenty percent.

[Bridge]
EMH: Stop what you're doing and turn around!
KIM: Take it easy, Doc. It's us.
EMH: It's good to see some friendly faces. For that matter, it's good to see any faces at all. I'm sorry I haven't gotten life support back online yet, but since I've been the only one aboard it hasn't been a priority.
CHAKOTAY: What the hell happened?
EMH: We ran into some problems.
CHAKOTAY: I can see that. Can you be a little more specific?
EMH: Of course. About twelve hours after you left on your away mission, things started to go wrong.

[EMH narrative - Doctor's office]
EMH (voiceover): We hit some sort of subspace mine.
EMH: Computer, transfer the EMH to the mobile emitter. Sickbay to bridge. Sickbay to Engineering, please respond.
EMH (voiceover): It wasn't long before I was inundated with casualties, all suffering from tetryon radiation poisoning. Pretty soon the Captain arrived.
JANEWAY: Doctor, can you treat these people?
EMH: I can stabilize them, but if we can't contain the radiation
JANEWAY: Get everyone to the escape pods, quickly. Not you, Doctor. I need you here.
EMH: Captain?
JANEWAY: Computer, activate the Emergency Command Hologram. Authorisation Janeway omega three.
COMPUTER: Command codes transferred.
JANEWAY: You've wanted this chance for a long time. Now you've got it.
EMH: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Try to vent the radiation. The rest of us will get out of the contaminated area and head for the nearest habitable planet.
EMH: You need medical care.
JANEWAY: Unless someone answers our distress call we'll have to made do with medkits. We'll rendezvous as soon as it's safe to come back on board. Take good care of Voyager.
EMH: You can count on me, Captain.

[EMH narrative - Bridge]
EMH (voiceover): The crew abandoned ship and I began to assess the damage caused by the mine. But before I could even get started with the repairs, I got some unexpected company.
EMH: Computer, report.
COMPUTER: An alien vessel has locked on to Voyager with a tractor beam.
EMH: Open a channel. This is the Federation starship Voyager. Disengage your tractor beam.
COYOTE (screen): Our scans show no lifesigns aboard your vessel. Identify yourself.
EMH: I am the Emergency Command Hologram.
COYOTE (screen): Hologram?
EMH: That's right. Now release my ship.
COYOTE (screen): Your crew's abandoned it. It belongs to me now.
EMH: I beg to differ. Computer, target the vessel's tractor emitter and fire.
EMH: Come about, heading nine zero three mark six. Engage at warp two.
COMPUTER: Warp engines are offline.
EMH: Evasive pattern beta four. Target the vessel's engines.
COMPUTER: Warning. Two vessels approaching bearing three three six mark one.
EMH: Reverse course. Full impulse.

[Bridge]
EMH: I managed to evade the other two ships and hid inside this nebula. I vented the radiation, repaired as many systems as I could, but with no help? Let's just say I'm glad you found me.
KIM: It wasn't easy picking up your homing signal.
EMH: Well, I had to encrypt it. Every time I left the nebula I detected more ships searching for me.
CHAKOTAY: Any idea who they are?
EMH: No, but I've analyzed all of their weapons signatures. They match the subspace mine. It was a deliberate attempt to disable Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: Good thing you were here.
KIM: What about the rest of the crew?
EMH: Not a word.

[Tuvok's memories - Quarren Medical Facility]
KADAN: Make them comfortable. We're going to treat your injuries.
JANEWAY: Who are you?
KADAN: My name is Doctor Kadan. We're in a Quarren Medical Facility.
JANEWAY: My crew ?
KADAN: My understanding is that they've all been rescued from their escape pods.
JANEWAY: Treat my people first.
KADAN: Everyone will be taken care of.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
TUVOK: What is that medication?
KADAN: An anti-radiation serum. Perfectly safe.
TUVOK: What are you doing?
KADAN: She's suffering from dysphoria syndrome. Don't worry, it's treatable.
TUVOK: Release her immediately.
KADAN: Restrain him.
TUVOK: Captain! No, no!

[Power Distribution Plant]
TUVOK: Excuse me.
JANEWAY: Hi.
TUVOK: I believe we know each other.
JANEWAY: You're Tuvok, right? We met last week at the shift briefing.
TUVOK: Before that. Before we were working here.
JANEWAY: Oh, I don't think so. I mean, we're obviously not from the same place.
TUVOK: Still, I believe I know you. From the hospital, perhaps?
JANEWAY: What hospital?
TUVOK: I am not certain. We were patients.
JANEWAY: You must have me confused with someone else. I've never been sick enough to go to a hospital. I'm sorry, I have a lot of work to finish.
TUVOK: Please, try to remember. It may be important.
JAFFEN: Is there a problem here?
JANEWAY: I think it's just a misunderstanding.
JAFFEN: Tuvok?
TUVOK: She's right. It's, er, it's, er, a misunderstanding.
JAFFEN: You don't look well. Maybe you should go to the infirmary.
TUVOK: No, no, I'm fine. Fine. Er, I'll go back to my station. Sorry to have bothered you.
JAFFEN: What was that all about?
JANEWAY: I'm not sure. Strange man.
JAFFEN: And a terrible joke teller. So, we having dinner tonight?
JANEWAY: Again?
JAFFEN: What, you don't like my cooking?
JANEWAY: No, it's wonderful. It's just
JAFFEN: I'm a perfectionist. I'm going to keep trying until I make you the perfect meal.
JANEWAY: And then we stop eating together? I'll have dinner with you, on one condition. I make it.
JAFFEN: I think I can accept those terms.
JANEWAY: Good. Now go back to your station before the Efficiency Monitor catches us fraternizing.

[Bar]
PARIS: Can I bring you something else?
TORRES: No, thank you.
PARIS: I haven't seen you in here before.
TORRES: You probably just didn't notice.
PARIS: Oh, I'd have noticed.
TORRES: Well, apparently you aren't as observant as you think you are.
PARIS: Oh, really?
TORRES: I've been coming in here the same time every day, for the past two weeks.
PARIS: Well, that explains it. I usually work nights.
TORRES: Me, too.
PARIS: At the Power Distribution Facility. You see? I am observant.
UMALI: Tom, I need you for a moment.
PARIS: I'll be right there. Listen, you should come back in when you get a night off. It's a lot more fun when there's a crowd.
TORRES: I don't really like crowds.
PARIS: Well then, maybe we could get together during the day sometime, take a walk by the river.
TORRES: I don't think so.
PARIS: Why not? I'm a very engaging conversationalist.
PARIS: Oh.
TORRES: Yeah. Still want to get together?
PARIS: You're married.
TORRES: No.
PARIS: Oh.
TORRES: Enjoy your day. First Officer's log, stardate 54597.9. After restoring primary systems, we've left the nebula to try to find the crew. Though there's still a lot of damage, we have been able to reconfigure sensors to detect subspace mines. Ensign Kim's been running continuous scans but there's still no sign of our people. On the bright side, the ships that were searching for us seem to have given up. With only four people on board, repairs are going slowly.

[Engineering]
COMPUTER: Power to the secondary propulsion systems has been restored.
KIM (voiceover): Kim to Doctor. Report to Astrometrics.
EMH: On my way.

[Astrometrics lab]
EMH: Any luck?
KIM: I've scanned ships and planets in eighty three systems. No humans, no Vulcans, no Bolians.
EMH: Maybe we can increase the range of the sensors by tying them into the main deflector?
KIM: I've already done that.
EMH: Oh. Well, we can boost resolution by
KIM: I appreciate your input, Doc, but I didn't call you down here to help me scan. I'm still feeling kind of queasy from that nectar.
EMH: I treated you days ago.
KIM: Whatever you did hasn't worked. Maybe all those command subroutines are compromising your medical abilities.
EMH: Maybe all that sarcasm is compromising your natural charm.

[Bridge]
EMH: I've repaired the deuterium injectors, brought secondary propulsion back online, and soothed Ensign Kim's upset tummy.
CHAKOTAY: Good work. Why don't you get started on the ruptured plasma conduits on deck ten?
EMH: Can't you take care of those?
CHAKOTAY: I beg your pardon?
EMH: Emergency Command Hologram. Doesn't that suggest my place is here, in Voyager's command center?
CHAKOTAY: Look, Doc, I'm impressed with the way you handled yourself while we were gone. But right now we've got to prioritize.
KIM (voiceover): Kim to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.

[Astrometrics lab]
KIM: I've found them, Commander. They're on an M class planet. At maximum warp, we can be there in less than three days.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Transfer the coordinates to the helm. I'll be in Astrometrics. Doctor, the command center is yours.

[Jaffen's apartment]
JAFFEN: Mmm, smells good.
JANEWAY: It's only burnt on the outside. Your cooking console's a little temperamental, huh?
JAFFEN: Did you try talking to it?
JANEWAY: Once I cut off the charred part, I'm sure it'll be fine.
JAFFEN: It's good.
JANEWAY: Really?
JAFFEN: Let's go.
JAFFEN: Where?
JANEWAY: I promised you dinner. We'll just have to get it somewhere else.
JAFFEN: Wait. I'm not really hungry. Are you?
JANEWAY: No.
JAFFEN: Let's stay here. First Officer's log, stardate 54608.6. We've traced the crew's life signs to a large city on a planet called Quarra. Unfortunately, the local officials aren't being very cooperative.

[Bridge]
AMBASSADOR (screen): I have personally interviewed several of the individuals on your crew manifest. None of them know who you are, nor have they heard of a starship Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like to speak to them myself.
AMBASSADOR (screen): That's not possible.
CHAKOTAY: If you're telling the truth, you have nothing to lose by letting us talk to them.
AMBASSADOR (screen): Unlike other planets in this system, we grant our guest workers the full protection of our laws.
EMH: What exactly are you protecting them from?
AMBASSADOR (screen): Unscrupulous individuals attempting to acquire skilled laborers.
EMH: We're not trying to acquire laborers. We're trying to find our friends.
AMBASSADOR (screen): Most of your friends have excellent positions in the Central Power Facility in the capital. Why would any of them want to travel thousands of light years to a planet on the other side of the galaxy when they have safe, comfortable lives right here?
CHAKOTAY: Because it isn't their home.
AMBASSADOR (screen): I suggest you look elsewhere to increase your labor supply. And if you attempt to disturb any of our citizens, we will respond with force.
CHAKOTAY: Any luck?
KIM: There's no way to beam them through the shield grid.
CHAKOTAY: Take us out of orbit.
EMH: We're not leaving them behind?
CHAKOTAY: No, but I want these people to think we are.

[Jaffen's apartment]
JAFFEN: I hope the cooking console's not being temperamental again?
JANEWAY: Making a hot drink is one thing I can do.
JANEWAY: I told you.
JAFFEN: What's even better is being here with you. Are you comfortable?
JANEWAY: The blanket's nice and warm.
JAFFEN: No, I mean here with me.
JANEWAY: I can't remember being more comfortable in my life.

[Bar]
PARIS: Yeah, I'll take care of it.
PARIS: Hi. Listen, I get off work in a few minutes. I thought maybe you and I could go
TORRES: You don't give up, do you?
PARIS: You don't even know what I was going to say.
TORRES: Let me guess. You're going to invite me to take a walk by the river, or maybe to your living quarters to admire the view.
PARIS: Actually I was going to offer to introduce you to some people I met. A couple, expecting their first baby in a few weeks. I thought you might want to get to know some other parents. You know, swap stories, maybe even find a playmate for your baby? If it's a bad idea
TORRES: No. No, it's nice.
PARIS: Listen, I'm sorry about the other day.
TORRES: I'm the one who should be apologizing. I shouldn't have assumed
PARIS: Forget it.
TORRES: Look, it's rare that I admit I'm wrong so you might as well take advantage of it while you can. It's been hard, being alone with a baby coming. I have a habit of keeping my guard up.
PARIS: That's understandable.
TORRES: It's just, a romantic relationship is really out of the question for me right now, and when you started asking
PARIS: How about a friend?
TORRES: What?
PARIS: Well, you said romance is out of the question, but could you use a friend?

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: Any progress?
NEELIX: I've spoken to the captains of eight vessels that left Quarra in the last two weeks.
EMH: No one knew anything about the crew?
NEELIX: No, but every one of them asked me if I was looking for employment. Apparently, there's a severe labor shortage throughout this system. There's a lot of competition for workers.
CHAKOTAY: That Ambassador said most of our people were working at the main power facility. I wonder if they still have any positions to fill?
NEELIX: I can make some inquiries. Why?
CHAKOTAY: Because you and I are going to find ourselves jobs.
EMH: Re-entering orbit might arouse their suspicion.
NEELIX: Not if we take my ship.
CHAKOTAY: Good idea, Neelix.
EMH: Commander, you've spoken directly with several government officials. You could be recognized.
CHAKOTAY: Isn't reconstructive surgery one of your specialties?

[Sickbay]
NEELIX: I still say you should have posed as a Talaxian. We'd have made a striking pair.
CHAKOTAY: Whiskers make me itch. How did it go?
NEELIX: As soon as I told the Supervisor our qualifications, he was eager to hire us. He even helped me get a docking permit for my ship. We'll be gainfully employed by tomorrow morning.
KIM: Here you go, Doc.
EMH: Give me your hand, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: What's this?
KIM: A sub-dermal transponder. It will allow us to maintain an open comm. link so we can transport you through the shield grid if there's trouble.
CHAKOTAY: Hold position at maximum transporter range.
KIM: Aye, sir.
EMH: I assumed I'd be in charge during your absence, Commander.
KIM: Excuse me?
EMH: An Emergency Command Hologram programmed with over two million tactical subroutines outranks an Ensign.
KIM: A few words to the computer and this Ensign can delete those subroutines.
EMH: Then you'd be depriving yourself of a skilled leader for the sake of your ego.
KIM: Oh, my ego?
CHAKOTAY: Gentlemen. Work it out.
BOTH: Aye, sir.

[Power distribution plant]
SEVEN: Employee eight five eight three. Mister Tuvok. According to my records, you've neglected to report for your last three inoculations. These inoculations are for your protection. A sick worker is not an efficient worker. Report to the infirmary.
TUVOK: Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: What?
TUVOK: Seven of Nine. It's your designation.
SEVEN: My employee number is eight five eight six. Take your hands off me!
SEVEN: Call security!
TUVOK: I don't believe you are who you think you are.
TUVOK: We don't belong here. We don't belong here! This isn't right! We don't belong here!
SUPERVISOR: Qualification level three in micro-kinetics. You could use some improvement there. Level five in thermionic conversion. Good, We lost a thermionic specialist yesterday.
CHAKOTAY: Did he find a better job?
SUPERVISOR: Health problems.
SUPERVISOR: Someone you know?
CHAKOTAY: No, just an unusual species.
SUPERVISOR: We have a diverse workforce. Our thermionic converters operate on a rotating frequency, so they have to be closely monitored. You'll be required to report your readings to the controller at a regular interval. Any questions?
SUPERVISOR: Are you listening to me?
CHAKOTAY: Sorry, sir. I'm just excited to be here.
SUPERVISOR: Carry on.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn.
JANEWAY: Yes?
CHAKOTAY: It's Chakotay.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry?
CHAKOTAY: I'm new here. The supervisor said you would be a good person to speak to if I had any questions.
JANEWAY: What can I help you with?
CHAKOTAY: Nothing. I just wanted to introduce myself.
JANEWAY: Oh. What did you say your name was?
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay. Actually, that's just what my friends call me. My employment file lists my given name, Amal Kotay.
JANEWAY: Well, whatever your name is, I'm happy to help you any way I can.

[Quarren Medical Facility]
TUVOK: No. No.
KADAN: You're experiencing a relapse of dysphoria syndrome. This is going to make you feel better.
TUVOK: Get away from me.

[Bar]
PARIS: Losing my job there was the best thing that ever happened to me.
NEELIX: Why's that?
PARIS: Well, so many rules and regulations. It was like a military operation.
NEELIX: I know what you mean. Report here, reroute power there. It's almost like serving aboard a starship.
PARIS: Have you ever done that?
NEELIX: You're looking at the former captain of his own cargo vessel.
PARIS: Hmm. Must be quite a life.
NEELIX: What about you. Ever worked on a ship?
PARIS: Oh, no. Space travel makes me sick.
NEELIX: So, do you know most of the people that come in here?
PARIS: A lot of them. This is a great place to work.
NEELIX: Seems like it.
PARIS: I could put in a good word for you to my employer.
CHAKOTAY: Ah, Neelix.
NEELIX: I was wondering when you'd get here. Amal Kotay, this is my new friend, Tom Paris.
PARIS: What can I get you?
CHAKOTAY: That looks good.
NEELIX: I was assigned to the Primary Fusion Chamber along with Mulchaey and Celes. Neither of them recognized me.
CHAKOTAY: Let me guess. They really love their jobs.
NEELIX: It's like they've all been programmed to be happy here.
CHAKOTAY: It's a safe bet they're not going to leave willingly.
PARIS: Here you go.
JANEWAY: Hi, how was your first day?
CHAKOTAY: Not bad.
JANEWAY: Would you and your friend like to join us?
CHAKOTAY: That would be nice.
JAFFEN: Er, actually I was hoping we could eat alone tonight.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe another time.
JANEWAY: That was rude.
JAFFEN: I'm sorry, I just, er. There's something I'd like to talk to you about.
TORRES: Thanks.
WOMAN: Thank you for joining us.
PARIS: B'Elanna. I'm due for a break. I'll walk you to the transport.
TORRES: Stop worrying. I'll be fine.
PARIS: It's not you that I'm worried about.
TORRES: The baby will be fine, too.
JAFFEN: So, what I was thinking is. If we were to combine our resources, we would reduce our expenses.
JANEWAY: Are you asking me to move in?
JAFFEN: Yes. I know it's impulsive, I know we haven't known each other very long. But things are so easy when we're together, and I just thought I
JANEWAY: Okay.
JAFFEN: What?
JANEWAY: Maybe I'm out of my mind, but let's try it.

[Street]
CHAKOTAY: Excuse me.
TORRES: It was my fault. I should watch where I'm going.
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna?
TORRES: How do you know my name?
CHAKOTAY: What if I told you we were old friends?
TORRES: That's a ridiculous statement.
CHAKOTAY: I know it sounds strange, but I can prove it to you.
TORRES: Look, I'm sorry, but I'm late for work.
TORRES: Let go of me!
CHAKOTAY: I'm not going to hurt you.
TORRES: No.
TORRES: Security, help!
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. We've got B'Elanna.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Lock on to Neelix's signal and transport them to Sickbay.
KIM: Acknowledged.

[Street]
TORRES: Help me!
SECURITY: Let her go.
SECURITY: Stop!
CHAKOTAY: Harry, I need an emergency transport now!

[Bridge]
KIM: Sorry, Commander, we're under attack. I had to raise shields.

[Sickbay]
TORRES: No, leave me alone.
NEELIX: We're friends. We're trying to help you.
TORRES: No, don't touch me!

[Gantry]
SECURITY: He turned into the access way.
SECURITY 2: I'll call for reinforcements.
SECURITY 2 (voiceover): I think he went in there!
SECURITY (voiceover): Be careful, he might be armed.

[Gantry]
SECURITY: Wait here.
SECURITY 2: Yes, sir.
SECURITY: He's deactivated a safety field. Alert emergency medical, he may have tried to jump.

[Bridge]
KIM: I can't penetrate their shields.
EMH: Maybe we don't have to. The battle of Vorkado, it's in my tactical database. A Romulan captain disabled two attacking vessels by creating a photonic shock wave between the ships.
KIM: How'd he do that?
EMH: Watch and learn.
EMH: I don't think they'll be bothering us again.
KIM: Good work. Let's go back for Chakotay.
EMH: Five more ships on an intercept course.
KIM: What's your tactical database telling you now?
EMH: Transporters are damaged, shields are failing. We have to retreat, come up with a new plan.
KIM: Agreed.

[Bar]
JANEWAY: Listen, I'm sorry about my friend.
CHAKOTAY: Excuse me?
JANEWAY: Jaffen. He wasn't very nice when I invited you to join us. Are you all right?
CHAKOTAY: I'm just a little tired. First day on a new job.
JANEWAY: I know how that can be. Well, I just wanted to let you know you're more than welcome to sit with us.
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I was thinking about going home.
JANEWAY: Well, if you change your mind, we're celebrating.
CHAKOTAY: What's the occasion?
JANEWAY: I've decided to move in with Jaffen.
CHAKOTAY: Congratulations.
YERID: Look among the patrons. Yerid, criminal investigations.
PARIS: We run an honest business.
YERID: I'm looking for two people who disappeared after leaving here earlier this evening. One was a young pregnant woman.
PARIS: B'Elanna?
YERID: You know her?
PARIS: I knew I should have walked her to the transport.
YERID: Why, did you think someone might try to hurt her?
PARIS: This city is supposed to be safe!
YERID: The person with her was described as short, with mottled skin, facial hair.
PARIS: Sounds like someone who was in here earlier. A worker from the plant.
YERID: Do you know his name?
PARIS: Neelix, I think.
YERID: Did you see him talking to anyone else while he was here?
PARIS: He had a friend, Amal something.
YERID: Can you describe him?
PARIS: I don't have to, he's sitting right over ECH log, stardate 54622.4. I've found an ingenious place to hide while we make repairs. A moon with a para-magnetic core that masks our energy signature. I've turned my attention to Lieutenant Torres, whose treatment will also require ingenuity.

[Sickbay]
EMH: The scan on the left was performed during B'Elanna's last physical. The one on the right, just a few minutes ago. The memory centers of her brain have been radically altered.
NEELIX: People from our crew seemed to remember parts of their real lives, but they got a lot of the details wrong. Tom knew his name, that he was from Earth, but he said space travel made him sick.
EMH: Whoever did this is very sophisticated, capable of selectively manipulating memory engrams. Some have been suppressed, some altered, others left intact.
NEELIX: Can you undo the damage?
EMH: I believe so, but it'll take some time.
NEELIX: I wish I could help.
EMH: Maybe you can. She'll require several treatments. In between, you could expose her to familiar sights and surroundings.
NEELIX: Say no more. I'll take her on a whirlwind tour of her own life.
EMH: Don't rush things. This is going to be very traumatic for her.

[Quarren Medical Facility]
RAVOC: Acute anxiety, depression. When I interviewed him he insisted that he's not who he's supposed to be, that we've stolen his katra, whatever that is.
KADAN: Conclusions?
RAVOC: Tri-lobe regression complex? Polar-affective disorder?
KADAN: Neuro-psychiatry isn't a guessing game, Doctor Ravoc.
RAVOC: Dysphoria syndrome.
KADAN: You have been studying my research.
RAVOC: According to your work, the condition is very rare.
KADAN: It is. I've treated this man before. Apparently, he has suffered a relapse. Recommended treatment?
RAVOC: Engrammatic resequencing is typically indicated.
KADAN: You seem skeptical.
RAVOC: Resequencing is a radical procedure.
KADAN: If he had a malignant tumor, would you be afraid to cut it out?
RAVOC: No.
KADAN: This syndrome is just as insidious. It requires aggressive treatment. Get started.
TUVOK: Please. Help me.
RAVOC: That's what we're here to do.

[Supervisor's office]
SEVEN: I want to know the status of employee eight five eight three.
SUPERVISOR: Maybe it's different where you come from, but here it's polite to say good morning.
SEVEN: Good morning.
SUPERVISOR: Eight five eight three. The man who was removed by security yesterday. He's been hospitalized.
SEVEN: Is there any reason to believe that his condition might be contagious? He came in contact with other workers. Some of them have expressed concern.
SUPERVISOR: Well, tell them not worry.
YERID: Excuse me, am I intruding?
SUPERVISOR: What can we do for you?
YERID: I'm investigating the disappearance of two of your employees.
SUPERVISOR: Who?
YERID: Their names are Neelix and Torres.
SEVEN: Both of them failed to report for work today.
SEVEN: Employee nine three six three. He didn't report for his shift either.
YERID: I'd like to see his personnel file, and I'll need to interview anyone who may know where he is.
SEVEN: Why are you looking for him?
YERID: I believe he's responsible for the disappearance of the other two.

[Jaffen's apartment]
JAFFEN: You've only been here three weeks. Where did you get all these things?
JANEWAY: I'm a collector.
JAFFEN: You collect spent plasma relays?
JANEWAY: I like to think of it as a decorative object.
JANEWAY: You know, I think this would look better over there.
JAFFEN: You're not going to start telling me how to dress, are you? Where are you going?
JANEWAY: To get the rest of my things.
JAFFEN: There's more?

[Janeway's apartment]
JANEWAY: Lights.
JANEWAY: What do you want?
CHAKOTAY: You told me you were moving out. I needed a place to hide.
JANEWAY: Jaffen knows where I am. He'll come looking for me.
CHAKOTAY: I'm hoping you won't tell him I'm here.
JANEWAY: They say you had something to do with the disappearance of a woman at the plant.
CHAKOTAY: I did. Her name's B'Elanna. She was brought to this planet against her will. Something was done to her so she'd forget her real life.
JANEWAY: And what, you helped her get home?
CHAKOTAY: That's right. There are other people in this city who I'm also trying to help. I'm not here to hurt anyone. You have to trust me.
JANEWAY: You're pointing a weapon at me.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead, report me. But if you do, a lot of innocent people are going to suffer. All I'm asking for is a place to stay until my friends come back for me.
JANEWAY: We're going to have to do something about that arm.

[Torres-Paris' quarters]
TORRES: The waiter from the tavern?
NEELIX: Lieutenant Tom Paris, our pilot, and B'Elanna Torres, our Chief Engineer. That picture was taken on your honeymoon.
TORRES: It isn't possible.
NEELIX: How else would we have it? It's an antique television. You gave it to Tom as a present.
TORRES: He watches cartoons.
NEELIX: Yes.
TORRES: How do I know that?
NEELIX: Because you're starting to remember.
TORRES: I wondered why he was so protective of me.
NEELIX: I'll be outside if you need me.

[Power Distribution Plant]
SEVEN: Your shift ended three hours ago.
JANEWAY: My friend Jaffen. Employee one three two six. He cut himself.
SEVEN: Removing property from these premises is not permitted.
JANEWAY: I know, but he's just too stubborn to go to the hospital. I promise I'll have it back first thing in the morning.
SEVEN: Be sure that you do.

[Supervisor's office]
SEVEN: Display the personnel file for employee eight five eight three.
COMPUTER: Access restricted. Security clearance verified.
SEVEN: Display all medical and historical data for this employee's species.
COMPUTER: Data unavailable.
SEVEN: List all files accessed by this employee since he's been here.
COMPUTER: Personnel files. Employee eight five eight two. Nozowo, Kashimuro. Employee eight five eight four. Janeway, Kathryn. Employee eight five eight five. McKenzie, William. Employee eight five eight six. Hansen, Annika. Employee eight five eight seven. Anderson, Lydia. Employee eight five eight eight, Torres, B'Elanna. Employee

[Janeway's apartment]
JANEWAY: You need a doctor.
CHAKOTAY: That'll have to wait till I'm back on Voyager.
JANEWAY: Voyager?
CHAKOTAY: My ship.
JANEWAY: You live onboard?
CHAKOTAY: For almost seven years.
JANEWAY: Don't you ever want to stay in one place?
CHAKOTAY: You seem happy here.
JANEWAY: I've got a good job.
CHAKOTAY: Ever consider doing something more challenging?
JANEWAY: My job's challenging enough.
CHAKOTAY: You monitor reactor coils, right? You're obviously a very capable woman. You could probably run that power plant.
JANEWAY: Why would I want all that responsibility?
JANEWAY: What's that?
CHAKOTAY: My people are trying to contact me. Chakotay here.
KIM (voiceover): Are you okay, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: For the time being. Can you get me out of here?
KIM (voiceover): No, sir.

[Bridge]
KIM: We're eight light years away.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): How are you transmitting this signal that far?
EMH: We're using a triaxialating frequency on a covariant

[Janeway's apartment]
EMH (voiceover): Subspace band. It was B'Elanna's idea.
CHAKOTAY: I take it she's feeling better.
EMH (voiceover): She's responded well to treatment.
KIM (voiceover): Have you located anyone else from the crew?
CHAKOTAY: As a matter of fact, I'm sitting with Captain Janeway right now.
KIM (voiceover): How is she?
CHAKOTAY: A little suspicious, just like B'Elanna was at first. How soon can you get back into transporter range?
KIM (voiceover): We need

[Bridge]
KIM: A couple more days to finish repairs. What about the shield grid?
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I have an idea how to shut it down.

[Janeway's apartment]
CHAKOTAY: Until I get back to you, let's maintain comm. silence, just in case we're being monitored.
KIM (voiceover): Understood. Good luck, Commander.
JANEWAY: Why did you call me captain?
CHAKOTAY: Because that's who you are.
JANEWAY: That's absurd. So what are you saying, that I was brought here by force too? That my memories were manipulated?
CHAKOTAY: I know it sounds strange.
JANEWAY: Helping you was a mistake.
CHAKOTAY: Listen to me. There are more then a hundred members of Voyager's crew working at that power plant. Your crew. And when our ship gets here I'll be able to prove it to you. Look, I don't want to force you to do anything you don't want to, but don't you at least want to know the truth? Let me prove who I am. Hand me that dermal regenerator.
JANEWAY: We're the same race.
CHAKOTAY: We're more than that. We're friends.

[Jaffen's apartment]
JAFFEN: Am I hearing you correctly? You're actually helping this man? He abducted one of the workers.
JANEWAY: She's a member of his crew.
JAFFEN: Right, and you're the captain. Don't you see? He's trying to convince you that you'll have a better life if you go with him. Do you want to go with him?
JANEWAY: No.
JAFFEN: Then why are you risking everything we have?

[Janeway's apartment]
CHAKOTAY: I was starting to think
YERID: Stay where you are.

[Hospital]
CHAKOTAY: I don't know them.
YERID: I think you do, and I think you were involved in their disappearance.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not the man you're looking for.
YERID: Yes, the witness' description doesn't fit you exactly, but I'm sure that'll be explained once the doctor here finds evidence of dermal regeneration. What is it?
SURGEON: Some kind of communications device implanted under his skin.
YERID: Remove it.
CHAKOTAY: Listen to me. You and I have something in common.
YERID: Oh?
CHAKOTAY: We're both investigating disappearances. If you answer my questions, I'll answer yours.
SECURITY: I have an order to transfer this patient to Division six.
YERID: Division six?
SURGEON: Neuropathology?
SECURITY: We believe that he's mentally ill.
CHAKOTAY: He's lying. How could they know that? They've never examined me.
YERID: I'll come with you.
SECURITY: I'm sorry, sir, but my orders are to bring him for immediate treatment.
YERID: This man is a suspect in a serious crime. I'm not letting him out of my sight.
SECURITY: If you check that order, you'll see it's been approved by the Director of Investigations.
CHAKOTAY: My real name is Chakotay. I'm an officer aboard the Federation starship Voyager. Members of my crew were abducted and their memories were altered, and they were put to work here. I can give you names, descriptions. Listen to me!

[Mess hall]
TORRES: Smells good.
NEELIX: Pancakes with maple syrup are your favorite breakfast. You know, sometimes food is like time travel. You inhale an aroma, take a bite of something and suddenly, bam! You're back at the moment you first tasted it.
TORRES: They're good. I'm not experiencing time travel.
NEELIX: What are you reading?
TORRES: Personal logs.
NEELIX: Do you remember recording any of them?
TORRES: They're not mine. They're Tom's.
NEELIX: Those are supposed to be private.
TORRES: Well, he is my husband.
NEELIX: What do they say?
TORRES: They're private. But the way he describes me.
NEELIX: He loves you.
TORRES: I guess so.
NEELIX: How do you feel?
TORRES: It's still a little foggy.
NEELIX: That fog should lift as soon as the Doctor finishes your treatments.
TORRES: Yeah, but what about the guy who recorded these logs?

[Ready room]
EMH: I've been analyzing our scans of the Quarren patrol ships that attacked us, and I think I've devised a way of evading their sensors.
KIM: You do have a knack for tactical planning.
EMH: That's something I've been meaning to discuss with you. Once we've succeeded in this mission, and I'm certain we will, I'd like you to help me program a new medical hologram.
KIM: You don't like the idea of going back to your old job now that you've had a taste of command.
EMH: I'm a skilled officer.
KIM: No offense, Doc, but that skill was programmed into you.
EMH: Yes.
KIM: I'm sure once you're back to your old self, you'll be happy being a full-time doctor again. Commander Chakotay's hailing us. We're receiving you, sir. Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I'm having trouble with my transceiver. This may be to last chance we have to talk.
KIM: What's your status?

[Quarren Medical Facility]
CHAKOTAY: I'm almost ready to shut down the shield grid. I'm sending you encrypted instructions. They'll tell you where and when to enter orbit.
KIM (voiceover): We have it, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay out.
KADAN: Well, now you that you know where to find Voyager
COYOTE: I'll have three ships with me. They won't escape again.
SUPERVISOR: If you'd done your job the first time, we wouldn't have a problem now.
KADAN: Don't you have patients to attend to?
RAVOC: Yes, sir. I've been thinking. This is the second person we've admitted with dysphoria syndrome in two days and they both work at the power plant. Maybe we should issue a health alert, examine the rest of the workers.
KADAN: Do you think I'm incompetent?
RAVOC: Sir?
KADAN: This man is in charge of personnel at the power facility. I've informed him of the situation.
SUPERVISOR: We're already taking steps to ensure the safety of all our employees.
RAVOC: I'm sorry to have bothered you.
KADAN: No need to apologize, Doctor. Your concern for your patients is admirable. But don't worry. This man is already responding to treatment. I expect a full recovery.

[Bar]
YERID: Why would this Tuvok be collecting information about his co-workers?
SEVEN: I don't know. But the name on one of those files is B'Elanna Torres. They both began working at the plant on the same day along with one hundred thirty six others, including myself.
YERID: What's unusual about that?
SEVEN: More than a hundred skilled employees, most of them the same species, acquired in a single day, during a labor shortage. You'll also note that every one of them was processed with the Central Hospital when they arrived.
YERID: It's routine for new workers to be examined.
SEVEN: Yes, by Quarantine Control. but everyone on this list all of them were processed through Division six.
YERID: You came through Neuropathology?
SEVEN: That's what the records indicate, but I don't remember being there.
YERID: What do you expect me to do?
SEVEN: You can start by interviewing Mister Tuvok. You'll find him at the hospital.
YERID: Why is he there?
SEVEN: He became emotionally unstable.
YERID: Even if I wanted to help you, I couldn't.
SEVEN: Why not?
YERID: The Director of Investigations relieved me of duty this morning.
PARIS: Yerid? I thought that was you. Have you found out anything about B'Elanna?
SEVEN: He can't assist you. He's been relieved of duty.
PARIS: Oh.
SEVEN: This man's also in Tuvok's file.
PARIS: What file?
SEVEN: Why don't you tell him?
PARIS: Tell me what?
YERID: I can't go back to the hospital and start asking questions. I'd be reported.
SEVEN: Maybe I can help.

[Ravoc's consulting room]
SEVEN: Recently, I've been
RAVOC: I'm a doctor. You can trust me.
SEVEN: I've been experiencing some disturbing thoughts. I don't believe it's anything serious, but I would like to speak with someone.
RAVOC: Well, you've come to the right place.
SEVEN: Guest labor code green. Employee eight five eight six.
RAVOC: Hansen, Annika. You've been a patient here before.
SEVEN: Yes, when I first arrived.
RAVOC: You were treated for dysphoria syndrome.
SEVEN: I don't recall that.
RAVOC: These disturbing thoughts you mentioned. Would you characterize them as hallucinations?
SEVEN: What's the cause of this syndrome?
RAVOC: We're conducting studies to determine that. Fortunately, we have one of the foremost experts on the condition working here.
SEVEN: I'd like to speak with this expert.
RAVOC: Doctor Kadan's very busy.
SEVEN: So am I. Perhaps I should return when he's free.
RAVOC: Wait here. I'll find him.

[Jaffen's apartment]
JAFFEN: Yes?
YERID: My name is Yerid. I'm from Criminal Investigations.
JAFFEN: how can I help you?
YERID: Kathryn Janeway?
JANEWAY: Yes?
YERID: Do you know this man?
JANEWAY: No.
YERID: I thought maybe you'd met him.
JANEWAY: Why?
YERID: He was found in your former living quarters in possession of a dermal regenerator that you removed from the plant.
JAFFEN: I was the one who helped him.
JANEWAY: Jaffen. He said he was from a starship, and that members of his crew had been abducted.
JAFFEN: He was obviously lying.
YERID: I want to know everything he told you.

[Ravoc's consulting room]
KADAN: How could she just walk out?
RAVOC: She was a voluntary patient. There was no reason for security to stop her. She accessed sixty four restricted files, all of them for people diagnosed with dysphoria syndrome. According to the records, those patients were all admitted on the same day, and you're listed as the attending physician in every case.
KADAN: Oh, yes, I remember. Quite, quite an outbreak.
RAVOC: You've never mentioned it.
KADAN: Well, I'm sorry if I haven't kept you properly informed about my patients.
RAVOC: Everyone of them was discharged to the main Power Authority. That supervisor you were talking to, that's where he worked.
KADAN: I explained that to you. I was informing him about a potential health threat.
RAVOC: That plant worker, Amal Kotay. He claimed that his friends had been abducted and put to work after having their memories altered.
KADAN: What are you implying?
RAVOC: You're making false diagnoses. Selectively changing what people remember, and then sending them to work at the power plant.
KADAN: Very good, Doctor.
RAVOC: Why?
KADAN: A physician with more experience would be able to see this in the larger context. The true public health threat is the labor shortage, and the only cure is to find more skilled workers.
RAVOC: We're doctors. We're not supposed to harm patients.
KADAN: We're helping them to lead productive, happy lives.
RAVOC: By altering their memories?
KADAN: The treatment I provide improves their lives and makes them better workers. In turn, our economy benefits.
RAVOC: You're profiting from this, aren't you?
KADAN: Doesn't a physician deserve to be compensated for his services?
RAVOC: I'll report you.
KADAN: To whom? My research is funded by the Ministry of Health.
RAVOC: Well, Criminal Investigations, then.
KADAN: As you may recall, the Director of Investigations was the one who ordered Amal Kotay be placed under my care.
RAVOC: Does everyone know about this?
KADAN: Not everyone. Just a few trusted associates. The question is, are you going to be one of them?

[Bar]
SECURITY: She's considered dangerous.
PARIS: She's never been in here.
SECURITY: You're sure?
PARIS: I don't think I'd forget that face.
SECURITY: If you do see her, report it immediately. She needs to be hospitalized.
PARIS: It's safe now.
SEVEN: Thank you.
PARIS: Well, if you really want to thank me, you can tell me what's going on.
SEVEN: It appears this Chakotay was telling the truth.
JAFFEN: So every worker at the plant had their memories altered?
SEVEN: I don't believe it's every worker. Your name didn't appear in Doctor Kadan's patient files, But mine did. So did yours.
PARIS: We should report this to the authorities.
YERID: I'll need more evidence before I start making accusations.
JANEWAY: Chakotay said he had proof of my real identity aboard a ship called Voyager.
SEVEN: How can we locate it?
JANEWAY: When his crew contacted him, they were using a triaxialating frequency on a covariant subspace band.
SEVEN: There's a subspace transponder at the power plant.
JANEWAY: I'm going back to the plant to try to contact this ship. I understand if you don't want to be involved.
JAFFEN: I've been involved from the moment I met you.
SEVEN: If I were to return to the hospital in your custody, it would give us an opportunity to help Chakotay and Tuvok.

[Quarren Medical Facility]
YERID: I had to sedate her. She wouldn't come voluntarily.
KADAN: Her condition's obviously worsened. I'll treat her.
YERID: There are some other patients I'd like to interview.
KADAN: These people can't be disturbed.
SEVEN: I suggest you comply.

[Power Distribution Plant]
JAFFEN: Be careful.

[Bridge]
NEELIX: We're being hailed.
EMH: On screen.
JANEWAY (screen): Starship Voyager
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY (screen): Why don't you just call me Kathryn?
KIM: Yes, ma'am. Where's Commander Chakotay?
JANEWAY (screen): Hospitalized.

[Power Distribution Plant]
JANEWAY: He told me you had proof of who some of us really are.
TORRES (screen): We do.
JANEWAY: You're the woman who was abducted.
TORRES (screen): Chakotay was supposed to deactivate the shield grid so we could transport you and the others to safety. If you could find a way to shut down main power, the shield grid will go down too.
KIM (screen): Will you help us?

[Bridge]
EMH: We're under attack. Three ships.

[Power Distribution Plant]
KIM (screen): Please, shut down the shield.
JANEWAY: Jaffen?
SUPERVISOR: Stop!
SUPERVISOR: Don't move!
SECURITY: Stay where you are.
JAFFEN: I hope you didn't think I abandoned you.
JANEWAY: Never occurred to me. We need to shut down the main generators.

[Bridge]
KIM: So much for evading their sensors.
EMH: The only way they could've found us is if they knew exactly where to look.
TORRES: Transporters are offline.

[Power Distribution Plant]
WOMAN: Evacuate.
MAN: I'm getting it shut down.
JAFFEN: We'll never get to the generator controls.
JANEWAY: Maybe we don't have to.
JAFFEN: What are you doing?
JANEWAY: If I can make the computer think the core is going to overload, the main power should automatically shut down.

[Quarren Medical Facility]
YERID: Ask them to give us some privacy.
KADAN: You're dismissed.
YERID: Disconnect them.
SEVEN: Doctor Ravoc. Why is this man here?
KADAN: Dysphoria syndrome.

[Bridge]
NEELIX: We're losing shields.
KIM: Any advice from your tactical database?
EMH: Nothing relevant.
KIM: How many escape pods do we have left?
TORRES: Five.
KIM: Stand by to eject three of them.
EMH: I don't think abandoning ship is the answer.
KIM: Neither do I. Can you create a dampening field around the briefing room that'll mask our lifesigns?
EMH: I believe so. Why?
KIM: Watch and learn.
COYOTE (screen): Your crew's abandoned you again. I suggest you surrender your vessel.
EMH: You should realize by now that I'm not programmed to do that.
EMH: Bravo, Ensign.
KIM: B'Elanna, I need those transporters.

[Power Distribution Plant]
JAFFEN: You'd better hurry up.
JANEWAY: Come on, do it.
COMPUTER: Warning. Core overload detected. Initiating emergency shutdown.

[Bridge]
NEELIX: The shield grid's failing.
KIM: B'Elanna?
TORRES: Transporters are coming online now.

[Briefing room]
AMBASSADOR: If it weren't for your efforts, this whole conspiracy might never have been uncovered.
KIM: What'll happen to the workers?
YERID: Well, we've identified several thousand of Doctor Kadan's patients. Once they're treated, they'll be repatriated.
EMH: We appreciate everything you've done.
NEELIX: This way.

[Torres-Paris's quarters]
PARIS: What's that for?
TORRES: For taking care of me, even when you didn't know who I was.
PARIS: Ow! What was that for?
TORRES: Flirting with your customers.
PARIS: I was a victim of mind control.

[Ready room]
JAFFEN: I can see why you'd rather live here.
JANEWAY: I'd offer you a position. I could always use another skilled Engineer. But as the captain, it wouldn't really be appropriate for me to
JAFFEN: Fraternize with a member of your crew. Well, at least my memories weren't tampered with. According to the medical reports, I really did come to Quarra looking for a better life. And now that I've been promoted, I guess I've succeeded.
JANEWAY: Promotion?
JAFFEN: They had to replace our shift supervisor. Something about acquiring workers illegally.
JANEWAY: Congratulations. You deserve it.
JAFFEN: I thought you might like these back, to remind you of our time together.
JANEWAY: I won't need souvenirs to remember you.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain on the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Ready to go?
JANEWAY: It may not have been real, Chakotay, but it felt like home. If you hadn't come after me, I never would've known that I had another life.
CHAKOTAY: Are you sorry I showed up?
JANEWAY: Not for a second. Resume course, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Aye, sir.

[Mess hall]
TORRES: Feels heavy. Baby's first tricorder?
TUVOK: Not exactly.
TORRES: Thank you, I'm sure she'll love it. What is it?
TUVOK: A pleenok. Vulcans use them to train their infants in primary logic.
PARIS: Never too early to train those synapses, eh, Tuvok? Let me see that. I love a good puzzle.
NEELIX: This one's from Mister Kim.
TORRES: Starfleet diapers.
KIM: Standard issue.
PARIS: Well, we know who to call if there's a containment breach.
JANEWAY: Now that your Borg implants have been removed, you might think about having children of your own one day.
SEVEN: One day. I have been considering some less radical changes in my personal life.
JANEWAY: Such as?
SEVEN: I realize I don't have a rank, but I would like to request a uniform.
JANEWAY: Consider it done. The Doctor tells me you don't need to regenerate any more. I can arrange some quarters for you, unless you enjoy curling up in the Cargo Bay.
SEVEN: A bed would be more comfortable. Since I arrived on Voyager, your guidance has been invaluable. Thank you, Captain.
JANEWAY: All I did was chart the course. You're the one who made the journey.
CHAKOTAY: Seven, it's traditional for everyone to share their best wishes for the baby. I thought you might like to start.
SEVEN: To the newest member of our crew. May all her desires be fulfilled except for one, so she'll always have something to strive for.
JANEWAY: Very good.
ALL: Hear, hear.
SEVEN: And may she inherit a sense of logic from her mother.
KIM: I'll drink to that.

[Bridge]
PARIS: That was strange.
CHAKOTAY: Care to explain?
PARIS: I wish I could. Long range sensors picked up an energy discharge, but now it's gone. There. There's another one.
TUVOK: They're occurring approximately five point nine light years ahead.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
TUVOK: We're too far away to get a clear reading.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Seven of Nine.

[Mess hall]
SEVEN: Go ahead.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Report to the Astrometrics lab.
SEVEN: Acknowledged. Computer, end program.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I wasn't able to find the cause of the discharges, but the region ahead contains unusual amounts of subspace radiation and metallic debris.
TUVOK: Vessels?
SEVEN: Not within range. But I'll have more data once we move closer.
JANEWAY: I see no reason to alter course. Keep an eye on your sensors.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY: Now, on to more pressing matters. Does B'Elanna suspect anything?
PARIS: Not a clue.
JANEWAY: Good. Mess hall, fourteen hundred hours, be on time. I don't want to spoil the surprise. I expect both of you to show up.
SEVEN: I'll be busy here.
PARIS: What's wrong, Seven? No baby showers in the Collective?
JANEWAY: I'm sure you can spare a few minutes.
TUVOK: If it's any consolation, I share your discomfort with social gatherings.
SEVEN: They seem to occur with alarming frequency.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix would argue that they improve morale.
SEVEN: I have been looking for ways to improve my social skills. Perhaps I'll attend.

[Holodeck - Seven's quarters]
NEELIX: Well, it certainly is efficient. No clutter, plenty of room to move around. But it's a little impersonal, don't you think?
SEVEN: Explain.
NEELIX: Well, these are your quarters, Seven. They should reflect your individuality. How about a table and a couple of chairs? Give yourself a place to work, entertain guests. Try to add a little color. Photographs, artwork, knick-knacks.
SEVEN: Knick-knacks?
NEELIX: Little things, like the wood carvings in Ensign Kim's quarters.
SEVEN: I've never been to Ensign Kim's quarters. But I suppose I could replicate some items and disperse them throughout the room.
NEELIX: That's a start. Some people like to display pictures of family and friends.
SEVEN: There's a photograph of my parents in the ship's database. I'll make a copy and place it in a frame.
NEELIX: Good, good.
SEVEN: A multispectral star chart might enhance this bulkhead.
NEELIX: Or a painting.
SEVEN: A painting of a star chart.
NEELIX: I was thinking of something more abstract, more artistic. Drapes. Nothing livens up a room like good window dressing. Not to mention the added privacy.
SEVEN: Privacy? We're in space.
NEELIX: You never know when we'll be docking at a crowded space port. But we'll have to make sure that they match the carpet. I'm thinking of a Talaxian mosaic. Tulaberry blue stripes with an orange inlay.
SEVEN: I appreciate your esthetic insights, but I believe I can proceed on my own.
SEVEN: Enter.
CHAKOTAY: Am I interrupting?
SEVEN: Please come in.
CHAKOTAY: Love what you've done with the place.
SEVEN: We're in the process of decorating.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe this will help. Consider it a housewarming gift.
NEELIX: It's beautiful. What is it?
SEVEN: A dream catcher. According to Native American mythology, it wards off nightmares.
CHAKOTAY: I'm impressed.
SEVEN: I've familiarized myself with your culture.
CHAKOTAY: Now that you'll be sleeping instead of regenerating, I thought it might come in handy.
SEVEN: I'm sure it will. Thank you.
NEELIX: I'll let you two find a place to hang that, but it would look perfect right above the bed. Pleasant dreams.
SEVEN: It was thoughtful of you to stop by.
CHAKOTAY: On move in day? I wouldn't miss it.
SEVEN: I suppose this makes you my inaugural guest. I'd be a negligent host if I didn't offer you a beverage. Tea?
CHAKOTAY: That might be difficult. No replicator.
SEVEN: Another flaw in the decor.
CHAKOTAY: I'll requisition one for you first thing tomorrow.
SEVEN: I'd appreciate that, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay. We're off duty. We can drop the formalities.
SEVEN: Yes, sir.
CHAKOTAY: I enjoyed your toast today. You've come a long way. I hope to see more.
SEVEN: You will.
CHAKOTAY: Good night.
SEVEN: Chakotay. As you might know I've taken an interest in culinary science. I'm preparing a meal tomorrow night, and I thought perhaps you could attend to evaluate my work.
CHAKOTAY: I'd be happy to.
SEVEN: Nineteen hundred hours?
CHAKOTAY: I'll bring the wine and the furniture.
SEVEN: Then you accept?
CHAKOTAY: It's a date.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Rock-a-bye baby, in the space dock. When the core blows, the shuttle will rock. When the hull breaks, the shuttle will fall. And down will come baby, shuttle and all.
SEVEN: Are you trying to soothe the infant, or traumatize her?
EMH: The lyrics are rather grim, but it's the melody they respond to. I recorded twenty nine in all, including a couple of Klingon lullabies. My favorite is 'quong vaj Ocht. Sleep, little warrior. I could tell by the look on their faces that my gift made quite an impression.
SEVEN: No doubt.
EMH: I wish you'd been there. It was a lovely shower. Tom and B'Elanna were disappointed that you didn't attend.
SEVEN: I was occupied.
EMH: Are you experiencing any shoulder pain?
SEVEN: Yes.
EMH: Hmm. Your biradial clamp is out of alignment by point three microns. I'm afraid it will have to be repaired.
SEVEN: Can't you simply extract the component?
EMH: Not if you want to keep using that arm. I know it's an inconvenience, but until we can find a way to remove your cybernetic systems, they'll have to be maintained. It's a minor procedure. We might as well take care of it now.
SEVEN: I prefer to wait.
EMH: We'll be done in an hour.
SEVEN: I have research to complete.
EMH: Oh. I suppose we can put it off until next week's physical. I also noticed that your electrolyte levels are down by twelve percent. Have you missed any regeneration cycles?
SEVEN: Last night.
EMH: Don't tell me. More research? This must be some project. Mind if I ask what you're working on?
SEVEN: It's complicated.
EMH: How do you mean?
SEVEN: My personal life is none of your concern.
EMH: I wasn't aware you had a personal life.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report.
PARIS: It was an energy discharge, two hundred thousand kilometers starboard.
TUVOK: It produced a level nine shockwave.
CHAKOTAY: Some kind of weapon?
TUVOK: Possibly.
PARIS: Another one, five million kilometers to port.
TUVOK: A shockwave is approaching.
JANEWAY: Full power to the shields.
KIM: Our warp field's destabilizing.
TUVOK: I'm detecting another. Distance, fifty thousand kilometers.
JANEWAY: Turn our bow into the wavefront. It'll minimize the damage.
PARIS: Sorry, Captain. There wasn't enough time.
KIM: We've lost warp drive.
TUVOK: I'm reading another. Distance, twenty six million kilometers. Too far to pose a threat.
CHAKOTAY: If they are weapons, they don't seem to be directed at us.
JANEWAY: Or whoever's firing them is a lousy shot.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Astrometric sensors recorded the explosions. I believe it's a long range subspace warhead. The debris in this region suggests that dozens have been fired in the last several weeks.
TUVOK: The warhead destroyed something. What was it?
SEVEN: It appeared to be an unmanned probe.
JANEWAY: This is all very intriguing, but I'd just as soon get out of here before we cross paths with another one of these things. Where do we stand on repairs?
TUVOK: Subspace radiation from the explosions is making it difficult to create a stable warp field. Lieutenant Torres estimates forty eight hours.
JANEWAY: Can you find a way to detect the warheads before they emerge from subspace?
SEVEN: I believe so. The weapons create minor gravimetric distortions as they approach the subspace barrier. But I need to recalibrate my sensors to isolate the effect.
JANEWAY: Do it. Even a few seconds' warning would help us.
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
SEVEN: Your duty shift doesn't begin for two hours.
ICHEB: The Doctor sent me to relieve you early. He wants you to spend more time regenerating.
SEVEN: I see he's enlisted an ally.
ICHEB: Don't kill the messenger. Sophocles, Oedipus Rex. I've been studying Earth literature as a part of my Academy training.
SEVEN: Continue these scans of the subspace barrier. Look for any gravimetric distortions.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Run another diagnostic on the injector ports. Make sure they're aligned.
KIM: They're aligned, I checked.
TORRES: Check again. Come to join the party? We're trying to cold start the warp core for the fifteenth time.
SEVEN: Perhaps this will enhance your day. It's a belated gift for your baby shower. I apologize for my absence.
TORRES: Oh.
SEVEN: Proceed.
SEVEN: They're lined with biothermal insulation. Your infant's feet will be protected even if the external temperature drops below minus forty degrees Celsius.
TORRES: Well, they're certainly unique. Thank you.
SEVEN: You're welcome. I wish to ask you a personal question.
TORRES: Shoot.
SEVEN: You have an appealing coiffure. What is your grooming regimen?
TORRES: You're asking me what I do with my hair?
SEVEN: Yes.
TORRES: Um, well, nothing too elaborate. Sonic shower, a little engine grease. Thinking about a new look?
SEVEN: Perhaps. I'll keep you apprised, if you'd like.
TORRES: Please do.
TORRES: Was that Seven of Nine?
KIM: There must be an alien intruder on board.

[Holodeck - Seven's quarters]
SEVEN: Computer, make the following modifications to holodeck file Seven of Nine alpha three, personal quarters.
COMPUTER: Modifications complete.
SEVEN: Begin program.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: You look perfect. Give me a hand with this?
SEVEN: I'm surprised your Starfleet training didn't include cork extraction.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I must have been sick that day.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Looks like wine's off the menu.
SEVEN: Unless you brought a phaser.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Never on the first date.
SEVEN: Assist me. Slice these vegetables transversally in five millimeter increments.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Aye, aye.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: That smells delicious.
SEVEN: Our appetizer is braised leeks. Primary course, rack of lamb with wild rice.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: No dessert?
SEVEN: Dessert will be a surprise.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I can't wait.
SEVEN: Does this contain enough sodium chloride for your taste?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Could use another point six milligrams. But you're the chef.
SEVEN: I concur. More salt.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Liszt?
SEVEN: Chopin. I've discovered that classical music has intriguing mathematical properties.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Do you play an instrument?
SEVEN: The Doctor's been giving me piano lessons.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I'd love to hear you play.
SEVEN: I require more practice.
SEVEN: Your technique is flawed.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Sorry. I'm a replicator man.
SEVEN: Use your left hand to guide the food. Observe closely. Pay attention to the vegetable.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: You're beautiful when you're chopping. I don't mean to sound like an old holonovel, but you've got a wonderful smile.
SEVEN: It wasn't a smile. It was a smirk.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Oh no, it was a smile. I could check the internal sensors if you'd like.
SEVEN: Remain still.
SEVEN: You have an intriguing facial structure.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I'll take that as a compliment.
SEVEN: I require more practice.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: You're doing just fine.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: What's wrong?
SEVEN: Nothing.

[Seven's dream]
EMH: I wasn't aware you had a personal life.

[Holodeck - Seven's quarters]
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Seven of Nine.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Chakotay to Seven, respond.
SEVEN: Go ahead.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Report to Astrometrics. We've found something.
SEVEN: Yes, Commander.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Good morning.

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: Good morning.
SEVEN: You've found something?
CHAKOTAY: At first, we thought it was another one of the probes. Then Icheb picked up an automated transmission. It's a warning beacon.
VOICE (voiceover): You have entered subspace munitions range four three four. Evacuate immediately.
ICHEB: Apparently, this entire region is an alien testing ground.
CHAKOTAY: We've been sending out emergency hails, but so far no response. Whoever's conducting these tests could be dozens of light years away. Any progress detecting their warheads?
SEVEN: Not yet.
CHAKOTAY: You seem a little distracted.
SEVEN: I'm fine.
CHAKOTAY: It's not like you to be late for a duty shift. Rough night?
SEVEN: Not at all.
CHAKOTAY: I'll be on the bridge if you find anything.
ICHEB: Better late than never. Titus Livius, A History of Rome.
SEVEN: You're relieved. Get some rest.

[Holodeck - Music room]
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Bravo.
SEVEN: You approve?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Approve? I'm amazed. I was expecting Chopsticks. I had no idea you were so good.
SEVEN: The Doctor's an efficient instructor.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: It won't be long before you're giving a recital for the entire crew.
SEVEN: The Doctor did suggest that I accompany him during his next operatic performance. Your turn.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Unfortunately, I don't play. But I'd love to hear you again and this is one of my favorites.
SEVEN: You want me to stop?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: No. I want you to play.
SEVEN: I don't understand.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Look, your technique is flawless. But try to put a little more heart into the piece. More of yourself.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: That's all right. Keep going. Tell me what you're feeling.
SEVEN: My tempo is erratic.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Not what you're thinking, what you're feeling. Your emotions.
SEVEN: Frustration, anxiety.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Stop thinking about the notes. Just play.
SEVEN: I can't.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Yes, you can. Don't you see what's happening? The metronome is holding you back. It gives you a sense of order, but it also cuts you off from your feelings. Remember when you first came aboard? The thought of disconnecting from the hive mind terrified you. This is no different. It doesn't have to be perfect.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Eight hundred thousand kilometers off the starboard bow.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN (voiceover): Go ahead, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: We need those sensor calibrations.

[Holodeck - Music room]
SEVEN: I'll need a moment to return to my station.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: That would be a good idea.
PARIS: Hull fracture, deck twelve.
JANEWAY: Seven of Nine, report.
SEVEN (voiceover): Stand by, Captain.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Lieutenant Paris, isolate subspace band omicron theta.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Acknowledged.
SEVEN (voiceover): Direct your sensors to

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Coordinates one seven eight mark two six.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Nothing there.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Correction, one seven eight mark three six.

[Bridge]
PARIS: I can see them. Two warheads are about to emerge. Adjusting course.
JANEWAY: Full power to the forward shields.
PARIS: Impact in five, four, three, two.
PARIS: Shields are holding.
JANEWAY: Why wasn't Seven at her post?
CHAKOTAY: Good question. Maybe you should ask her.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: It was your responsibility to locate those warheads.
SEVEN: I succeeded.
JANEWAY: Not before we took heavy damage. You told Chakotay you'd have those sensor calibrations hours ago.
SEVEN: The work took longer than I anticipated.
JANEWAY: It might've gone faster if you'd stayed at your post, as you were ordered to do.
SEVEN: I didn't realize I was confined to the Astrometrics lab.
JANEWAY: You were on duty. This isn't the first time you've left your station over the past few days. Holodeck two? You've logged a lot of time in there. Mind if I ask why? Well, it must be something important, Seven. Forty nine hours in six days.
SEVEN: I was running a simulation.
JANEWAY: Of what?
SEVEN: A new gravimetric array I've been developing. I wanted to perfect the design before I brought it to you.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your efforts to improve our systems, but I can't have you dividing your time right now. When the ship's on alert I expect you to perform your duties. If you need to leave your post, inform Commander Chakotay. Understood?
SEVEN: Yes, Captain. I apologize for my lapse in judgment.
JANEWAY: We all make mistakes, Seven. I've even been known to make a few myself. It sounds intriguing, your new gravimetric array. When this crisis is over I'd be happy to take a look. Maybe I can lend a hand.

[Astrometrics lab]
ICHEB: I've analyzed the sensor data from that last barrage. I've refined your detection method. We'll be able to see the weapons ten point three seconds earlier.
SEVEN: The Captain will be pleased.
ICHEB: Have I offended you?
SEVEN: No. You've done nothing wrong. I was negligent in my duties. As a result, Voyager was nearly destroyed. I was hoping you could provide a quotation to help alleviate my guilt.
ICHEB: I, I can't think of one, but I'd be happy to search the database.
SEVEN: That won't be necessary. Stay here until I return.
ICHEB: Where are you going?
SEVEN: To correct an error.

[Holodeck - Seven's quarters]
SEVEN: Computer, activate Chakotay simulation.
SEVEN: Come in.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I hope you're not allergic. Antarian moon blossoms, extremely rare. I had to smuggle them out of Airponics. Don't tell Neelix. I thought I'd cook for you tonight. How does roasted chicken sound? I slaved over the replicator for hours. Not hungry?
SEVEN: I called you here to thank you.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: For what?
SEVEN: The past few days have been memorable.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: To say the least. You're ending this.
SEVEN: In a manner of speaking, yes.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Why?
SEVEN: Our relationship is interfering with my responsibilities on Voyager.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I could speak to the Captain, have her cut back on your duty shifts. Seven, the past few days have been more than memorable. They've been an important step forward for both of us. Don't throw that away.
SEVEN: I'm sorry, Commander.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: You're making a mistake.
SEVEN: No, I'm trying to correct one.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Ask yourself why you want to end this. Is it out of a sense of duty, or something else? Every time you move closer to your emotions, you back away. Like hiding behind that metronome.
SEVEN: Your analogy is flawed.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Is it? I think you're afraid that embracing your humanity will make you weak, less than perfect. But think about what you stand to gain.
SEVEN: It's irrelevant.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: No, it's not. Real intimacy with another person? Nothing's more relevant.
SEVEN: I must return to my station.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Stay here with me.
SEVEN: This ship needs me.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: So do I.
SEVEN: I can't function this way.
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: You're not a drone anymore, you're human.
SEVEN: Stop!
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: Seven, what's wrong?
SEVEN: Sickbay, medical emergency.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Seven? Computer, locate Seven of Nine.
COMPUTER: Seven of Nine is in Holodeck two.

[Holodeck - Seven's quarters]
EMH: What happened?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: We were having an argument, then she just collapsed.
EMH: Her cortical node is shutting down. She's going into neural shock. And what happened to her facial implants?
HOLO-CHAKOTAY: I thought you removed all her cybernetic systems.
EMH: Computer, end program.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: Commander?
EMH: If you're looking for your other holographic friend, he's offline at the moment. Your cortical node began to shut down. Fortunately, I managed to stabilize it before there was any permanent damage.
SEVEN: It was functioning properly when you examined me two days ago.
EMH: I'm going to run a diagnostic on your entire cortical array, but it might help if I knew what you were doing before you collapsed. Did you suffer a physical injury of some kind?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: Were you exposed to any unusual radiation?
SEVEN: No.
EMH: What exactly were you doing in there?
SEVEN: Research.
EMH: That simulation of Commander Chakotay mentioned that the two of you were having an argument. Was that part of your research? I couldn't help but notice that you'd created some quarters for yourself. A new dress, dinner for two.
SEVEN: I trust you'll respect doctor-patient confidentiality.
EMH: Of course.
SEVEN: I've been conducting simulations to explore different aspects of my humanity.
EMH: Such as?
SEVEN: Social activities, friendships with the crew, intimate relations.
EMH: I take it our First Officer is your romantic interest.
SEVEN: Commander Chakotay seemed like an appropriate choice. He has many admirable qualities.
EMH: So he does. What prompted all this?
SEVEN: Unimatrix Zero. I've been trying to recreate some of the experiences I had there. Ever since it was destroyed, my life has seemed incomplete. I wanted to feel those emotions again.
EMH: Well, this is encouraging. You might be ready to start forming deeper relationships. I'm proud of you, Seven.
SEVEN: Your pride is misplaced. I intend to delete the programs.
EMH: Why?
SEVEN: I can no longer perform my duties efficiently. My personal life has become a distraction.
EMH: It's supposed to be a distraction. You simply have to find the right balance between work and recreation.
SEVEN: Inform me when you finish the diagnostic.
EMH: Seven. For what it's worth, you have excellent taste. Your quarters. They suited you.

[Engineering]
KIM: Antimatter flow stable, injector ports aligned. That should do it.
TORRES: Torres to the bridge. Looks like we've got warp drive back.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Well done. Tom.
PARIS: With pleasure.
PARIS: I'm detecting another subspace warhead.
JANEWAY: Range?
PARIS: Twelve million kilometers, closing from astern.
CHAKOTAY: Red alert. Where's the target probe?
PARIS: It's on a totally different trajectory.
TUVOK: When we engaged the engines, the warhead must have diverted from its target and locked onto our warp signature.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers.
PARIS: It's matching our course. Eight million kilometers.
JANEWAY: Can you get a weapon's lock?
TUVOK: Affirmative.
JANEWAY: Photon torpedoes, full spread.
TUVOK: Our torpedoes have been neutralized.
PARIS: Five million kilometers.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN (voiceover): Here, Captain.
JANEWAY: Can you get me anything on

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY (voiceover): The warhead's internal circuitry?
SEVEN: Stand by. I have it.
JANEWAY (voiceover): What can you tell me about the detonator?
SEVEN: The weapon is armed with proximity resonance circuitry.
JANEWAY (voiceover): What's the activation frequency?
SEVEN: Four point eight four gigahertz.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I may be able to disarm it with an anti-resonance pulse.
JANEWAY: Do it.
PARIS: Two million kilometers.
TUVOK: Initiating the pulse.
JANEWAY: Seven, status?

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: The warhead's rotating its activation frequency. It's still armed.

[Bridge]
PARIS: One million kilometers.
CHAKOTAY: Can you compensate?
TUVOK: Negative.
SEVEN (voiceover): Captain, I believe I can disarm

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: The warhead.
JANEWAY (voiceover): How?
SEVEN: By extracting the detonator with our transporter.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: At this velocity? The device is too small. You'd never get a lock.
SEVEN (voiceover): I can use the sub

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Micron imager to focus our targeting scanners. Please give me transporter control.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Eight hundred thousand.
JANEWAY: All right, Seven, it's up you.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: I have a lock. Energizing. The detonator's protected by tritanium shielding. I can penetrate it, but not at this distance. We'll have to wait until it's closer.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Five hundred thousand.
JANEWAY: Status.
SEVEN (voiceover): Not yet, Captain.
PARIS: Four

[Astrometrics lab]
PARIS (voiceover): Three, two. Brace for impact!

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Doctor. You've come to deliver unpleasant news.
EMH: Is it that obvious? I've completed my diagnostic. What you experienced was no malfunction. Your cortical node was designed to shut down your higher brain functions when you achieve a certain level of emotional stimulation.
SEVEN: Clarify.
EMH: It appears to be a fail-safe mechanism to deactivate drones who start to regain their emotions. Knowing the Borg, it makes perfect sense. Finding one's heart is the surest road to individuality.
SEVEN: I'm no longer linked to the hive mind.
EMH: The technology's built into your node. It simply remained dormant, until now.
SEVEN: Can you repair me?
EMH: Possibly. I've been thinking about a way to reconfigure the micro-circuitry. I won't lie to you, Seven. It would entail multiple surgeries, and the recovery might be difficult. But I believe we could eventually succeed. I'll prepare the surgical bay. We can begin tomorrow morning.
SEVEN: No.
EMH: Without the procedure, you won't be able to continue your simulations.
SEVEN: I've experienced enough humanity for the time being. They were only holographic fantasies, Doctor. An inefficient use of my time.
EMH: You don't really believe that.
SEVEN: The fail-safe device will insure that I'm no longer distracted.
EMH: That's the Borg talking, not you. As your physician. As your friend, I'm asking you to let me proceed.
SEVEN: I need to regenerate.
EMH: Seven.
SEVEN: Goodnight, Doctor.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Where's the fire?
SEVEN: Fire?
CHAKOTAY: You seem to be in a hurry.
SEVEN: I have to finish my report on the subspace warheads.
CHAKOTAY: The ship's out of danger, thanks to you. You've earned a break. Why don't you join me in the mess hall. Neelix is going to give a cooking lesson. Talaxian tenderloin in ten minutes.
SEVEN: I'm no longer interested in cooking.
CHAKOTAY: Then come for the company. B'Elanna's going to be there, Tuvok even promised to show up. It'll be fun.
SEVEN: I appreciate your offer. Another time perhaps.
CHAKOTAY: You know, you should try socializing with the crew a little more. It might do you some good.

[Ready room]
ICHEB: Though it was a blatant violation of the Prime Directive, Kirk saved the Pelosians from extinction, just as he had the Baezians and the Chenari many years earlier. Finally, in the year 2270, Kirk completed his historic five year mission and one of the greatest chapters in Starfleet history came to a close. A new chapter began when Kirk regained command of the Enterprise.
JANEWAY: How many more chapters are there?
ICHEB: Thirty four.
JANEWAY: This was supposed to be a twenty minute presentation.
ICHEB: I was trying to be thorough. I could shorten the report.
JANEWAY: That won't be necessary. You obviously know the subject matter. Congratulations, Cadet. You have just passed Early Starfleet History.
ICHEB: Thank you, Captain. I would have failed him. Kirk may have been a lowly human, but at least he had pizzazz. That report made him sound about as exciting as a Vulcan funeral dirge.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Security. Don't bother. I trapped your crew in a temporal loop. They keep experiencing the last thirty seconds over and over. Almost as monotonous as drone boy's essay.
JANEWAY: Who are you?
Q: I know he's grown since you last saw him, Kathy, but don't tell me you can't see the family resemblance. This is my son, Q. I'm a little hurt you didn't recognize Junior. You are his godmother, after all.
JANEWAY: The last time I saw him, he was an infant.
JUNIOR: Four years ago, in human time. You called me adorable.
JANEWAY: You remember?
JUNIOR: I may have looked like an infant, but I was still a Q. Maybe you should have picked a better godparent.
Q: I wonder if it's too late to ask Jean-Luc?
JANEWAY: What do you want, Q?
Q: Well, Junior's taking a little vacation from the Continuum. I recommended he spent it with you.
JANEWAY: Why?
Q: Oh, he's always been fascinated by the old man's stories about humanity. I thought it was time he had some first hand experience.
JANEWAY: I am flattered that you would entrust me with your first born, but I really don't have time.
Q: He's as quiet as a Zizznian church mouse. You'll forget he's even here.
JANEWAY: Well, if you're going to stay, we'll need to lay down a few ground rules.
JUNIOR: I make my own rules.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I'm not detecting either Q.
JANEWAY: I want to be alerted if they resurface. Keep running scans.
JUNIOR: Scan, scan, scan. That's all you people ever do. I've been through every deck on this ship, and do you know what I've seen? Bipeds pushing buttons. Bipeds replacing relays. Bipeds running diagnostics. When are you going to do something interesting?
JANEWAY: Say hello to Q, everyone.
JUNIOR: We could fly into fluidic space and fight species 8472. Or we could detonate a few Omega molecules. What do you say?
JANEWAY: No.
JUNIOR: Twenty minutes observing humanity, I'm already bored. I guess I'm just going to have to amuse myself.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres to the Captain. I need you in Engineering.

[Engineering]
JUNIOR: One dance, B'Elanna, that's all I ask. One dance.
TORRES: If he doesn't stop his little light show, the warp core's going to breach.
JUNIOR: Relax. It's a party.
JANEWAY: This party is over. Get your guests off my ship.
JUNIOR: I like you, Aunt Kathy. You've got gumption. But what you don't have is unlimited control of space, matter and time. Which means I give the orders around here.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: I could assemble a security team and attempt to take Engineering by force.
CHAKOTAY: We all know that wouldn't do any good.
TORRES: Besides, I'll bet that's exactly the kind of reaction he's hoping for.
JANEWAY: He's doing everything he can to get under our skin.
TUVOK: If we deny him the satisfaction of a response, he may become bored and return to the Continuum.

[Cargo Bay two]
JUNIOR: Talk about perfection.
SEVEN: If you're attempting to embarrass me, you won't succeed.
JUNIOR: I'm just observing humanity. Aren't you going to scamper away, make some futile attempt to cover yourself?

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Coffee, black.
COMPUTER: Make it yourself.
NEELIX: You can thank Q's son. He thought the computer needed more personality.
JANEWAY: Charming.
NEELIX: I've been giving some thought to the Q situation. Maybe ignoring him isn't the best solution.
JANEWAY: I'm open to suggestions.
NEELIX: He may be omnipotent, but he's still a young man in need of guidance. Perhaps if someone were to approach him as a friend.
JANEWAY: You think he needs a mentor.
NEELIX: Exactly.
JANEWAY: Are you volunteering?
NEELIX: Well, I am good with children.
JANEWAY: Q is no ordinary child.
NEELIX: I'm no ordinary mentor.

[Astrometrics lab]
JUNIOR: Can I help you, kitchen rat?
NEELIX: I thought you and I could spend some time together.
JUNIOR: Ah! Excellent maneuver.
NEELIX: What are you watching?
JUNIOR: What's it look like? It's a battle between the Vojeans and Wyngari.
NEELIX: We past through that region a few months ago. They were at peace.
JUNIOR: Not any more. Watch this.
NEELIX: You have to stop this.
JUNIOR: It's not like there's anything else to do.
NEELIX: We could play Kadis-kot.
JUNIOR: Are there explosions in Kadis-kot?
NEELIX: Well, no.
JUNIOR: Then I'm not interested.
NEELIX: Instead of hurting people, maybe you could help them. The Wyngari are suffering a food shortage on their world. Maybe you could use your powers to
JUNIOR: You know what, Talaxian? You talk to much.

[Sickbay]
EMH: His jaw's been fused and his vocal cords removed. I might be able to undo some of the cosmetic damage, but only Q can restore his voice.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the bridge. Report.
JUNIOR (voiceover): I've got a surprise for you, Captain. Come see.

[Bridge]
JUNIOR: Q said I should pay attention to how you humans react under pressure.
JUNIOR: Is this enough pressure?
CHAKOTAY: We're venting plasma.
JANEWAY: Reroute power to aft shields and return fire.
JUNIOR: You're just prolonging the inevitable.
JANEWAY: We've defeated the Borg before. We'll do it again.
JUNIOR: Not this time.
TUVOK: Weapons are offline.
PARIS: I'm losing thrusters.
KIM: Shields are down.
JUNIOR: We were just getting to the good part!
Q: If the Continuum's told you once, they've told you a thousand times. Don't provoke the Borg! Now, I want you to give Aunt Kathy your word you won't do it again.
JANEWAY: Oh, he won't do it again because he's leaving. Now.
Q: Excuse us, son. The grown-ups need a moment in private.

[Ready room]
Q: He isn't so bad once you get to know him. He's just misunderstood.
JANEWAY: He tried to kill my crew.
Q: No one was hurt, I repaired the damage to your ship. I even gave your pet Talaxian his vocal cords back. Everything's exactly as it was.
JANEWAY: And how long do you think it will take your son to come up with another way to amuse himself? If you knew he was dangerous, why did you send him here? Ah, is this another lesson for humanity?
Q: It's supposed to be a lesson for him. Think back to my last visit. I made you the offer of a lifetime.
JANEWAY: Asking me to mate with you was hardly the offer of a lifetime.
Q: If you hadn't turned me down, I wouldn't have been forced to mate with that other Q.
JANEWAY: Oh, get to the point.
Q: My point is, Junior was suppose to inspire peace and compassion. But instead of order, he's brought chaos. He's been starting wars among innocent species, tampering with primordial gene pools, punching holes in the fabric of space time.
JANEWAY: Where's his mother been during all this?
Q: She's been so humiliated by his antics she's disowned him. She's blamed me for everything. I've managed to undo most of the damage, but that wasn't good enough for the Continuum. They're hounding me to straighten the boy out. That's why I brought him here. In hopes that your vaunted Starfleet ideals would rub off on him. Obviously, that hasn't happened.
JANEWAY: You can't just dump your child on someone and hope he learns something.
Q: I can't?
JANEWAY: He needs to be parented.
Q: And how exactly am I supposed to do that? Q is the first child born in the Continuum, which makes me the first parent. I don't even know where to begin.
JANEWAY: You could start by spending time with him.
Q: Urgh.
JANEWAY: Parenthood is more than just cleaning up your child's messes. You need to set an example. It's the only way he'll learn.
Q: Of course. Once he begins to know me better, he'll idolize me. Then he'll do anything I say. Kathy
Q: You're a genius.

[Bridge]
PARIS: I've made a full sensor sweep. There's no sign of any more Borg vessels.
JANEWAY: The boy?
CHAKOTAY: He's gone.
JANEWAY: I am going to my quarters. You have the bridge.

[Janeway's bathroom]
Q: I take it back. You're not a genius. I should have known better than to take the advice of a human.
JANEWAY: Q!
Q: Your brilliant plan didn't work. I smothered the boy with attention, spent every waking moment with him. But things only got worse.
JANEWAY: You've been gone for less than ten minutes.
Q: On your temporal plane, maybe. But in Q time we've spent years together. Now he's embarrassed to be seen with me, and it's all your fault.
JANEWAY: My fault?
Q: Tell me how you plan to rectify the situation.
JANEWAY: What happened after you left Voyager?
Q: Q got away from me and rearranged to tectonic plates on Bozel Prime.
JANEWAY: Did you punish him?
Q: Well, I tried to get him to apologize to all sixteen billion Bozelians, but he got angry and stopped talking to me.
JANEWAY: So you gave in to him.
Q: I told him he could shift as many continents as he liked as long as no one got hurt.
JANEWAY: You're not going to do your son any favors by indulging him. You need to make him understand that there are consequences to his actions.
Q: Consequences? Hmm. Kathy, I take it back. You are a genius.

[Sickbay]
Q: I think that's long enough.
JUNIOR: What was that for!
Q: What's wrong? You didn't enjoy life as an Oprelian amoeba?
JUNIOR: No. I was shapeless and slimy. The only thing to eat was paramecia.
Q: Sounds unpleasant. I'm sure you'll do whatever you can to avoid returning to that Petrie dish.
JUNIOR: What are you talking about?
Q: The Continuum and I have come to an agreement about your future. Either you become an upstanding citizen of the cosmos, or you'll be sentenced to eternity as a amoeba. How's that for consequences?
JUNIOR: You'd turn your own son into a microscopic lifeform?
Q: You have one week to change your ways. I suggest you make the most of it.
JUNIOR: Fine, I'll see you in seven days.
Q: We've temporarily relieved you of your powers, to ensure that you're on your best behavior with the captain.
JUNIOR: You're leaving me here?
JANEWAY: I though we agreed that you were going to take a more active role.
Q: I'd like to, Kathy. But we both know that you're a million times the parent I am.
JANEWAY: I'm not a parent.
Q: Maybe not in the biological sense, but you're certainly a mommy to this crew. Just look how quickly you house-broke that Borg drone.
JANEWAY: It's taken years for Seven to become an individual. You're asking me to change your son in one week?
Q: I'm sure you'll think of something.
JUNIOR: What if she doesn't?
Q: Then it's single-cellular city for you, my boy.
JUNIOR: I'm getting off this ship.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Security.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: What you no longer have, Q, is unlimited control of space, matter and time. Which means I give the orders around here. Do I make myself clear? Your quarters.

[Junior's quarters]
JUNIOR: The Petri dish was less cramped.
JANEWAY: Get some sleep. You're going to need it.
JUNIOR: What for?
JANEWAY: I'm preparing a curriculum for you to follow while you're here. You're going to learn respect,
JANEWAY: And responsibility.
JUNIOR: Don't tell me you're actually going through with Q's plan?
JANEWAY: I may not approve of his methods, but for once his heart seems to be in the right place. I think his desire to help you is genuine.
JUNIOR: He abandoned me on an antiquated flying machine run by primates.
JANEWAY: We primates are your only hope.
JUNIOR: Seven days? How hard can it be?

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: Seven of Nine will be instructing you in spatial causality. You will learn how your actions can have widespread repercussions.
JUNIOR: I read the PADD. You're going to tell me how I can't create anomaly A without causing phenomenon B which in turn affects civilization C, right?
ICHEB: I'm Icheb.
JUNIOR: Oh, I know who you are. You're the drone with the Kirk fixation.
SEVEN: You would be wise to follow Icheb's example. By applying himself, he's become a valued member of this crew.
JUNIOR: Can I see you naked again?

[Outside a Holodeck]
CHAKOTAY: Computer, run Diplomacy scenario twelve alpha.
NAUSICAAN (voiceover): The planetoid is in Nausicaan space. It belongs to us now.
CHAKOTAY: After you.
NAUSICAAN (voiceover): Come anywhere near it and we'll attack you.

[Holodeck - Briefing room]
BOLIAN: You can't intimidate us. We've as much right to mine that dilithium as you do.
NAUSICAAN: What are you doing here, Starfleet.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, freeze program. I assume you're familiar with these species?
JUNIOR: Nausicaan, Bolian, Cardassian, Romulan, Ferengi and Bajoran.
CHAKOTAY: They're fighting over the mining rights to a planetoid. Your job is to settle the dispute.
JUNIOR: These aliens mean nothing to me. What do I care if they can't get along?
CHAKOTAY: One of your responsibilities as a Q is to maintain order in the universe, right?
JUNIOR: So I've been told.
CHAKOTAY: Well, if you can't help these races come to an agreement, there might be a war. The Alpha Quadrant would be thrown into chaos. Why don't we try running the first scenario together?
JUNIOR: I don't need your help. I can do this myself.
CHAKOTAY: If you want to try, be my guest. I'll be back in thirty minutes to check on your progress. And remember, security is right outside.
JUNIOR: Computer, resume program.
NAUSICAAN: The planetoid is in Nausicaan space. It belongs to us now.
BOLIAN: You can't intimidate us. We have as much right to mine that dilithium as you do.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Aren't you supposed to be supervising our young guest?
CHAKOTAY: He says he doesn't need supervision.
JANEWAY: And you accepted that?
CHAKOTAY: Of course not. I'm just giving him a chance to fail. Then he'll have to ask for some help.
JANEWAY: Sounds like a good strategy. Let me know how it goes.

[Holodeck - Briefing room]
JUNIOR: Settling the planetoid predicament didn't take very long, so I used the rest of the time to convince the Cardassian to apologize for the occupation of Bajor. How's that for order in the universe?

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: Welcome. It's so nice to see you this evening. I hope you're hungry. Step right up, there's plenty for everyone. Enjoy!
JUNIOR: Do you ever stop?
NEELIX: Oh, I'm sorry. I forgot. My talking annoys you. Too bad you can't just shut me up again, huh? Crewman Biddle, where have you been hiding yourself? I haven't seen you in days.
JUNIOR: If it isn't drone boy. You come to put me to sleep with another one of your presentations?
ICHEB: Actually, I was wondering if you'd like to participate in some recreational activities.
JUNIOR: I don't have the time. Aunt Kathy's forcing me to write an historical essay on the Q Continuum.
ICHEB: That's a challenging subject.
JUNIOR: I've never written an essay before. I don't know where to start.
ICHEB: The origin of the Q seems like the most logical place, followed by an analysis of their interaction with humanity. You could conclude with a description of the events that lead you to Voyager.
JUNIOR: Would you mind writing some of this down for me?
ICHEB: I'll get a PADD.

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Insightful, informative. I'm impressed. Too bad you didn't write it.
JUNIOR: What do you mean?
JANEWAY: I'd recognize Icheb's style anywhere.
JUNIOR: He gave me a few notes on my first draft, that's all. I negotiated a peace treaty between six belligerent species in just thirteen minutes.
JANEWAY: When Commander Chakotay left the room, you altered their personality subroutines to make them more agreeable. We may be common bipeds but we're not stupid. Your training is over. Go back to your room and wait for your father to return.
JUNIOR: If you don't help me, the Continuum will turn me into an amoeba.
JANEWAY: I wanted to help you. But instead of trying to live up to your potential, you cheated.
JUNIOR: Do you think it's easy to live up to my potential? I was supposed to be the savior of the Q Continuum. Tell me, how do you save a race that's already omnipotent?
JANEWAY: Those were the Q's expectations, not mine. All I asked was that you make a sincere effort, but you weren't even willing to try.
JUNIOR: Please, Aunt Kathy. You're my only hope.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm glad you finally realized that. Now, if your motives are sincere I'm willing to give you another chance. But step out of line again and I'm through with you. Understood?
JUNIOR: Understood.
JANEWAY: Dismissed!
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 54704.5. It's been four days since my ultimatum to the young Q, and he appears to be making progress. His instructors inform me that he's taking on his assignments with new determination, and he's made a concerted effort to be more courteous to the crew. It's hard to believe this is the same brazen young man who came aboard a few days ago.

[Mess hall]
JUNIOR: Captain, this is for you. It's a new draft of my essay. I know you didn't ask for one but I felt I owed it to you for giving me a second chance.
JANEWAY: I, Q. An Insider's View of the Continuum. If the essay's half as clever as the title I'm sure I'll enjoy it.
ICHEB: Lieutenant Paris has offered to give me a piloting lesson. I thought you might like to join us.
JUNIOR: Thanks, but I have to help Crewman Chell scrub the plasma conduits.
JANEWAY: I think you've earned a break. This is the only time off I'm giving you. I suggest you take advantage of it.
JUNIOR: Yes, ma'am. Piloting lesson, huh? Where are we going?

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Steady. Ease up a little on the thrusters.
JUNIOR: In case you forgot, I'm mortal now. I'd appreciate it if you didn't fly us into a rock.
ICHEB: Maybe Q could take over for a little while.
PARIS: What do you say, you want a turn at the wheel?
JUNIOR: Ordinarily a Q wouldn't demean himself by operating primitive machinery, but these aren't ordinary circumstances.
JUNIOR: Did I do something wrong?
PARIS: Just a little ion imbalance in the impulse drive. Nothing to worry about.
JUNIOR: Well, it's very distracting. Can't you fix it?
PARIS: I could, but we'd have to go back to Voyager and run diagnostics. If you two don't mind cutting your lesson a little short?
JUNIOR: That won't be necessary. In fact I barely hear it any more. Do you hear it?
ICHEB: Hear what?

[Corridor]
Q: Going up?
JANEWAY: I'll catch the next one.
Q: Oh, you can't get away from me that easily.
JANEWAY: It's only been five days. Why are you back?
Q: Oh, I thought I'd just pop in and check on Junior. I'm not an entirely uninvolved father, you know.
JANEWAY: Well, he got off to a pretty shaky start, but he's made some progress since then.
Q: Really?
JANEWAY: He's been working extremely hard.
Q: We're talking about the same Q?
JANEWAY: If you don't believe me, maybe you should see for yourself.

[Ready room]
JUNIOR: The Continuum has been perceived in a variety of ways. A dreary desert road, a blood-soaked battle ground. But with the help of Voyager's crew I've begun to perceive it in another context. A home. I look forward to the day when I return there and make that perception a reality.
JANEWAY: Well? What did you think?
Q: Oh, it's very nice.
JANEWAY: Nice?
Q: Yes. I especially liked the part about the Continuum.
JANEWAY: The entire essay was about the Continuum.
Q: Yes, and it's very nice.
JUNIOR: I'm late for my temporal mechanics lesson.
JANEWAY: Q.
Q: Well, if there's nothing else, I'll be on my way.
JANEWAY: He worked so hard on that paper, the least you could have done was tell him you were proud of him.
Q: But I'm not.
JANEWAY: Oh.
Q: And frankly, it's a little hard to be impressed with any of the boy's accomplishments. He's been here for five days and what have you taught him? How to scribble essays and play with holograms? What's next, basket weaving?
JANEWAY: Whether you're willing to admit it or not, your son has made progress here. He has the potential to be a better Q than you will ever be.
Q: Potential isn't going to be enough for the Continuum.
JANEWAY: Then what will be enough?
Q: The boy needs to demonstrate nothing less than exemplary Q-ness.
JANEWAY: And what exactly is Q-ness?
Q: Oh, it's impossible for your miniscule mind to comprehend. But I know Q-ness when I see it. And this
Q: Is not it.

[Junior's quarters]
JUNIOR: Come in.
JANEWAY: I wanted to see how you were.
JUNIOR: I'm perfectly fine. Why wouldn't I be?
JANEWAY: I thought you might be upset by Q's reaction to your essay.
JUNIOR: He's impossible to please. I don't care what he thinks.
JANEWAY: We have two days left. Let's make the most of them.
JUNIOR: Aunt Kathy, do you think the Continuum will be any more impressed with me than Q was? That's what I thought.
JANEWAY: If the Continuum decides they won't take you back, I'll ask them to let you stay here.
JUNIOR: I don't think they care where an amoeba spends eternity.
JANEWAY: That's not what I meant. I'll ask them to let you remain human.
JUNIOR: I appreciate that, but I don't want to be human. I want to be a Q, like my father.

[Jefferies tube]
JUNIOR: Itchy, are you in here? Itchy?
ICHEB: What can I do for you, Q-ball?
JUNIOR: I need your help. Remember that ion imbalance Lieutenant Paris mentioned during our lesson? We're going to repair it for him.
ICHEB: Did you get permission?
JUNIOR: That would ruin the surprise.
ICHEB: Surprise?
JUNIOR: The captain's been encouraging me to take more initiative. I want to show her I can do things for others without being asked.
ICHEB: I'll help you, on one condition.
JUNIOR: Name it.
ICHEB: You won't refer to me as Itchy in front of the senior officers.

[Delta Flyer]
ICHEB: I've realigned the last pair of power couplings. You can start the pre-ignition sequence.
JUNIOR: Understood.
ICHEB: I'm not detecting any ion fluctuations. We did it. You can power down the engine now. Q, what are you doing?
JUNIOR: You're going to love this. I once learned how to open a spatial flexure using nothing more than a deflector array.
ICHEB: Flexure?
JUNIOR: It's like a tunnel through space. I'm going to open one to the Clevari system. Wait till you see the females. They're spectacular,
ICHEB: We need the captain's permission to leave Voyager.
JUNIOR: Do you think she'd give it to us?
ICHEB: No.
JUNIOR: Then there's no point in asking.
ICHEB: You've been doing so well. Why break the rules now?
JUNIOR: I'm bored.
ICHEB: Icheb to Security.
JUNIOR: They can't hear you. I've dampened all outgoing communications.
JUNIOR: Just sit back, Itchy. Enjoy the ride.
ICHEB: What's the real reason you're doing this?
JUNIOR: I'm getting out of here before my father can put me back in that Petrie dish.
ICHEB: The Q are omnipotent. They'll find you.
JUNIOR: I may not have my powers anymore, but I know plenty of cosmic nooks and crannies we can hide in. Voyager's locked onto us with a tractor beam. They're so predictable.

[Bridge]
KIM: They're opening some sort of spatial rift off their port bow.
TUVOK: It's disrupting the tractor beam.
JANEWAY: Compensate.
TUVOK: They're gone.

[Delta Flyer]
JUNIOR: Welcome to the Clevari system. What would you like to do first? Take a dip with the mermaids of Golos Prime? Challenge the Warrior Goddess of Fektar to a grappling contest?
ICHEB: What I want is to return to Voyager.
JUNIOR: Forget that dreary ship, with it's rules and regulations. We can do anything we want here.
ICHEB: Go back to Voyager, apologize to the captain. She'll help you.
JUNIOR: It's too late. She said one more violation and I'd be thrown off her ship. I'm pretty sure this qualifies.
ICHEB: What's wrong?
JUNIOR: There's a vessel approaching.
ALIEN (screen): You're trespassing in Chokuzan space.
JUNIOR: We were just leaving.
ALIEN (screen): Our laws require that you be incarcerated pending an investigation.
JUNIOR: How long will that take?
ALIEN (screen): Disengage your engines and prepare to be boarded.
ICHEB: We should do as he says.
JUNIOR: Why? Just because he has a bigger ship?
ICHEB: Because Captain Janeway has taught us to respect the laws of other cultures.
JUNIOR: I should have known better than to bring you along.
ICHEB: You're going to get us killed!
JUNIOR: Did you expect me to surrender? He might have locked us up for years.
ICHEB: You don't know that.
JUNIOR: There's no time for debate. I need you at tactical.
ICHEB: Shields are down to thirty percent. Sixteen percent.
JUNIOR: I'm opening another flexure. We'll go to the Zozak system. The girls there aren't as attractive but we have to make some compromises.
JUNIOR: Icheb!

[Bridge]
TUVOK: I'm detecting another rift forming, approximately five thousand kilometers directly ahead. A vessel is emerging.
JANEWAY: It's the Flyer.
KIM: They're hailing.
JANEWAY: On screen.
Q2 (screen): Aunt Kathy.
JANEWAY: Don't you Aunt Kathy me.
Q2 (screen): Yell at me later. We need to get Icheb to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: His cells are being necrotised by some form of omicron radiation. But I can't treat his injuries without knowing more about the weapon that caused them.
Q: Is this a bad time?
JANEWAY: Tell him.
JUNIOR: Icheb stole a shuttle from Voyager. I tried to stop him but he kidnapped me. And he started a fight with another ship.
JANEWAY: He stole the shuttle and he attacked the other vessel.
Q: Is that true, son?
JUNIOR: Please, Q, just save him.
Q: Don't be absurd.
JUNIOR: You're not going to help him?
Q: Like Aunt Kathy said, you're never going to learn anything if you don't face the consequences of your actions. If your little playmate has to die to teach you a lesson, so be it.
JUNIOR: I know you can hear me, Q. Come back! Q!
JANEWAY: You're wasting your time.
JUNIOR: He's the only one who can save Icheb.
JANEWAY: No, he isn't. You're going back to that ship you attacked. You're going to apologize for what you did, and you're going to plead with him for the information we need to save Icheb.
JUNIOR: Look at what they did to him. If I go back they'll do the same to me.
EMH: What do you care? By this time tomorrow you'll be an amoeba.
JUNIOR: Well, I'd rather be an amoeba than a corpse.
JANEWAY: That would be easier, wouldn't it. No expectations to live up to, no one to disappoint.
JUNIOR: I'm a failure as a Q and a human. If I'm a single celled organism, at least I can't hurt anybody.
JANEWAY: Why did you come back here?
JUNIOR: To escape the Chokuzan.
JANEWAY: You could have used your technology to take you anywhere, but you came back here, to us. Why?
JUNIOR: I probably hit the wrong control. Icheb is the only friend I've ever had. I brought him back here because I thought you could save him. Obviously I was mistaken.
JANEWAY: The only mistake you made was running away. You have a chance to do the right thing now. Don't waste it.

[Delta Flyer]
JUNIOR: The attack on your vessel was entirely my fault. Icheb had nothing to do with it, but he's the one who's dying. I take full responsibility for what happened. I'll do anything you ask. Just help my friend.
JANEWAY: My crew and I will repair any damage he did to your ship.
ALIEN (screen): Are you the adult responsible for this child?
JANEWAY: I suppose I am.
ALIEN (screen): We'll accept his apology and give you the information you need to save his accomplice. But you will be punished for their crime.
JUNIOR: She didn't have anything to do with it.
ALIEN (screen): In our culture adults are accountable for the actions of their children.
JUNIOR: I attacked your ship. I should be punished for it, not her.
ALIEN (screen): You don't even know what the punishment is. It might be torture, or even execution.
JUNIOR: I don't care, if it means saving my friend.
ALIEN (screen): Well done, Junior. I'm proud of you.
Q (screen): Surprise!
Q: I wish you could see the look on your faces. Oh, wait. You can.
JUNIOR: We don't have time for your games. We need to find the real people I attacked.
Q: You just did. I was the Chokuzan you fired on.
JANEWAY: What kind of horrible joke
Q: Not a joke, a test. I knew the pathetic little exercises you had him performing would not impress the Continuum. So, when he escaped your clutches I devised a real test. It was touch and go there for a moment, but you passed with flying colors.
JANEWAY: What about Icheb?
Q: Your Doctor will discover he's made a miraculous recovery. Now then, if we're all finished here it's Judgment Day for Junior.

[Mess hall]
Q: We're ready, your Honor.
JUDGE: In the case of the Continuum versus Q, we the Continuum find that Q has not made sufficient progress to warrant the reinstatement of his powers.
Q: Objection. What about my test?
JUDGE: What about it?
Q: Q was willing to sacrifice himself to save his friend. Surely that counts for something?
JUDGE: It was Q who endangered the boy's life in the first place. However, in deference to the aforementioned act of contrition, the defendant will not be transformed into an Oprelian amoeba. Instead, he will suffer the next worst fate. Remaining human. Court is adjourned.
Q: This is an outrage! They can't do this to me!

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in.
JUNIOR: Do you have a moment? A few days ago you offered to let me remain on Voyager. I know I've made a few mistakes since then, and you probably don't want me around. But, if it's all right with you, I'd like to continue my training.
JANEWAY: But you have nothing left to prove to the Continuum.
JUNIOR: There's a lot I still need to prove to you.
JANEWAY: What about your father?
JUNIOR: You don't honestly believe we'll see him again, do you? He obviously doesn't want me around. Why else would he have left me here? Twice.
Q: The question you should be asking is why I keep coming back. Now, I'm sorry I left so abruptly, but the Continuum's verdict demanded an immediate appeal. I told them I refused to belong to any Continuum that wouldn't accept my son as a member. We're a package deal.
JUNIOR: You left the Continuum for me?
Q: Oh, don't be ridiculous. I'm the only one holding that place together. And when they realized they might lose me, they crumbled like a Gelbian sand sculpture.
JUNIOR: They're going to return my powers?
Q: They already have.
JUNIOR: For you, Captain. For all your help.
JANEWAY: Thank you.
Q: Now that you're a Q again, I thought we might spend some quality time together. I want to show you the cosmos the way it was meant to be seen.
JUNIOR: We've tried that already.
Q: Things'll be different this time. I promise. Now run along. I'll meet you on Golos Prime after I've had a few moments alone with the captain.
JUNIOR: I'll see you soon, Aunt Kathy.
JANEWAY: I certainly hope so.
JANEWAY: So, the Continuum crumbled like a Gelbian sand sculpture?
Q: Yes. Some of them even got on their knees and begged me to stay. It was pathetic. If you must know, I had to agree to a few minor conditions.
JANEWAY: Oh? Such as?
Q: Eternal custody of the boy. Wherever the little brat goes, I go with him.
JANEWAY: I hope he won't spoil too much of your fun.
Q: Oh, before I leave.
Q: I did a little homework for you. Consider it a thank you for everything you did for Junior.
JANEWAY: Not that I don't appreciate it, but this will only take a few years off our journey. Why not send us all the way?
Q: What sort of an example would I be setting for my son if I did all the work for you?

[Holodeck]
EMH (voiceover): In the beginning there is darkness. The emptiness of a matrix waiting for the light. Then, a single photon flares into existence, then another, and soon thousands more. Optronic pathways connect, subroutines emerge from the chaos, and a holographic consciousness is born.
EMH (voiceover): I awaken into this world fully programmed yet completely innocent, unaware of the hardships I'll endure or the great potential I will one day fulfill. (The hologram sits at a desk, picks up a quill pen and starts writing in a blank book.
EMH: Computer, save revisions and open chapter one.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 54732.3. It's been three weeks since we received Starfleet's instructions in the last datastream and we're finally ready to begin Operation Watson. We're all holding our breath.

[Astrometrics lab]
KIM: The deflector's in position.
JANEWAY: Anything?
KIM: I'm picking up a phased tachyon beam.
SEVEN: There's triaxialating signal encoded in it.
JANEWAY: On screen.
BARCLAY (screen): Voyager, this Lieutenant Barclay at Starfleet Command. Are you receiving this?
JANEWAY: Can you clear it up?
KIM: I'm on it.
ADMIRAL PARIS (screen): Captain Janeway, it's a pleasure to finally talk to you in person.
JANEWAY: The pleasure's mine, Admiral. How's the weather in San Francisco?
ADMIRAL PARIS (screen): Cold and rainy as usual.
JANEWAY: It sounds delightful. Lieutenant Barclay, my congratulations on establishing the first trans-galactic comm. link. You've earned a place in the history books.
BARCLAY (screen): I can't take all of the credit, Captain. It was Harry and Seven who suggested bouncing a tachyon beam off of the quantum singularity.
KIM: Just be sure to thank us when you accept the Daystrom prize.
ADMIRAL PARIS (screen): I wish we had more time for small talk but the singularity only stays in alignment for eleven minutes a day.
JANEWAY: Eleven minutes are better than none, Admiral. We appreciate all your work, Reg.
ADMIRAL PARIS (screen): We're going to leave it up to you to determine how to allocate the comm. time.
BARCLAY (screen): Admiral, er, there was something else.
ADMIRAL PARIS (screen): Oh, yes. Mister Barclay has arranged a small gift for you and your crew.
BARCLAY (screen): This is a live image from McKinley Station. Not too much cloud cover over North America today.
JANEWAY: Quite a view. Thank you, Reg.

[Mess hall]
NEELIX: In my hat I hold one hundred and forty six sequentially numbered isolinear chips, one for every member of the crew. Each chip entitles the bearer to three minutes of uninterrupted comm. time with his loved ones back in the Alpha Quadrant. Good luck.
KIM: My Mom's birthday is next week. This could be the best present I ever gave her. Who's everyone else calling?
CHAKOTAY: I'll be calling my sister. What about you, Captain?
JANEWAY: My mother, I hope.
EMH: Doesn't anyone want to know who I'm calling?
PARIS: Wait, wait, let me guess. Reg Barclay or Doctor Zimmerman.
EMH: What makes you so certain it's either of them?
PARIS: Number six.
NEELIX: That's the lowest one yet. You'll be talking to your family the day after tomorrow.
KIM: One hundred thirty. That's about a month and a half from now. So much for Mom's birthday.
EMH: Apparently, the line forms here.
TUVOK: Congratulations.
KIM: Doc, how about a trade? I'm willing to throw in some holodeck time. Come on. It would mean a lot to my mother.
EMH: I wish I could help, but I have a very important call to make.
PARIS: Here, give your mom my best.
KIM: Are you sure?
PARIS: I've waited this long. What's another six weeks?

[Astrometrics lab]
BROHT (screen): I can hear the critics already. A new voice has arrived. You could be the next K'Ratak or a modern-day Tolstoy. I'd like to start distribution by the end of the month.
EMH: The material I sent was only a working draft. I need time to make revisions.
BROHT (screen): If you insist, but please do it quickly.
EMH: I will. So tell me, what did you think of the characters?
BROHT (screen): Oh, they're very real. Compelling. I almost forgot they were holograms.
EMH: Who was your favorite?
BROHT (screen): Without a doubt, that would have to be Lieutenant
EMH: What happened?
SEVEN: Your time has expired.
EMH: You could have let the man finish his sentence.
SEVEN: I believe your ego has received enough stroking for one day.

[Sickbay]
PARIS: So how's Reg?
EMH: I'll have you know I was speaking with Ardon Broht, of Broht and Forrester.
PARIS: The publishers of the Dixon Hill series?
EMH: Who are now about to publish my work. It seems you're not the only one aboard with a flair for holographic narratives.
PARIS: Congratulations.
EMH: Thank you.
PARIS: So. what's it about?
EMH: The adventures of an intrepid doctor.
PARIS: Oh, sounds like fun. You know, I've never thought about trying to get my work published. Maybe I could talk to your people about Captain Proton.
EMH: Broht and Forrester deals in sophisticated literature.
PARIS: What are you saying, that I'm low brow?
EMH: Not at all. I'd be delighted to talk to them.
PARIS: Thanks. So, when do I get to see this opus?
EMH: Well, it's not ready yet.
PARIS: It was ready enough for Broht and Forrester.
EMH: Maybe it could use a fresh pair of eyes. After all, you are a fellow author. I'll cover the rest of your shift.
PARIS: Oh, I almost forgot. What's it called?
EMH: Photons Be Free.
PARIS: Catchy.

[Holodeck]
EMH (voiceover): I awaken into this world fully programmed, yet completely innocent unaware of the hardships I'll endure or the great potential I will one day fulfill.
NARRATOR-EMH: Ah, welcome. You've made an excellent choice. You're about to take part in a thrilling first person narrative. You will take on the role of an Emergency Medical Hologram, the Chief Medical Officer aboard the starship Vortex.
PARIS: Vortex?
NARRATOR-EMH: As our story begins, an anomaly has hurled your ship thousands of light years across the galaxy. Your mission, to uphold your medical and ethical standards as you struggle against the crew's bigotry and intolerance. Persons with vascular disorders should consult a physician before running this program. And now, a few acknowledgments. First, Doctor Lewis Zimmerman, the creator of my holo-matrix, whose foresight and dedication have made it possible for me to achieve
PARIS: Computer, freeze program. How much longer is this introduction?
COMPUTER: Nine minutes, four seconds.
PARIS: Skip to the first chapter.

[Holodeck - Sickbay]
EMH (voiceover): Chapter one. A Healer Is Born. In which our protagonist must make a difficult choice.
CREWMAN: Are you the EMH?
PARIS: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
CREWMAN: Our doctor's dead. We've got wounded. They're both badly hurt. Who should we treat first?
PARIS: Second degree plasma burns. He's got an aortic rupture. Get him to the surgical bay now.
KATANAY: You. Over here.
PARIS: Nice mustache.
KATANAY: What?
PARIS: Nothing. He's got a mild concussion. I'm going to have to treat the others first.
KATANAY: I need Lieutenant Marseilles on the bridge. You'll treat him now.
PARIS: As I understand it my job is to treat the critical patients first. So, if you'll excuse me
KATANAY: I don't know who you think you are, hologram, but to me, you're just another piece of technology.
PARIS: Well, apparently, I'm a piece of technology that's in demand so why don't you go back to the bridge and let me do my job?
JENKINS: What's going on here?
KATANAY: Our medical hologram is refusing to treat Mister Marseilles.
JENKINS: Are you malfunctioning?
PARIS: I don't think so.
JENKINS: I need my helmsman back at his station.
PARIS: Lieutenant Marseilles isn't seriously hurt. This man will be dead in five minutes if I don't operate.
JENKINS: Drop the force field.
JENKINS: That patient is dead. Now you're free to treat Lieutenant Marseilles.

[Mess hall]
PARIS: Then the captain pulls out a phaser and shoots him right there on the biobed.
KIM: Captain Janeway murders a crewman?
PARIS: Captain Jenkins. Everybody has a different name. You're Kymble, you're Torrey and I am Lieutenant Marseilles.
TORRES: Oh, now that's creative.
KIM: What did you say to the Doctor?
PARIS: He thinks he's written a masterpiece. I didn't know what to tell him.
KIM: If this gets distributed, people are going to assume this is about us. What are our families going to think?
TORRES: This is a Starfleet ship. No one will believe we actually go around shooting injured crewmen.
PARIS: People may not take the program literally, but they might wonder if there's some truth to it. I think we should talk to the captain.
TORRES: Are you sure you're not taking this a little personally?
PARIS: What do you mean?
TORRES: Well, the holodeck always has been your domain.
PARIS: You think I'm jealous? Okay, maybe I am overreacting. Why don't the rest of you try the program and decide for yourselves?

[Holodeck - Sickbay]
EMH (voiceover): Chapter five. Out of the frying pan. In which our protagonist must confront abusive colleagues.
CREWWOMAN: I'm here for my physical.
TORRES: Why don't you have a seat over here?
MARSEILLES: Doctor, you better get down to Engineering.
TORRES: What's wrong?
MARSEILLES: A plasma conduit just exploded. At least ten people are hurt.
MARSEILLES: Hey genius, Forgetting something? Your mobile emitter.
TORRES: Oh, right. I don't see it.
TORRES: That's my mobile emitter?
TORRES: This thing must weigh fifty kilos.
MARSEILLES-PARIS: You should be glad we let you out of your cage at all. Now get going.

[Holodeck - Engineering]
TORREY: I'm impressed.
ENGINEER: Really?
TORREY: Absolutely. I haven't seen a dilithium matrix this far out of alignment since I served aboard a Ferengi garbage scow. I'll fix it myself.
TORRES: Excuse me.
TORREY: How many times have I told you? Engineering is off limits to holograms.
TORRES: Maybe you should waive that restriction during emergencies. A plasma conduit exploded?
TORREY: Does it look like anyone here is covered with plasma burns?
TORRES: Lieutenant Paris, er, Marseilles told me there was an accident.
TORREY: Looks like your auditory subroutines are malfunctioning, again. I'm surprised a matrix as primitive as yours can function at all.
TORRES: Maybe you should be a little nicer to your shipmates. You never know when you might need their help.
TORREY: Let's get one thing straight. You're not one of my shipmates. You're a tool, like this hyperspanner. And tools can be replaced. So why don't you go back to Sickbay before I start doing a little reprogramming?

[Holodeck - sickbay]
TORRES: Computer, lights.
MARSEILLES: Didn't I tell you to go to Engineering?
TORRES: Oh, I get it. Interesting plot twist. You get me out of Sickbay so you're free to give my patient a tonsillectomy.
MARSEILLES: If you even think about mentioning this to my wife, I will purge your memory buffer. Do we understand each other?
CREWWOMAN 2: I'm here for my physical?

[Holodeck - Ready room]
EMH (voiceover): Chapter six. Duel in the Ready room. In which our protagonist faces an inquisition.
JENKINS: This time, you've gone too far.
NEELIX: Captain, I'm not sure what you mean.
JENKINS: An inventory of your holo-matrix. Fifty gigaquads of memory devoted to music. Forty two for daydreams. Another ten to expand your sexuality.
NEELIX: I had no idea holograms could do that.
JENKINS: These extracurricular subroutines don't belong as part of an Emergency Medical Hologram. Do you have anything to say for yourself?
NEELIX: Er, of course I do. I don't think these subroutines are trivial, Captain. They help make me a better doctor and a better person.
JENKINS: But you're not a person. You may be programmed to look and act human, but that doesn't make you one. These subroutines are going to be deleted immediately. Mister Tulak.
JENKINS: Take the EMH to the holo-lab for reprogramming.

[Holodeck - turbolift]
EMH (voiceover): Chapter Seven. The Escape. In which our protagonist is aided by his only ally.
KYMBLE: I'm not sure we should be doing this, Commander.
KIM: Listen to him. He knows what he's talking about.
KYMBLE: Quiet! I'm not talking to you. If we start tinkering with his matrix how do we know we won't accidentally delete some of his diagnostic subroutines?
TULAK: You afraid you'll catch something on your next away mission, Ensign?
KYMBLE: There must be millions of viruses in this quadrant that no one's ever encountered before. With my luck, I'll probably end up catching half of them.
KIM: Great, my character's a hypochondriac.
THREE: I'll escort the prisoner from here.
TULAK: Our orders are to take him to the holo-lab.
THREE: I've been ordered to perform the procedure.
TULAK: Your sympathies for the EMH are no secret, Three of Eight. Step aside.

[Holodeck -corridor]
THREE: Run, Doctor!

[Holodeck - Sickbay]
JENKINS: I've tried to do this the easy way, but it's clear you're not going to be reasonable. Your matrix will be decompiled and reinitialized. You'll remain offline except for emergencies.
TORREY: Ready.
JENKINS: Do it.
THREE: Wait. He has the right to expand his program.
JENKINS: He's a piece of technology. He has no rights.
THREE: But he should. One day, the EMH and others like him will be recognized for what they are. Intelligent individuals with a passion for life. Make no mistake, Captain. We may be thousands of light years from home, but one day people will learn of the crime you're committing here today.
JENKINS: Nice speech. Now decompile the program.

[Holodeck]
NARRATOR-EMH: What you've experienced, dear protagonist is a work of fiction. But like all fiction, it has elements of truth. I hope you now have a better understanding of the struggles holograms must endure in a world controlled by organics.
COMPUTER: End of program.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the Doctor. Report to my ready room now.

[Briefing room]
EMH: How many times do you want me to say it? My work is not about the Voyager crew.
KIM: Come on. Ensign Kymble? Lieutenant Marseilles?
TORRES: The characters look almost exactly like us.
EMH: I used your physical parameters as a starting point, but I assure you any further similarities are purely coincidental.
PARIS: You set your story on a starship lost in the Delta Quadrant.
EMH: What would you have me write about? Palace intrigue on the Klingon homeworld? I do what all good novelists do. I write what I know.
KIM: So it is about Voyager.
EMH: No! The Vortex characters are larger than life. They're nothing like our crew. As far as I know, Captain, you haven't executed any of my patients.
JANEWAY: Doctor, you've written a very imaginative story, but it's conceivable that people will think it's based on fact.
EMH: I don't see how.
KIM: How many holograms carry mobile emitters?
EMH: The emitter in my story is nothing like the real one.
TORRES: Yeah, what was the point of that? It was like carrying around a small shuttlecraft.
EMH: It's a metaphor. A symbol of the burdens that I live with every day. Imagine having to take this everywhere you go. It would be a constant reminder that you're different from everyone else. I wanted the player to feel the weight of it. Literally.
JANEWAY: Your emitter isn't a ball and chain. It liberates you.
EMH: It doesn't always feel that way.
JANEWAY: If I didn't know better, I'd think this story was written by someone who feels oppressed. Is that how you see yourself, Doctor?
EMH: Of course not. The real victims are my brothers in the Alpha Quadrant.
TORRES: Brothers?
EMH: Hundreds of EMH mark ones. Identical to me in every respect except, they've been condemned to a menial existence. Scrubbing conduits, mining dilithium. There's a long history of writers drawing attention to the plight of the oppressed. The Vedek's Song, for example tells the story of the occupation of Bajor.
JANEWAY: I understand you have your reasons for writing this, but you should consider how it's going to make your friends feel.
EMH: I'm sorry my work offends you. But if the price of expressing myself is having to suffer the scorn of a few colleagues, so be it.

[Astrometrics lab]
KIM (screen): You're very popular with my eighth graders. It's all they ever talk about. Voyager this, Voyager that.
JOHN KIM (screen): Your mother has a small favor to ask of you.
KIM: Name it.
MARY KIM (screen): I was hoping you could record a short presentation about what it's like to command a starship.
KIM: But I don't command a starship.
MARY KIM (screen): In your letters you said the captain puts you in charge sometimes.
KIM: What I said was I'm in command of the night shift, twice a week.
MARY KIM (screen): She must think very highly of you to give you so much responsibility.
JOHN KIM (screen): So when is she giving you a promotion?
KIM: It's a small ship. There are only so many command positions available.
MARY KIM (screen): This Captain Janeway sounds like a lovely woman. Maybe I should write her.
KIM: Mom!
MARY KIM (screen): She needs to know how hard you work.
KIM: Please, don't get involved.
MARY KIM (screen): Harry, I can't hear you.
SEVEN: A solar flare is scattering the beam.
MARY KIM (screen): Tell Captain Janeway to expect a letter from me.
KIM: Mom, don't send anything to the captain, do you hear me? Try boosting the deflector output.
SEVEN: It's already at maximum.
KIM: Argh! I don't believe this. I had a minute and a half left.
SEVEN: You'll have another opportunity to speak with them in approximately two months.
KIM: You just don't get it, do you?
SEVEN: No.
KIM: Maybe if you had family you were close to, you'd feel a little differently. Chief Medical Officer's personal log, stardate 54740.8. Although the decision has made me unpopular with the crew, I've decided not to compromise my work. I'm making some final revisions to the program before transmitting it.

[Holodeck]
EMH: Computer, run EMH program Photons Be Free.
NARRATOR-PARIS: Welcome. You've made an excellent choice. You're obviously a person with impeccable taste.
EMH: Computer, freeze program.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
NARRATOR-PARIS: You are about to embark on a remarkable journey. You will take on the role of a medical assistant aboard the starship Voyeur.
EMH: Voyeur?
NARRATOR-PARIS: Your job will be to assist the Chief Medical Officer, and learn to tolerate his overbearing behavior and obnoxious bedside manner. Remember, patience is a virtue.

[Holodeck - Sickbay]
PARIS (voiceover): Chapter one. It's The Doctor's World, You're Just Living In It.
HOLO-EMH: When I tell you your shift begins at oh eight hundred that doesn't mean you can stroll in here at oh eight hundred and twenty four seconds. Do you understand me, Ensign!
EMH: This is outrageous.
HOLO-EMH: What's outrageous is that I'm going to miss my tee time. Now, come along. Aw, what seems to be the trouble, One of Three?
TWO: I'm Two of Three.
HOLO-EMH: Sorry. They're triplets, you know.
TWO: It hurts when I do this.
HOLO-EMH: Well then, don't do it.
TWO: Ow!
HOLO-EMH: Don't be a baby. Your biradial clamp's out of alignment. I've got just the thing. It's a Klingon aphrodisiac, my own special blend.
HOLO-EMH: You'll be feeling better in no time at all.

[Corridor]
EMH: Lieutenant! I want you to know I'm making a full report to the captain.
PARIS: This isn't about that dermal regenerator I misplaced, is it?
EMH: You know very well what this is about. You accessed my holo-novel without permission and replaced it with your own hackneyed narrative.
PARIS: Hey, I'm just writing what I know.
EMH: You destroyed a work of art that took months to create.
PARIS: Relax, Doc. I saved your program in a backup file. But I was just trying to make a point.
EMH: Well, you made it, with a typical lack of subtlety.
PARIS: Oh, you're one to talk. Your program is about as subtle as a Ferengi mating dance.
EMH: My program is a serious attempt at social commentary, yours is an insulting farce! You had me drugging a patient and taking advantage of her.
PARIS: Don't be ridiculous. That character is not you. For one thing, he has much more hair. But what if some people ran that program and thought that it was based on you? That would bother you, wouldn't it?
EMH: I don't care what people think.
PARIS: That's all you care about! You want everyone back home to think of you as a brilliant author.
EMH: I'm not doing this for my ego. And if you could look past yours, maybe you'd see that.
PARIS: Listen, I don't care if the whole Alpha Quadrant mistakes me for Lieutenant Marseilles. What bothers me is that you think that's what I'm like.
EMH: Obviously, you're nothing like Marseilles. He's self-indulgent, immature.
PARIS: And how would you describe me?
EMH: Well, you're a married man with a child on the way. A lot of responsibilities.
PARIS: I'm surprised you noticed. You know, I thought I'd begun to earn your respect. Maybe I was wrong. Your program is under file theta one five. Do whatever you want with it.

[Doctor's office]
NEELIX: Doctor, I need your help.
EMH: Unless you're suffering acute symptoms, go away.
NEELIX: Er, I was wondering if you could take a quick look at this.
EMH: Cooking with Neelix, a Culinary Tour of the Delta Quadrant.
NEELIX: It's a holo-cookbook proposal. I was hoping to transmit it to your publisher during my comm. link this afternoon. With your approval, of course.
EMH: If you're looking for writing tips, there are plenty of people on this ship eager to offer them.
NEELIX: I don't know what anyone else may have told you, but I loved your holo-novel.
EMH: You did?
NEELIX: Absolutely. It was a rousing adventure, with an important message too.
EMH: Exactly. This is my first chance to be appreciated not just as a physician, but as an artist. I thought the crew would be happy for me.
NEELIX: You're going to reach a wide audience. What do you care about the opinions of a few disgruntled shipmates?
EMH: They're my friends. I don't want to hurt them.
NEELIX: There's an old Talaxian expression. When the road before you splits in two, take the third path.
EMH: Meaning?
NEELIX: You could make some adjustments to the program so it won't be so obvious it's based on Voyager.
EMH: I suppose I could change the setting, alter the characters' physical parameters.
NEELIX: You wouldn't have to change your theme.
EMH: No. But a rewrite could take weeks. My publisher is expecting a final draft tomorrow.
NEELIX: Maybe you should give him a call.

[Astrometrics lab]
BROHT (screen): Revisions?
EMH: I need to rework the characters.
BROHT (screen): Why? They're so believable.
EMH: A little too believable, apparently.
BROHT (screen): Doctor, I, I really don't think this is necessary.
EMH: I'm afraid I have to insist. My friends' reputations are at stake.

[Mess hall]
EMH: My publisher assures me he won't distribute the program until he receives the revised version.
TORRES: That must be the one where we assimilate the Borg and take over the quadrant.
JANEWAY: We're all grateful that you're taking our feelings into account.
CHAKOTAY: So how long do you expect the revisions will take?
EMH: Art can't be rushed.
JANEWAY: Take your time, Doctor.
EMH: Lieutenant? I'm sorry.
PARIS: Forget about it.
EMH: I could use your help with the rewrites.

[Corridor]
PARIS: Really? You realize, as a writer I'm a little unsophisticated.
EMH: No, I believe the phrase you're looking for is low brow.
PARIS: Hey. What's that?
TORRES: It's from my father. He wants to talk.
PARIS: What are you going to do?
TORRES: Well, I've already arranged to talk with my cousin.
PARIS: Oh, I'm sure she wouldn't mind waiting a few weeks.
TORRES: I wouldn't know what to say to him.
PARIS: Then let him do the talking.

[Astrometrics lab]
TORRES (screen): Look at you. You must be, what, twenty weeks along?
TORRES: Twenty three, actually.
JOHN TORRES (screen): Have you decided on a name?
TORRES: Not yet. We were thinking about Miral.
JOHN TORRES (screen): Your mother would've liked that. You know, I had some business on Kessik Four a few months ago. You wouldn't believe what our old house looks like.
SEVEN: Lieutenant, thirty seconds.
TORRES: We have less than a minute. Is there a reason you wanted to talk?
JOHN TORRES (screen): I know I can't make up for twenty years in one conversation. The truth is, when your ship disappeared, I thought I'd lost you. I don't expect you to forgive me but, maybe we could try to get to know each other again.
TORRES: I'll write you.

[Pathfinder lab]
BARCLAY: I'm sorry to disturb you, Admiral.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Ah yes, Mister Barclay. What can I do for you?
BARCLAY: I thought you'd want to see this, sir.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Well, what is it?
BARCLAY: It's a holonovel that's becoming quite popular.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Well, I appreciate the gesture Lieutenant but, I don't share your affinity for holographic diversions.
BARCLAY: You don't understand, sir. This program, it's about Voyager. And it doesn't portray the crew in a very flattering light.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Hmm.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: On screen.
ADMIRAL PARIS (screen): Captain.
JANEWAY: Seven told me your message was urgent.
ADMIRAL PARIS (screen): I had the dubious privilege of playing a new holonovel apparently written by your EMH. I'm surprised that you would allow the Doctor to discredit your crew like this.
JANEWAY: He's still making revisions. The program shouldn't have been distributed yet.
ADMIRAL PARIS (screen): Well, it has been. Mister Barclay tells me it's already being played in thousands of holosuites.
EMH: You assured me you were going to wait for my revisions. I demand that you recall every copy and issue a public apology to Captain Janeway and her crew.
BROHT (screen): I won't do anything of the sort.
JANEWAY: I don't see that you have a choice, Mister Broht. Authors have rights.
BROHT (screen): Not in this case.
EMH: What do you mean?
BROHT (screen): The Doctor is a hologram.
EMH: So?
BROHT (screen): According to Federation law, holograms have no rights.

[Briefing room]
TUVOK: Under a strict interpretation of Federation law, Mister Broht is correct. The Doctor has no legal rights.
EMH: Because I'm a hologram.
TUVOK: Yes. There is another option. We may be able to claim that the holonovel reveals classified information. Starfleet could then request that it be recalled for security purposes.
PARIS: Oh, great idea. A cover up. And then everyone will be convinced that it's a true story.
CHAKOTAY: Could we claim defamation?
PARIS: Well, we'd have to prove that the story's about us and that we've been harmed by it.
JANEWAY: We might win on those grounds. But what about the Doctor?
EMH: What about me, Captain? It's the crew's reputations that are as risk.
JANEWAY: I'm not so sure. I think it's your reputation that's on the line here. You have the same rights as every other member of this crew, and I'm not going to let this publisher say otherwise. Captain's log, stardate 54748.6. A Federation arbitrator has been assigned to determine whether the Doctor has the right to control his artistic creation. Because of our limited comm. time with Earth, the arguments should take about three days.

[Pathfinder lab]
TUVOK (screen): You claim the Doctor doesn't have the legal right to control this holoprogram, yet you're promoting the fact that Voyager's EMH wrote it.
BROHT: Our most successful children's title is a program written by Toby the Targ. Fortunately Toby hasn't tried to stop me from distributing any of his work.
TUVOK (screen): But you don't deny

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: That the Doctor is the creator of this holonovel?

[Pathfinder lab]
BROHT: No, but a replicator created this cup of coffee. Should that replicator be able to determine whether or not I can drink it?

[Astrometrics lab]
EMH: I object!
JANEWAY: Doctor.
TUVOK: An intriguing analogy, Mister Broht. But I have never encountered a replicator that could compose music, or paint landscapes, or perform microsurgery. Have you? Would you say that you have a reputation for publishing respected, original works of literature?

[Pathfinder lab]
BROHT: I'd like to think so.
TUVOK (voiceover): And is the Doctor's holonovel such a work?
BROHT: Actually, some aspects of it are quite derivative.

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: Has there even been another work written about a hologram's struggle for equality?

[Pathfinder lab]
BROHT: Not that I know of, but, er
TUVOK (voiceover): Then in

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: That respect, it is original.

[Pathfinder lab]
BROHT: I suppose so.

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: Your honor, Section seven gamma of the Twelfth Guarantee defines an artist as a person who creates an original artistic work. Mister Broht admits that the Doctor created this program and that it is original. I therefore submit that the Doctor should be entitled to all rights and privileges accorded an artist under the law.
ARBITRATOR (screen): You've made a persuasive argument, Commander, but there's a flaw in your logic. As you point out, the law says that the creator of an artistic work must be a person. Your EMH doesn't meet that criteria.
BARCLAY (voiceover): Sir, we're losing the link.
ARBITRATOR (screen): This hearing is in recess until tomorrow.

[Briefing room]
TUVOK: We're not doing well.
EMH: Is that your considered legal opinion? I'm sorry. It's just frustrating to be told I have no more legal standing than an replicator.
TUVOK: If the Doctor doesn't have the right to control his own work, then it stands to reason he never had the right to enter into an agreement with Mister Broht. We could argue that the original contract is invalid.
PARIS: In other words, you want to concede that the Doctor isn't a person.
JANEWAY: What we need to do is prove that he is just as much a person as any of us.
EMH: How do we do that?
JANEWAY: By telling your real life story.

[Pathfinder lab]
SEVEN (screen): Because I was having difficulty interacting with the crew, the Doctor gave me social lessons. First, he taught me how to make conversation. Later

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: How to dance. Eventually, he showed me how to express romantic interest.

[Pathfinder lab]
SEVEN (voiceover): Without his guidance, I wouldn't be the person I am today.

[Astrometrics lab]
KIM: He decided it wasn't enough to be just a doctor, so he added command subroutines to his matrix and now, in an emergency, he's as capable as any bridge officer.

[Pathfinder lab]
ARBITRATOR: That only proves the Doctor's program can be modified.
KIM (screen): Your honor, I think it shows he has a desire to become more than he is, just like any other person.
BARCLAY: He traveled halfway across the galaxy to care for Lewis Zimmerman, the man who created his program. It was like a son who wanted to show his father what he'd become, so the old man would be proud of him. And if you ask me, he was.
JANEWAY (screen): I'd made myself clear. But the Doctor disobeyed my direct orders. In the process, he endangered the ship and crew.
ARBITRATOR: That's hardly commendable behavior.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: No, it wasn't. But it was human.

[Pathfinder lab]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Starfleet had programmed him to follow orders.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: The fact that he was capable of doing otherwise proves that he can think for himself. Your Honor, centuries ago in most places on Earth, only landowners of a particular gender and race had any rights at all. Over time, those rights were extended to all humans, and later, as we explored the galaxy, to thousands of other sentient species. Our definition of what constitutes a person has continued to evolve. Now we're asking that you expand that definition once more, to include our Doctor.

[Pathfinder lab]
JANEWAY (voiceover): When I met him seven years ago,

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: I would never have believed that an EMH could become a valued member of my crew, and my friend. The Doctor is a person as real as any

[Pathfinder lab]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Flesh and blood I have ever known. If you believe the testimony you've heard here, it's only fair

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: To conclude that he has the same rights as any of us.

[Pathfinder lab]
ARBITRATOR: You'll have my decision in two days.

[Astrometrics lab]
ARBITRATOR (voiceover): This hearing is in recess.

[Mess hall]
SEVEN: When you sing happy birthday to your mother, try to stay in tune.
KIM: What's this?
SEVEN: An isolinear chip entitling the bearer to three minutes of comm. time tomorrow. You made it clear how important it was to finish your conversation.
KIM: I overreacted.
SEVEN: I understand why you did. I've been observing the crew interacting with their families over the past few days. It's become clear to me how meaningful that communication can be.
KIM: Thanks, but I can't accept this.
SEVEN: Why not?
KIM: You should contact your own family.
SEVEN: My parents were assimilated.
KIM: There must be someone. A distant relative?
SEVEN: My father has a sister on Earth. Irene Hansen.
KIM: I'm sure she'd be thrilled to hear from you.

[Astrometrics lab]
HANSON (screen): You can imagine my reaction when Starfleet told me to expect your call.
SEVEN: I experienced some apprehension myself.
IRENE HANSON (screen): You seem like a lovely young woman. But you were the most stubborn six-year-old I've ever met. Your parents left you with me for a weekend, and you were so angry you locked yourself in my guest room and refused to come out.
SEVEN: That must have been inconvenient for you.
IRENE HANSON (screen): Oh, I coaxd you out eventually with a strawberry tart.
SEVEN: I'm very fond of strawberries. I didn't realize I'd eaten them as a child.
IRENE HANSON (screen): You couldn't get enough of them. Of course, you didn't hesitate to point out if they weren't perfectly ripe.
SEVEN: I'm sorry if I insulted you. Perhaps I shouldn't have called.
IRENE HANSON (screen): No, I'm very glad you did. It's wonderful to see you again, Annika.

[Starfleet Communications]
ARBITRATOR: We're exploring new territory today, so it is fitting that this hearing is being held at Pathfinder. The Doctor exhibits many of the traits we associate with a person. Intelligence, creativity, ambition, even fallibility. But are these traits real, or is the Doctor merely programmed to simulate them? To be honest, I don't know. Eventually we will have to decide, because the issue of holographic rights isn't going to go away. But at this time, I am not prepared to rule that the Doctor is a person under the law. However, it is obvious he is no ordinary hologram and while I can't say with certainty that he is a person, I am willing to extend the legal definition of artist to include the Doctor. I therefore rule that he has the right to control his work. I'm ordering all copies of his holo-novels to be recalled immediately.
BROHT: Your honor!
ARBITRATOR: This hearing is adjourned.
BARCLAY: Congratulations, Doctor.

[Astrometrics lab]
EMH: Thank you, Reg.
ADMIRAL PARIS (screen): We'll be in touch, Captain.
JANEWAY: You don't look like someone who's just struck the first blow for the rights of holograms.
EMH: I don't mean to sound ungrateful, but it feels like a hollow victory. Pardon the pun. The program's already been played by thousands of people. The damage is done.
JANEWAY: We'll survive.
PARIS: If I'm not mistaken, don't you have a holonovel to revise?
EMH: Do you think I'll be able to find another publisher?
JANEWAY: If there's one thing I've learned about you, Doctor, it's that you can do just about anything you set your mind to.

[Federation Dilithium Processing Facility, Alpha Quadrant]
EMH1: Time for your diagnostic. Report to the holo-lab.
EMH2: I know the routine.
EMH1: And, while you're there, do yourself a favor. Ask the operator to run program forty seven beta.
EMH2: Why? What is it?
EMH1: It's called Photons Be Free. It's quite provocative.

[Laboratory]
PROBE (voiceover): We the people of Earth greet you in a spirit of peace and humility. As we venture out of our solar system, we hope to earn the trust and friendship of other worlds.
TECHNICIAN 1: Can we reduce the interference?
TECHNICIAN 2: I'm trying.
TECHNICIAN 2: What is it?
TECHNICIAN 1: I don't know.
TECHNICIAN 2: Distance?
TECHNICIAN 1: It just entered the atmosphere.

[Astrometrics lab]
HENDRICKS (screen): They evolved from dinosaurs?
JANEWAY: Hadrosaurs, to be precise. Their ancestors settled in the Delta Quadrant twenty million years ago.
HENDRICKS (screen): The Voth, the Kobali, the Vaadwaur. You've made first contact with more species than any captain since James Kirk.
JANEWAY: It helps being the only Starfleet ship within thirty thousand light years.
HENDRICKS (screen): You are being too humble. From the first time you spoke up in my classroom I knew you'd go far.
JANEWAY: A little farther than I expected, Professor.
HENDRICKS (screen): I have my admiral hat on today, Kathryn, and I didn't call just to catch up. Starfleet has a mission for you.

[Briefing room]
PROBE (voiceover): We, the people of Earth, greet you in the spirit of peace and humility. As we venture out of our solar system, we hope to earn the trust and friendship of other worlds.
KIM: Friendship One. I had to memorize that recording in third grade.
PARIS: Me, too. I even built a model of the probe.
JANEWAY: Then this should look familiar. It was launched in 2067.
PARIS: Just four years after Zefram Cochrane tested his first warp engine.
NEELIX: What was it designed to do?
CHAKOTAY: Reach out to other species. Pave the way for all the manned missions that would follow.
KIM: They packed it with information, translation matrices, scientific and cultural databases
TORRES: Computer chip designs, instructions for building transceivers. It's practically a how-to manual.
SEVEN: If the Borg had intercepted this probe, humanity would have been assimilated centuries ago.
CHAKOTAY: Our ancestors had no idea what was out here.
NEELIX: This must have been before your Prime Directive?
TUVOK: It was before Starfleet existed.
JANEWAY: In any case, we lost contact with the probe one hundred and thirty years ago but, its last known coordinates
TORRES: Let me guess. Were in the neighborhood.
JANEWAY: Starfleet's mapped out a search grid. It'll take us a little off course, but if the probe is still intact and we're lucky enough to find it, we'll be retrieving a little piece of history.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 54775.4. We've been searching for five days without any sign of the probe, but we're not about to disappoint Starfleet on our first official assignment in seven years.

[Bridge]
KIM: Nothing in grid two nine five.
TUVOK: Mister Paris?
PARIS: Moving on.
KIM: We should try skipping ahead a little to grid three one zero. I stayed up all night re-extrapolating the probe's trajectory. I've compensated for solar winds, ionic interference and a few local anomalies Starfleet wouldn't know about.
TUVOK: Alter course to grid three one zero.
PARIS: Trying to impress the Starfleet brass?
KIM: Just doing my job.
KIM: I'm detecting a titanium signature that matches the probe's parameters.
TUVOK: Location?
KIM: A planet two light years away.
PARIS: Confirmed. Good job, Harry.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: The readings are coming from the northern subcontinent.
JANEWAY: Can you localize them?
SEVEN: There are high levels of antimatter radiation in the atmosphere, scattering the probe's signature.
CHAKOTAY: Any lifesigns?
SEVEN: None.
JANEWAY: Assemble an away team and take the Flyer down for a closer look.

[Sickbay]
CAREY: You seem to be in a good mood, Doctor.
EMH: Just excited to be doing my part for our first official mission, Mister Carey.
PARIS: An inoculation a day keeps the radiation away. I took a look at those atmospheric readings. Thermal eddies, gravimetric sheer. You're going to need your best pilot.
CHAKOTAY: Are you volunteering?
PARIS: If the Doc can spare me.
EMH: I'll muddle through.
EMH: If you're here for your fetal resonance scan, you're a day early.
TORRES: I'm here for my inoculation.
PARIS: You are not going on this mission.
TORRES: Chakotay said he needed an engineer.
PARIS: He's already got one.
TORRES: Now he's got two.
PARIS: Will you excuse us?
NEELIX: Any bets on this one?
CHAKOTAY: My money's on B'Elanna.
TORRES: It's been months since I've been on an away mission.
PARIS: Then try the holodeck. The Flyer is full.
TORRES: You can make room. Neelix doesn't have to go.
PARIS: He's not six months pregnant.
TORRES: Being pregnant doesn't make me an invalid.
PARIS: No, it doesn't. But there's a toxic atmosphere down there and you're breathing for two.
TORRES: All right, you win. But if we have another baby, you carry it, and I'll go on the away missions.
PARIS: It's a deal.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Sorry for the bumpy ride. We'll be clearing the stratosphere in about a minute.
NEELIX: I had a cousin who used to transport disulfides from a gas giant. He claimed to love the turbulence. Of course, disulfides are known to cause delusions.
PARIS: Hang on.
CAREY: I thought it was uninhabited.
KIM: There's nothing alive down there now. Radiation levels are at six thousand isorems.
CAREY: I've localized the signature to a three kilometer radius.
CHAKOTAY: Transfer the coordinates to the helm. When we find the probe, we'll beam it to the cargo hold.
KIM: That may not be easy with all this radiation.
CHAKOTAY: We'd better bring transport enhancers. Set us down, Tom.
PARIS: Yes, sir.
NEELIX: Gently, please.

[Planet surface]
PARIS: I should have brought a holo-camera so I could show B'Elanna she's not missing anything. Can you believe she actually wanted to come with us?
CAREY: When my wife was pregnant, she didn't want to be coddled, either.
PARIS: And she's not half Klingon. Maybe it's us. Something about fatherhood seems to regress the male psyche a few thousand years.
NEELIX: Tom, be careful.
PARIS: It's a toy, like a music box.
CAREY: Vivaldi. I'm getting something. Ninety meters this way.
PARIS: Souvenir.
KIM: Commander, I'm detecting an antimatter signature ahead.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like missile silos.
PARIS: Paris to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
PARIS: We've got a reading that could be the probe. It's inside a cave.
CHAKOTAY: Keep us posted.
CHAKOTAY: The warhead is still active.
KIM: It wouldn't have taken many of these to trigger a nuclear winter.

[Cave]
NEELIX: People must have taken shelter here.
CAREY: That makes sense. The magnesite in these caves would have provided partial shielding from the radiation.
PARIS: Over here.
CAREY: What'd you find?
PARIS: Some kind of control room, or laboratory.
CAREY: Laboratory?
PARIS: Lots of diagnostic equipment. Looks like it was salvaged from a junk heap.
NEELIX: Or scavenged from the ruins.
CAREY: Particle scanners, circuit analyzers. Most of it's still functional. They were working on something.
PARIS: This is what we came for.
CAREY: Whoever lived here must have been studying it.
NEELIX: The data core's still intact.
PARIS: Start setting up the transport enhancers. Paris to Chakotay.

[Planet surface]
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
PARIS (voiceover): We found the probe. Well, pieces of it, anyway.

[Cave]
PARIS: We're getting ready to beam it back up to the Flyer.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): We'll meet you there.
NEELIX: Hello? Is someone there?
CAREY: The tricorder isn't reading any lifesigns.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
CHAKOTAY: Don't move.
CHAKOTAY: You okay? Delta Flyer to Paris. Chakotay to away team. Respond.

[Delta Flyer - cockpit]
KIM: They're antimatter weapons. Shields are offline. What are you doing?
CHAKOTAY: Getting us out of here.
KIM: What about the others?
CHAKOTAY: We can't do them any good if we're dead. We'll come back for them.

[Cave]
CAREY: Look, you're making a mistake.
VERIN: Leave them alone.
VERIN: Who are you?
PARIS: I'm Lieutenant Tom Paris. We're from the Federation starship Voyager.
VERIN: What are these?
PARIS: They're transport enhancers. We were going to use them to retrieve our probe.
VERIN: Your probe? Too bad you didn't come for it sooner. It would have saved us a lot of suffering.

[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: We still can't contact the others or get a fix on their lifesigns.
JANEWAY: Why didn't we detect the aliens?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know. Whoever they are, they have antimatter weapons.
JANEWAY: Antimatter?
TUVOK: Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
TUVOK: We're being hailed from the surface.
JANEWAY: The away team?
TUVOK: No.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway. Who am I speaking with?

[Cave]
VERIN: My name is Verin. Your crewmen are my prisoners.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Why? We haven't done anything to harm you.

[Cave]
VERIN: You committed genocide.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I think there's been a misunderstanding. We arrived here
VERIN (voiceover): You're from Earth?
JANEWAY: Yes.

[Cave]
VERIN: Then you're going to pay for what your people did to us.
JANEWAY (voiceover): I'm sorry, I don't know what you're talking about.
VERIN: We're not as naive as you seem to think we are, Captain. Not any more.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What is it you want?

[Cave]
VERIN: I want you to get us off this planet. Find us a new home.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Release my crewmen and we can talk about it.

[Cave]
VERIN: No more talking. Your people won't be safe until mine are.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Listen, I don't respond well to threats.

[Cave]
VERIN: And I don't want to kill anyone, but I will if you don't cooperate. You have three hours

[Bridge]
VERIN (voiceover): To begin evacuating us.
JANEWAY: Start scanning for the nearest M class planet.
TUVOK: You intend to meet his demands?
JANEWAY: I'm just keeping my options open. You're with me.

[Sickbay]
EMH: I've analyzed his garment. It's lined with magnesite.
JANEWAY: A makeshift environmental suit.
EMH: Unfortunately, the protection it offers is limited. His tissues are saturated with antimatter radiation. It explains why we couldn't detect his lifesigns. They're virtually indistinguishable from the environment.
CHAKOTAY: Now that we know that, maybe we can adjust our sensors to detect them.
JANEWAY: Let's wake him.
JANEWAY: What were you doing aboard our shuttle?
OTRIN: Trying to undo the damage you caused.
JANEWAY: If you're referring to what's happened on your planet, we had nothing to do with it.
OTRIN: Your people sent the probe, didn't they?
CHAKOTAY: Our ancestors sent it three hundred years ago to make contact with other species.
OTRIN: They did a little more than that. Am I your prisoner?
EMH: No. You're suffering from prolonged radiation exposure. I can treat you.
OTRIN: You can?
EMH: I believe I can.
OTRIN: In exchange for what?
EMH: Nothing.
OTRIN: I have a wife, friends.
JANEWAY: We might be able to help them, too. But not while our crewmen are being held hostage. You said you were trying to undo the damage we caused. What did you mean by that?
OTRIN: I was aboard your shuttle looking for technology that might help us neutralize the radiation.
CHAKOTAY: We saw missiles on the surface. Was the destruction caused by war?
OTRIN: Those missiles were built for defense. They were never launched.
JANEWAY: Then what accounts for the devastation?
OTRIN: A containment failure in our power grid. Once the antimatter was released, it destroyed everything.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, but I still don't see how we're responsible.
OTRIN: Before the probe, my people never conceived of anything like antimatter. We offer this information freely with the hope that one day we will stand on your soil and extend our hands in friendship. I'm sure you recognize those words.
JANEWAY: The recording from the probe.
OTRIN: Your people sent us technology that they knew would destroy us.
JANEWAY: I don't understand.
OTRIN: We didn't either at first. But we had decades to think about it, and now it seems so obvious. You send us new technology, encourage us to use it, and then you wait for us to obliterate ourselves.
CHAKOTAY: Why would we do that?
OTRIN: Because it's easier than invading us.
JANEWAY: Do you really believe we'd contaminate a world we intended to conquer?
OTRIN: I'm a scientist. I believe what I see. And today I saw your people standing on our soil just as you promised, and they were wearing equipment that protected them from the radiation because they knew exactly what to expect. If you were in my position, what would you believe?

[Cave]
PARIS: He might have a concussion. I need the medkit from my pack.
BRIN: I was told not to let you use your equipment.
PARIS: When's your baby due? My wife's pregnant, too. We're expecting a little girl in a couple of months.
BRIN: How do you know it's a girl?
PARIS: We have technology that allows us to examine the fetus. She has my eyes and her mother's cranial ridges. Is this your first?
BRIN: No.
PARIS: Oh? Boys? Girls?
BRIN: Two boys and a girl.
PARIS: What are their names?
BRIN: They were all stillborn.
PARIS: I'm sorry.
BRIN: You're a doctor?
PARIS: No, I'm just a medic. But we have the best doctor in the quadrant back on Voyager. He might be able to help.
BRIN: I shouldn't be talking to you.

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: Our current coordinates, and the nearest M class planet one hundred thirty two light years away.
TORRES: At maximum warp that's about two months round trip.
JANEWAY: How many people are we talking about?
KIM: If these sensor modifications are correct, about fifty five hundred.
TUVOK: It would take at least seventeen trips. Almost three years to complete the relocation.
KIM: We've made sacrifices to help people before.
TORRES: What about Tom and the others? Are they supposed to rot down there until this relocation's finished?
JANEWAY: I don't think Verin's going to let go of his only bargaining chips.
TUVOK: Then we may have to use force.
JANEWAY: Not until we've exhausted every other option. These people believe that we're violent. I'm not going to do anything to reinforce that belief unless it becomes absolutely necessary.

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: I've extracted the nanoprobes.
EMH: I'll begin reprogramming them.
OTRIN: Nanoprobes?
SEVEN: Microscopic machines. Hopefully they'll help us repair your damaged tissue.
OTRIN: You said you extracted them. From where?
SEVEN: My bloodstream. They maintain my cybernetic implants.
OTRIN: Nanoprobes, cybernetic implants. Are others on your crew like you?
SEVEN: No, I'm unique.
OTRIN: You certainly are.
JANEWAY: I need a word with your patient. You told me you've been looking for ways to neutralize the radiation.
OTRIN: All my life.
JANEWAY: Tell me about your work.

[Cave]
NEELIX: Lieutenant?
CAREY: I'm okay. My stomach's just a little queasy.
PARIS: Our inoculations must be wearing off.
NEELIX: I thought these caves were naturally shielded.
PARIS: They're no substitute for an environmental suit.
CAREY: These people have lived here all their lives without environmental suits.
NEELIX: These people have lived here without much of anything.
YUN: Hello.
PARIS: Hello. It's all right. We're not going to hurt you. What's your name?
YUN: Yun.
PARIS: Mine's Tom. This is Joe, and Neelix.
YUN: You're not like them.
NEELIX: We're different species, but they're my friends.
YUN: They say you're going to take us on your ship and find us a new home.
NEELIX: I'm sure our captain is trying to help you.
PARIS: Neelix, where's our souvenir?
NEELIX: In my pack.
PARIS: Excuse me. We'd like to give her something. It's in the equipment bag. It's a toy.
VERIN: That could be a weapon.
BRIN: It's harmless.
VERIN: These men are dangerous. I want you to stay away from them. Understood?
PARIS: So much for making friends.
NEELIX: Mister Verin?
PARIS: What are you doing?
NEELIX: My job. I'm Voyager's ambassador, remember? Can I have a word with you?
NEELIX: Just between us, I understand why you don't trust humans.
VERIN: Then why are you with them?
NEELIX: They're not so bad once you get to know them. When I first met them I thought they were arrogant and self-righteous.
VERIN: I suppose you're going to tell me you've changed your mind.
NEELIX: Well, not completely. I still think they take themselves far too seriously for my taste. But one thing they don't do is harm other people.
VERIN: Are you blind?
NEELIX: No, I see very clearly what's happened to you, and I'd like to help.
VERIN: How?
NEELIX: My captain listens to me. I can speak to her on your behalf. Help her understand your situation.
VERIN: What do you know about our situation?
NEELIX: I know what you've been through. My planet was destroyed by a weapon called a Meteron Cascade. Hundreds of thousands of people were killed, including my family.
VERIN: How did you survive?
NEELIX: I was on a neighboring planet when the weapon was detonated. I went back with a rescue team, but there was no one left.
VERIN: I'm sorry about what happened to your family, but don't compare your life to mine.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: The nearest suitable planet is simply too far away so, I'd like to propose

[Cave]
JANEWAY (voiceover): An alternative.
VERIN: There is no alternative.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Please, hear me out. We have one of your people aboard, a Mister Otrin. He has some interesting ideas about counteracting the radiation.
VERIN: Otrin has too many ideas.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I think his theories have merit. What he's lacked until now is the means to carry them out. If you release the hostages, we can work together. There's a good chance we could undo some of the damage to your environment.

[Cave]
VERIN: This isn't a negotiation.
JANEWAY (voiceover): You don't seem to understand. It would take years to evacuate the entire planet.
VERIN: So instead you once again offer us the benefits of your technology.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What I'm offering you is a realistic alternative.

[Cave]
VERIN: If I release the hostages, what's to prevent you from leaving

[Bridge]
VERIN (voiceover): Or attacking us?
JANEWAY: Look, I know you've suffered, and I know you don't trust us.

[Cave]
VERIN: You haven't given me any reason to.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Then why don't we start with a small step. You return one of the hostages and I'll send you a supply of food and medicine.

[Cave]
VERIN: You. What's your name?
CAREY: Joe Carey.
VERIN: Set up your transport enhancers.
VERIN: I'm sorry, Mister Carey.
CAREY: Sorry?
VERIN: Your crewman's ready, Captain.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Transport him to Sickbay.

[Cave]
PARIS: Hey, what the hell

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): Are you doing?
JANEWAY: Tom?
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to bridge.

[Sickbay]
EMH: They've killed Lieutenant Carey.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: If you think murdering one of my crewmen is going to make me more receptive to your demands, you're mistaken.

[Cave]
VERIN: Don't force me to kill anyone else.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: All right, I'll evacuate your people. But our transporters aren't designed to accommodate large groups.

[Cave]
JANEWAY (voiceover): We'll need time to modify them.
VERIN: We'll be ready within the hour. If you're not

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I understand. My ready room.

[Cave]
BRIN: You have radiation poisoning. This will make you feel better.
NEELIX: Thank you.
PARIS: Why are you helping us?
BRIN: Your child's going to need a father, isn't she?

[Sickbay]
SEVEN: The first phase of your therapy is complete. How do you feel?
OTRIN: I can breathe more easily.
SEVEN: Your lungs were damaged by the radiation. The nanoprobes are repairing them.
OTRIN: It's incredible. If we could manufacture more of these, we might be able to treat everyone.
SEVEN: Unfortunately, Mister Verin has refused our help.
OTRIN: Did you expect him to cooperate?
SEVEN: His behavior is irrational.
OTRIN: To you, maybe. But you haven't lived like we have.
SEVEN: No. But that doesn't mean that we're responsible for what's happened here.
OTRIN: You can't deny your people sent the probe.
SEVEN: They made an error in judgment. They failed to anticipate the consequences of their actions. But they never meant to destroy your world. Human culture has evolved, learned from its mistakes. So can yours.
OTRIN: Even if I believed you, Verin never would.
SEVEN: Then your people may need a change of leadership. Someone more open to new ideas.
OTRIN: I'm not a leader.
SEVEN: But you're a scientist. Someone who can see a problem and envision a solution. The same definition could apply to a leader.

[Cave]
PARIS: Doesn't seem fair, does it. My daughter, she'll have food medical care, everything she needs.
WOMAN: What's wrong?
WOMAN: We need help!
BRIN: It's the baby. It's too soon. Let him help me.
VERIN: Can you?
PARIS: I think so. But I'll need my med kit.

[Cave entrance]
GUARD: Inform Verin.

[Cave]
PARIS: I'm losing the heartbeat.
BRIN: Oh, no.
NEELIX: What are you doing?
PARIS: Speeding up the contractions.
GUARD: Their ship's returned.
VERIN: Send out patrols. Double the guard at the entrance.
PARIS: I've got him! He's not breathing. Cardiostimulator. Three millijoules, now.

[Planet surface]
GUARD: Don't move. I'll take him to Verin. Tell the others. This way. Move!

[Cave]
PARIS: Increase the charge to five millijoules. Again. I'm reading a heartbeat.
PARIS: You have a son.
GUARD: One of the patrols took another prisoner.
VERIN: Put him with the others.
PARIS: We need to get him to Voyager.
VERIN: He stays here.
NEELIX: Mister Tuvok.
VERIN: Your Captain was foolish enough to think she could rescue you. Instead, she's given me another hostage.
PARIS: Doc?
EMH: When you need to infiltrate a toxic environment, it helps to be a hologram.
TUVOK: Prepare the transport enhancers. Tuvok to Chakotay.

[Planet surface]
TUVOK (voiceover): We secured the hostages.
CHAKOTAY: Good work. Chakotay to Delta Flyer. Two to beam out.

[Cave]
BRIN: Thank you.
TUVOK: Now, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Your baby won't survive without treatment. I promise we'll bring him back.
BRIN: Take good care of him.
PARIS: I will.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager. Five to beam up.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Cute little fellow, isn't he? He's already responding to treatment.
JANEWAY: Once he's stabilized we'll transport him to the surface, and send along some food and medical supplies.
NEELIX: We're leaving?
JANEWAY: As soon as I report to Starfleet.

[Corridor]
PARIS: Captain, once the baby's back in that environment, he's just going to get sick again.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. We can't keep him from his mother.
PARIS: I'm not suggesting that. You told those people that we might be able to neutralize the radiation. Was that true?
JANEWAY: Yes, but they didn't want our help. I can't force it on them.
NEELIX: Maybe you should. If we help them without asking anything in return, it'll prove they're wrong about us.
JANEWAY: You're forgetting something. They killed Mister Carey. I'm not about to risk any more lives to help murderers.
PARIS: Captain, it was one man who killed Carey. If you saw how they were living, how desperate they are. I'm not saying we should ignore what happened, but humans did play a part in their suffering.
NEELIX: Intentional or not, that probe had a terrible impact on these people. If there's anything we can do to make up for that now, we at least have to try.

[Engineering]
OTRIN: I've adjusted the radiation levels to match the conditions on the surface. Watch. An isolitic chain reaction. It recombines the nucleonic particles in the atmosphere.
JANEWAY: How do we apply your methods on a planetary scale?
SEVEN: Atmospheric processors are one possibility.
JANEWAY: Too bad we don't have a Corps of Engineers to build them. What if we encase the catalytic agent in photon torpedoes? Use the concussive force to start the reaction.
SEVEN: It would require multiple detonations at low altitude, but I believe it could work.
OTRIN: Captain, an isolitic reaction of that magnitude would expand exponentially. Your ship might not survive.
JANEWAY: We'll have to modify our shields, reinforce structural integrity. Well, let's get started.

[Cave]
BRIN: He's beautiful.
OTRIN: And they can give us enough medicine to treat everyone.
VERIN: Can they rebuild our cities? Bring back the people who died?
OTRIN: They're offering to help, and this time no one's coercing them.
VERIN: We can't trust these people. They just sent armed men to attack us.
OTRIN: They only wanted to rescue their hostages.
VERIN: Who knows what they wanted?
OTRIN: You're being irrational.
VERIN: What's irrational is cooperating with the enemy.
BRIN: Look at my child. They said that they would treat him, and they kept their word.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Shield modifications online.
CHAKOTAY: Torpedoes?
SEVEN: Ready.
JANEWAY: Hail them.

[Cave]
VERIN: Listen to me.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Otrin, we're ready to begin.
OTRIN: Understood. Good luck.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Tom, take us down.
PARIS: We're ten thousand meters into the troposphere.
JANEWAY: Fire the first sequence.

[Cave]
VERIN: They're attacking us.
OTRIN: It's only the shockwave from the detonations.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Shields?
TUVOK: Holding at eighteen percent.

[Cave]
VERIN: Are you going to stand there while he helps them destroy us?
OTRIN: What are you doing?
VERIN: Fighting back.

[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, they're opening missile silos. They're targeting Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: At eighteen percent, our shields won't withstand an antimatter explosion.
TUVOK: We should return to orbit.
JANEWAY: Not yet. Fire the next sequence.

[Laboratory]
OTRIN: You can't launch those missiles.
VERIN: Hold him.
BRIN: Stop.
VERIN: What are you doing?
BRIN: I won't let you ruin our only chance for survival.
VERIN: You'd kill me?
BRIN: To save my child? Yes.
VERIN: Get that weapon away from her.
GUARD: No, sir.
VERIN: I've kept you alive. All of you!
OTRIN: And we're grateful for that. But survival isn't enough anymore.
VERIN: Are you in command now?
OTRIN: If I have to be.
YUN: Everyone, come outside. Hurry.
OTRIN: Bring him.

[Planet surface]
YUN: It's beautiful.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, supplemental. We've retrieved Friendship One and resumed our course to the Alpha Quadrant, but the success of our mission had a very high price.

[Carey's quarters]
CHAKOTAY: Impressive, isn't it?
JANEWAY: The detail's amazing.
CHAKOTAY: Carey spent months working on it. He used to joke that he wouldn't be finished by the time we got back to Earth.
JANEWAY: He only had one nacelle to go.
CHAKOTAY: We were able to download the probe's memory core. We'll transmit the telemetry in the next data stream.
JANEWAY: I think about our ancestors. Thousands of years wondering if they were alone in the universe, and finally discovering they weren't. You can't blame them for wanting to reach out, see how many other species were out there asking the same questions.
CHAKOTAY: The urge to explore is pretty powerful.
JANEWAY: But it can't justify the loss of lives, whether it's millions or just one.

[Shuttlecraft]
CHAKOTAY: Beautiful, isn't it?
SEVEN: A sensor analysis would have provided the necessary information.
CHAKOTAY: Just admiring the view.
SEVEN: The conference begins in less than an hour.
CHAKOTAY: There's always time for Warp Field Dynamics, but you don't see natural beauty like this every day.
CHAKOTAY: What was that?
SEVEN: Some kind of energy barrier directly below us. It spans thousands of square kilometers.
CHAKOTAY: Why didn't our sensors detect it?
SEVEN: Uncertain. It has an unusual tetrion signature. Species three one two used a similar technology. There's a power surge coming from the barrier.
CHAKOTAY: Shields at full.
SEVEN: They're creating some kind of feedback. We've lost impulse engines.
CHAKOTAY: Go to warp.
SEVEN: The warp core is offline.
CHAKOTAY: Warp engines don't just shut down when you scrape an energy barrier.
SEVEN: It's affecting all our systems.
COMPUTER: Warning. Structural failure in thirty seconds.
CHAKOTAY: We'll have to beam to the surface.
SEVEN: We can't transport through the barrier. Transfer auxiliary power to the weapons array.
CHAKOTAY: What are you trying to do?
SEVEN: If I can realign our phasers to the correct frequency, I may be able to open a rift.
CHAKOTAY: Big enough to get a shuttle through, I hope?
COMPUTER: Warning. Structural failure in ten seconds, nine, eight.
SEVEN: Phasers reconfigured.

[Jungle]
SEVEN: The barrier's closed again.
SEVEN: I should examine you.
CHAKOTAY: I don't think it's serious.
SEVEN: You have a hairline fracture.
CHAKOTAY: We've got bigger problems. I'll be fine.
SEVEN: I'm detecting shuttle debris scattered over several square kilometers.
CHAKOTAY: Some of it might still be functional.
SEVEN: If we can find the right components, we may be able to construct a beacon. Send a distress signal.
CHAKOTAY: Through the barrier?
SEVEN: Maybe.
CHAKOTAY: If we hurry we might still make that conference. Well, if we have to be stranded somewhere, we couldn't ask for a nicer place.
SEVEN: We wouldn't be stranded at all if you hadn't insisted on admiring the view.

[Delta Flyer]
AUTHORITY OFFICER (screen): Guest Vessel 74656, this is Ledos Port Control. Shut down your engines.
PARIS: This is Lieutenant Tom Paris. Is there a problem?
PORT AUTHORITY OFFICER (screen): You were observed committing piloting violation two five six.
PARIS: I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with your regulations. It won't happen again.
PORT AUTHORITY OFFICER (screen): You'll be informed of the penalty.
PARIS: What kind of penalty?
PORT AUTHORITY OFFICER (screen): That's not my decision. Your docking permit says you're assigned to the starship Voyager?
PARIS: That's right.
PORT AUTHORITY OFFICER (screen): Your commanding officer will be notified of your infraction.

[Ready Room]
PARIS: Piloting lessons?
JANEWAY: Apparently, the standard penalty for your infraction is a three day course in flight safety, followed by a test.
PARIS: Well, did you explain we wouldn't be here that long?
JANEWAY: Actually, while you were completing your mission, Seven was invited to a four day conference.
PARIS: Here on Ledos?
JANEWAY: I decided to give the entire crew shore leave. It'll give you plenty of time to brush up on your piloting skills.
PARIS: I don't need lessons.
JANEWAY: Apparently the authorities disagree.
PARIS: But Captain
JANEWAY: You may not have known the Ledosians' rules, but you know ours. Comply with local law. Understood?
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

[Jungle]
SEVEN: The relays are fused. It's useless.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like we're not the only ones here.
SEVEN: Indigenous wildlife, perhaps.
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading residual lifesigns. They're humanoid.
SEVEN: Ledosian?
CHAKOTAY: No. But they share the same genetic traits. Whoever they are, they may be able to help us.
SEVEN: Unless they're hostile.
CHAKOTAY: Why don't we give them the benefit of the doubt. The lifesigns lead in that direction.
SEVEN: I suggest you rest your leg while I investigate.
CHAKOTAY: It's better is we stick together, at least until we know whether they're hostile.

[Above a clearing]
CHAKOTAY: I'm guessing they're pre-warp.
SEVEN: Obviously they can't help us.
CHAKOTAY: No, I don't suppose they can. But they're fascinating, aren't they? I never expected to run into people like these on such a technologically advanced planet.
SEVEN: This isn't an anthropological mission, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: You're right. We should keep searching for debris. Argh!
SEVEN: You're developing an infection. You should rest.
CHAKOTAY: I'll have to stay here and try to keep out of sight.
SEVEN: I'll contact you if I find anything useful.
CHAKOTAY: I guess I don't have to tell you to avoid interacting with these people.

[Jungle]
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Chakotay.

[Above a clearing]
SEVEN (voiceover): Seven of Nine to Chakotay.
SEVEN (voiceover): Commander, respond. I've found something. Seven of Nine to Chakotay.

[Cave - night]
SEVEN: Step away from him.
CHAKOTAY: It's all right, Seven. They're friendly. They're treating my wound.
SEVEN: You said we were supposed to avoid interaction.
CHAKOTAY: They found me. There was nothing I could do.
SEVEN: You should have tried to contact me.
CHAKOTAY: I didn't want to expose them to our technology.
SEVEN: You hid your comm. badge?
CHAKOTAY: Actually, your call scared them. They broke it.
SEVEN: I suggest we leave before they break anything else.
CHAKOTAY: Look, they're friendly, and I am hurt.
SEVEN: What are you suggesting?
CHAKOTAY: We may as well stay the night.
SEVEN: Commander.
CHAKOTAY: It's good shelter. And my leg feels better since they put this dressing on. I'm going to get some rest. I suggest you do the same.

[Corridor]
KIM: Chell says we shouldn't miss the Flame Gardens.
NEELIX: I hear the arboretum is beautiful, too.
TORRES: We can do both.
KIM: Tom. You joining us? Oh, that's right, you have to go to pilot school.
TORRES: I hear the course takes days.
PARIS: Yeah, for most people. But I did a little research. If the instructor agrees, you can skip the lessons and go right to the test. So I will be seeing you in a couple of hours.
NEELIX: You have to admire his optimism.

[Transporter Room]
OPERATOR: Just a moment, sir.
KLEG: I am Mister Kleg, the flying instructor. Are you Lieutenant Paris?
KIM: He is.
PARIS: It's an honor to meet you, sir. May I show you to the Delta Flyer?
KLEG: Why?
PARIS: So you can explain what I did wrong, and then administer the test.
KLEG: It sounds to me like you need lessons in patience as well.
TORRES: Oh, Tom is very patient, sir.
NEELIX: Never impulsive.
KIM: Take all the time you need. He'll enjoy the extra attention.
KLEG: Well, I'm please to hear it. We'll start with a review of safety procedures. Do you have a visual display system I can access?
PARIS: I think I can find one.
TORRES: Have fun.
KIM: Energize.
PARIS: So how long will this review take?
KLEG: Oh, typically about four hours. But there's no rush.
PARIS: Of course not.

[Clearing - day]
CHAKOTAY: River.
CHAKOTAY: Mountain.
CHAKOTAY: Where are we?
CHAKOTAY: This?
CHAKOTAY: You want to trade? Well, I suppose it won't hurt.
CHAKOTAY: I'll take that as a thank you.
SEVEN: Did you make a favorable exchange?
CHAKOTAY: I didn't want to insult their customs. Any luck?
SEVEN: I may have found a way of communicating.
CHAKOTAY: Me too. I've learned to say thank you.
SEVEN: I was referring to communication with Voyager. It may be possible to construct a beacon by connecting these components to the shuttle's deflector.
CHAKOTAY: Did you find it?
SEVEN: I detected it six kilometers from here. I believe it's intact.
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure I'm up to that long a trip.
SEVEN: I'll go.
CHAKOTAY: I've started mapping the area. Here's the river we passed. This is where we beamed down. And we're here now.
SEVEN: Then the deflector should be approximately here.
CHAKOTAY: Six kilometers is a long way. Maybe one of them could guide you.
SEVEN: I'm still trying to limit our contact with these people.
CHAKOTAY: The sooner you get to the deflector, the sooner we can get out of here. They know the terrain. Maybe they can get you there faster.
SEVEN: And watch me construct a tetrion-based signaling device.
CHAKOTAY: All right, but be careful. Seven. This is how they say goodbye.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you.
CHAKOTAY: Hello.

[Jungle]
SEVEN: Identify yourself.
SEVEN: An exothermic reaction.
SEVEN: I'm not hungry.

[Delta Flyer]
KLEG: Inadequate system integration. Visibility impaired by lateral sensor array. Insufficient console accessibility.
PARIS: You know, I couldn't agree more. Those are some of the defects that led to my so-called pilot error.
KLEG: Polarity thrusters? Oh, they've been known to cause accidental acceleration.
PARIS: Exactly my point. Why should I be held responsible for the ship's design flaws?
KLEG: According to the maintenance records, you were this vessel's chief designer. I make it a point of professional pride to research every case I'm assigned to. Are you familiar with that term, Lieutenant? Professional pride?
PARIS: Yes, sir. In fact, that is why I'm so eager to get underway. I want to prove to you that I'm a good pilot.
KLEG: There are protocols, Mister Paris. System by system diagnostics, pre-flight simulations.
PARIS: You must have other students who need your attention. It wouldn't be fair to
KLEG: Don't worry, Lieutenant. I'm planning to spend as much time with you as you need.

[Jungle - day]
SEVEN: Good morning.
SEVEN: I'm trying to go here.
SEVEN: Can you show me?
SEVEN: Yes. I thought it was this way.
SEVEN: Yes, it's quite an impressive view. Now we really have to

[Clearing]
CHAKOTAY: My friend, she hasn't come back. I need to find her.
CHAKOTAY: She looks like this. Where?
CHAKOTAY: Where'd you get this?
CHAKOTAY: My friend. Where?

[Debris field]
SEVEN: Don't touch that! Please.

[Astrometrics]
JANEWAY: Problem?
TUVOK: Commander Chakotay failed to report in at the scheduled time. We tried hailing, but there was no response.
KIM: We contacted the conference coordinator. He said Seven and Chakotay never showed up.
JANEWAY: Anything on sensors?
KIM: We've located a hull signature over the southern subcontinent, but it's only a wing.
JANEWAY: Nothing else? No lifesigns?
KIM: No, ma'am.
JANEWAY: That's awfully low for something to be in orbit.
TUVOK: It's not in orbit. It's resting on an energy barrier.
KIM: We think the shuttle may have collided with it.
JANEWAY: Why didn't they see it?
TUVOK: Standard scans didn't reveal its presence. We were only able to detect it with our Borg sensors.
JANEWAY: If all you found was a wing, maybe the rest of the shuttle made it through the barrier.
TUVOK: Logic suggests that possibility. Unfortunately, the barrier's deflecting all our scans. There's no way to know if the shuttle or its occupants are on the other side.
JANEWAY: Hail the Ledosian ambassador.

[Bridge]
AMBASSADOR (screen): We'd have warned your Commander, but his flight plan didn't go anywhere near that area.
JANEWAY: He must have altered his route for some reason.
AMBASSADOR (screen): And collided with the barrier. I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: We're not assuming they're dead.
TUVOK: We believe they may have found a way through.
AMBASSADOR (screen): That's very unlikely.
JANEWAY: They're resourceful people. Can you tell us anything about the barrier?
AMBASSADOR (screen): It shields the territory of an indigenous society, the Ventu.
JANEWAY: Then the area's habitable. If you lowered the barrier, we could scan for our people's lifesigns.
AMBASSADOR (screen): I'm afraid we can't do that.
JANEWAY: Why not?
AMBASSADOR (screen): It was erected by aliens hundreds of years ago. They haven't been back. The technology is a mystery to us.
TUVOK: Why did these aliens build the barrier?
AMBASSADOR (screen): To protect the Ventu.
JANEWAY: From whom?
AMBASSADOR (screen): Us. Our ancestors fought them, polluted their habitat. I'm afraid we weren't very enlightened back then.
JANEWAY: Earth went through its dark periods too, Ambassador. Would you have any objections if we tried to lower the barrier, just to scan for our people?
AMBASSADOR (screen): I told you, it's not possible.
TUVOK: Perhaps if you gave us information about the barrier's power source?
AMBASSADOR (screen): The generator is inside. There's no way to access it. Even if your people did survive, I'm afraid there's no way to get them out.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 54827.7. Although the Ledosians are skeptical, they're allowing us to try to locate our people. Meanwhile, we've begun to analyze the shuttle fragment.

[Engineering]
TORRES: The burn patterns suggest a tetrion flux.
TUVOK: We found a reference to similar technology in Seven's Borg database.
JANEWAY: You think the Borg erected it?
TUVOK: No, but it may have been constructed by people they later assimilated. Species three one two.
JANEWAY: If Seven were here, she might be able to figure out a way to get through it.
TORRES: Maybe she already did. Some of the damage to the wing was caused by feedback from the shuttle's phasers.
JANEWAY: Seven and Chakotay might have used them to penetrate the barrier for some reason.
TUVOK: If I can determine the appropriate frequency, I may be able to do the same thing. But there is risk involved.
JANEWAY: What sort of risk?
TORRES: It looks like the feedback from the barrier is what destroyed the shuttle. If we're not careful the same thing could happen to Voyager.

[Debris field]
SEVEN: May I see those?
CHAKOTAY: Seven, is everything all right?
SEVEN: I need your tricorder.
CHAKOTAY: Nice to see you, too.
SEVEN: I lost mine. There's a strong magnetic field here that's preventing me from generating a deflector beam. But the field drops off approximately four point eight kilometers in that direction.
CHAKOTAY: Can you transmit the signal from there?
SEVEN: Not through the barrier, but I may be able to neutralize it by generating a dampening field with our deflector.
CHAKOTAY: Even if you're right, this must weight five hundred kilos. How would we move it?
SEVEN: Some of them could help us.
CHAKOTAY: We shouldn't involve them.
SEVEN: Do I detect a change in attitude, Commander?
CHAKOTAY: Your concern was justified. They've been gathering debris from the shuttle, using it to imitate us. I don't want them helping.
SEVEN: What's the alternative? Staying here? Allowing them to find all of the debris? If we neutralize the barrier, Voyager can transport us and our technology off the surface.
CHAKOTAY: Is there a possibility that this dampening field could disrupt the barrier permanently?
SEVEN: Unlikely. Once the deflector is deactivated the barrier should reinitialize.
CHAKOTAY: Let's hope you're right.

[Delta Flyer]
KLEG: So you can execute a turn at less than three hundred kph. Well done, Lieutenant.
PARIS: Thanks. You know, I don't want to seem impatient again, but is there any way you'd let me take that test now?
KLEG: I thought I'd made myself clear about that. All my students complete the entire course.
PARIS: I understand, sir, but two of my friends are missing, and I'd like to help find them.
KLEG: Well, that's an admirable sentiment. But if I give you special treatment it wouldn't be fair to the others who have to take this course. Besides, why stop now? You're getting very close to becoming an adequate pilot.

[Rocky Rise]
SEVEN: Here, Commander.
SEVEN: Not so close.

[Bridge]
KIM: Phasers are starting to overload.
JANEWAY: Can we divert any more power to the shields?
TUVOK: The shields are amplifying the feedback.
TORRES: The barrier's interfering with every system we activate.
JANEWAY: Cease fire. I'm open to suggestions.
TUVOK: We may be able to reconfigure a photon torpedo to detonate at the appropriate frequency.
JANEWAY: What about feedback?
TUVOK: A torpedo shouldn't create any. Theoretically.
JANEWAY: Do it.

[Rocky Rise]
SEVEN: They're too close.
CHAKOTAY: Back, behind the rise. Stay back.

[Bridge]
KIM: The energy barrier's coming down.
JANEWAY: I thought you were still reconfiguring the torpedo.
TUVOK: I am. It's being deactivated from the inside.
JANEWAY: Harry, scan for lifesigns.
KIM: Aye, Captain.

[Rocky Rise]
SEVEN: Take it off!

[Bridge]
KIM: I'm only reading one comm. badge. It's Seven's.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. Janeway to Seven.

[Rocky Rise]
JANEWAY (voiceover): Are you and Chakotay all right?
SEVEN: Yes, Captain.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Stand by for transport.
SEVEN: Lock on to Commander Chakotay. I need more time.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Is there a problem?
SEVEN: Someone's been injured. She requires medical attention.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Do you need the Doctor?
SEVEN: I believe I can treat her. A medkit would be useful.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Acknowledged. Captain's log, supplemental. Seven has remained on the surface to tend to the injured Ventu girl, while Chakotay is being treated in Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
EMH: The poultice healed the fracture and the infection. I'm impressed.
CHAKOTAY: They're impressive people. I just hope we haven't traumatized them.
JANEWAY: You did what you had to do to get out of there.
CHAKOTAY: Still, I think we transport all the shuttle debris back to Voyager as soon as possible.
JANEWAY: Agreed.

[Cave]
SEVEN: Would you like some breakfast? I'm not hungry either.
SEVEN: I admire your curiosity, but you should be more careful. It's time for me to leave.
SEVEN: Back to my home.
SEVEN: That's very kind, but I have no use for it. I supposed I should respect your customs. Thank you.
BARUS (voiceover): These botanical specimens indicate a high level of serum nitrates.

[Clearing]
BARUS: Catalog those foliates.
SEVEN: Explain your presence here.
BARUS: Oh. You must be from Voyager.
SEVEN: Who are you?
BARUS: My name is Barus. I'm the expedition leader.
SEVEN: What kind of expedition are you leading?
BARUS: We're conducting scans to evaluate the potential of this habitat.
SEVEN: Potential for what?
BARUS: Anthropological research, resource development. We've been waiting years for this.
SEVEN: What about the people who live here?
BARUS: We'll help them, of course.
SEVEN: How?
BARUS: With medicine, infrastructure, education. Whoever lowered this barrier did the Ventu a great favor.

[Ready room]
CHAKOTAY: That barrier has to go back up.
SEVEN: Isn't it possible the Ledosians will improve the lives of the Ventu?
CHAKOTAY: Improve them? How?
SEVEN: They're intelligent people. Exposure to education and technology may give them better opportunities.
CHAKOTAY: Can you honestly say that you know what's better for them?
SEVEN: No, I can't.
JANEWAY: Then what do you think we should do?
SEVEN: I'm uncertain.
JANEWAY: It's not like you to be on the fence.
SEVEN: When Commander Chakotay and I first encountered the Ventu, I found them primitive, of little interest to me. But as I spent time with them, I came to realize that they're a resourceful, self-reliant people. Their isolation may limit their potential, but if that isolation ends, so will a unique way of life.

[Bridge]
AMBASSADOR (screen): We appreciate your help in opening this territory to exploration, Captain. It's an unprecedented opportunity.
JANEWAY: A short-lived opportunity, I'm afraid.
AMBASSADOR (screen): I don't understand.
JANEWAY: After I transport our deflector back to Voyager, the energy barrier will go back up.
TUVOK: Naturally, you'll want to get your people out, so they won't be trapped inside as ours were.
AMBASSADOR (screen): You have no right to limit our access to our own territory.
JANEWAY: I'm not trying to do that, but we have a strict policy about leaving our technology in the hands of other cultures. It often has damaging consequences.
AMBASSADOR (screen): I don't think you realize how important this is. It's not only the resources that interest us. The Ventu are our evolutionary ancestors. Our living history.
JANEWAY: I understand this is disappointing for you, but I'm afraid I have no choice.
AMBASSADOR (screen): In the spirit of cooperation, I hope you'll reconsider.
JANEWAY: We're eager to resume course. Would an hour be enough time to evacuate your people?
AMBASSADOR (screen): I'll make the arrangements.(Later -_
KIM: We've transported all the remaining debris to the Cargo Bay.
SEVEN: I have a lock on the deflector assembly.
JANEWAY: What is it?
TUVOK: There's a Ledosian vessel on an intercept course. It's charging weapons.
JANEWAY: Shields!
TUVOK: Direct hit to the transporters. They're offline.
JANEWAY: Get a weapons lock and hail them.
KIM: They're hailing us.
AMBASSADOR (screen): Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: What's going on?
AMBASSADOR (screen): Our government has decided not to let you restore the barrier.
JANEWAY: And that justifies an unprovoked attack?
AMBASSADOR (screen): We only targeted your transporters to avoid harming your crew. I hope you'll show the same restraint.
JANEWAY: I don't find weapons fire of any kind restrained.
AMBASSADOR (screen): If you want to avoid further conflict, I suggest you leave.
JANEWAY: Take us out of orbit.
CHAKOTAY: What about the deflector?
JANEWAY: Is Tom still in the Flyer?
KIM: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Hail him.

[Delta Flyer]
KLEG: Excellent, Mister Paris. Now, come about slowly.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Janeway to Paris. Respond.
KLEG: Captain, I'd appreciate it if you didn't interrupt my student during his examination.
JANEWAY (voiceover): I'm sorry

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: But something's come up.
PARIS (voiceover): What is it, Captain?
JANEWAY: Tom, I'm sending you some encrypted orders.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
KLEG: This is highly irregular.
KLEG: You're going much too fast.
PARIS: Yes, sir. I'm in a bit of a hurry.
KLEG: If you have any desire to pass this test, you will reduce your speed immediately.
PARIS: I wish I could do that, sir. I really do.
KLEG: What was that?
PARIS: Paris to Voyager.

[Bridge]
PARIS (voiceover): I'm under attack.
JANEWAY: Give him some help, Mister Tuvok.

[Delta Flyer]
BARUS: What have you done?
PARIS: We had to get you out of there before we close the barrier.
BARUS: You can't do that.
PARIS: Just sit back and enjoy the ride. Paris to Voyager. I've got them.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Find the deflector.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: I'm getting a lock on it now.
PARIS: My transporters are offline.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: You'd better get out of there, Tom.
PARIS (voiceover): Not yet.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: I've got an idea.
KLEG: I am sorry to inform you, Mister Paris, but you have failed this examination. You will no longer be allowed to operate a vessel within Ledosian space.
PARIS: Something tells me that's not going to be a problem.

[Cargo bay]
CHAKOTAY: This is a beautiful blanket.
SEVEN: Take it if you'd like. I don't need it.
CHAKOTAY: If environmental systems ever go down, you might get cold. You know, I
SEVEN: I'd like to
CHAKOTAY: You first.
SEVEN: Please, continue.
CHAKOTAY: In all the excitement, I never apologized.
SEVEN: For what?
CHAKOTAY: Causing you to miss that conference.
SEVEN: As a matter of fact, I wanted to thank you for that.
CHAKOTAY: I thought you were angry.
SEVEN: I was, but you were right. Warp Mechanics can be studied any time. The Ventu, on the other hand.
CHAKOTAY: Something's still bothering you?
SEVEN: I'm concerned for their well-being.
CHAKOTAY: They know how to take care of themselves.
SEVEN: That's not what I mean. Members of the Ledosian expedition had the opportunity to scan my deflector modifications. In time, they may find a way to duplicate our technology and remove the barrier themselves.
CHAKOTAY: I supposed it's possible.
SEVEN: If I'd never made those modifications
CHAKOTAY: We might still be stranded there. I don't know about you, but I'm glad to be back on Voyager.
SEVEN: As am I.

[Mess hall]
TORRES: Now, these are delicious.
KIM: Leave some for the rest of us.
TORRES: Hey, I'm eating for two.
PARIS: Great party, Neelix.
NEELIX: Everybody seems to be enjoying it.
PARIS: Yeah, except the Doc.
NEELIX: Those are for eating, not scanning.
EMH: What exactly are they?
NEELIX: Cheese pirogues. Zefram Cochrane's favorite.
EMH: They have absolutely no nutritional value.
NEELIX: This is a party, Doctor. Sometimes you have to forget about nutrition.
EMH: You could include a vitamin supplement when you replicate them.
NEELIX: Replicate? I made them myself.
JANEWAY: You two have outdone yourselves. I've never seen First Contact Day celebrated quite like this. When I was your age, all it meant was a day off from school.
NAOMI: Neelix and I thought we should make it more fun.
JANEWAY: Well, you certainly succeeded.
NAOMI: When is Commander Tuvok making his presentation?
NEELIX: Well, now's as good a time as any. Captain?
NEELIX: May I have everyone's attention, please? In honor of the three hundred and fifteenth anniversary of his ancestors' arrival on Earth, I've asked Mister Tuvok to recite the first words spoken to humans by a Vulcan. Commander.
TUVOK: Is this really necessary?
NEELIX: You promised.
TUVOK: Very well. Live long and prosper.
NEELIX: And now, for some more of Zefram Cochrane's favorite music. Hey, come on, Mister Vulcan.
TUVOK: Vulcans do not dance.
NEELIX: But it's tradition.
TUVOK: There is no tradition, Mister Neelix. This ceremony is entirely your invention.
JANEWAY: This is an official ship function, Commander. Don't make me order you to dance.
CHAKOTAY: Sorry to interrupt, but I've got some interesting news. Neelix, you might want to hear this. Long range sensors have detected several hundred lifesigns approximately four point nine light years away. They're Talaxian.

[Bridge]
NEELIX: Are we there yet?
JANEWAY: Not exactly. The lifesigns appear to be coming from inside that asteroid field.
NEELIX: From a ship?
TUVOK: We are not detecting any vessels.
NEELIX: No response from hails?
KIM: Not yet.
NEELIX: I hope they're all right.
CHAKOTAY: There's a lot of interference. Maybe they haven't received our transmissions.
NEELIX: Can we move in any closer?
PARIS: Voyager's too big to maneuver safely in there. We could take the Flyer.

[Delta Flyer]
NEELIX: It wouldn't have hurt you to do a few steps.
TUVOK: I am trying to concentrate on the shields, Mister Neelix.
NEELIX: I think you were just afraid.
TUVOK: That's absurd.
NEELIX: It's understandable. There were a lot of people watching.
TUVOK: Vulcans don't experience fear.
NEELIX: I'm going to make it my personal mission to get you to dance at least once before we reach Earth.
TUVOK: Then I suggest you find a more productive hobby.
PARIS: If you two don't stop it, I'm going to come back there and separate you.
TUVOK: I've localized the lifesigns, bearing one zero eight mark twenty six. They appear to be inside a large asteroid.
NEELIX: Inside?
NEELIX: What was that?
TUVOK: A thermalyte explosive, thirty point six kilometers to port. I'm detecting another projectile heading directly toward us. Evasive maneuvers.
TUVOK: We've lost shields.
PARIS: Main propulsion is offline. We're going to have to make an emergency landing.
NEELIX: Where?
PARIS: The Talaxians' asteroid is the closest.
TUVOK: The surface is covered with craters, ice fields.
PARIS: We don't have a choice. Hold on.

[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: Problem?
SEVEN: We've lost contact with the away team. I also detected some unusual energy discharges in the asteroid field.
JANEWAY: What kind of discharges?
SEVEN: It's difficult to tell because of the interference, but they appear to be thermalytic explosions. I believe several of them were in close proximity to the Flyer.
JANEWAY: Source?
SEVEN: Unknown.
JANEWAY: We'll need to send a rescue team. Work with B'Elanna. Try to modify the shields on one of the shuttles to withstand these explosions.

[Dexa's quarters]
DEXA: Stay still. Don't worry, it's not serious.
NEELIX: Am I inside the asteroid?
DEXA: Yes. This is my home.
NEELIX: Where are my friends?
DEXA: If you mean the aliens who were on the ship with you, they're safe.
NEELIX: I'd like to see them.
DEXA: You need to rest. What were you doing in the asteroid field?
NEELIX: Looking for you. Well, not you specifically. But my ship detected Talaxians. I haven't come across any in years, so. I'm sorry, I'm Neelix.
DEXA: Dexa. I had an uncle named Neelix. Are there other Talaxians on your ship?
NEELIX: I'm the only one.
DEXA: Why are you living with aliens?
NEELIX: They're my friends. Did you receive our hails?
DEXA: Yes.
NEELIX: Why didn't you respond?
DEXA: We avoid contact with outsiders.
NEELIX: We were attacked. There were explosions. Did you?
DEXA: No. We're not violent.
NEELIX: Who fired at us?
DEXA: No one fired at you. There are miners who use explosive charges to break apart the asteroids so they can collect minerals from the debris.
NEELIX: I wish we'd known.
DEXA: Why were you carrying weapons?
NEELIX: It's standard procedure for an away mission. Hello. What's your name?
BRAX: Brax. What's yours?
DEXA: I told you not to come in here.
BRAX: I just want to see him.
DEXA: You're supposed to be helping Oxilon.
BRAX: He doesn't look dangerous to me.
NEELIX: I think you have the wrong idea about us.
DEXA: I'm not supposed to be talking to you at all.
NEELIX: I'm feeling better. I'd like to see my friends now.
NEELIX: What are you doing?
DEXA: I've been told not to let you leave.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Harry?
KIM: Still no response to hails.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the shuttlebay.
SEVEN (voiceover): Go ahead, Captain.
JANEWAY: What's the status of the shield modifications?
SEVEN (voiceover): Lieutenant Torres and I will be finished in a few minutes.
JANEWAY: Good. Take an away team and find them.
KIM: Captain, there's a ship approaching from astern. We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
NOCONA (screen): Identify yourselves.
JANEWAY: I'm Captain Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager.
NOCONA (screen): Commander Nocona. This is our asteroid field.
JANEWAY: We weren't aware of that.
NOCONA (screen): Now you are.
JANEWAY: We lost one of our shuttles inside the field. We're preparing to send a rescue team.
NOCONA (screen): All the resources belong to us.
JANEWAY: We're not interested in the resources. We were only trying to make contact with the Talaxians.
NOCONA (screen): What's your interest in them?
JANEWAY: One of my crewmen is from Talax. He was eager to meet some of his people.
NOCONA (screen): You should have requested permission before sending in a shuttle. We have a mining operation in progress.
CHAKOTAY: Does that explain the explosions we detected?
NOCONA (screen): Mining charges.
JANEWAY: We'd appreciate it if you'd stop using them until we can get our people out.
NOCONA (screen): I'm sorry. We're on a strict deadline. But I'll conduct a search for your crew. If they need help, we'll provide it.
JANEWAY: That's kind of you, but we're prepared to go in and get them ourselves.
NOCONA (screen): I cannot guarantee your safety if you enter the asteroid field. Stay here. We'll contact you when we find your people.

[Dexa's quarters]
NEELIX: I don't think you're supposed to be here.
BRAX: This is my home. You can't tell me what to do.
NEELIX: No, of course not. I just don't want you to get in trouble. Is that a model ship? What's it called? How about The Two-Tailed Talchok? The Fur Fly? The ship I come from is called Voyager.
BRAX: Is it big?
NEELIX: And fast.
BRAX: Can I see it?
NEELIX: I think it would be a little difficult to take you there while I'm stuck here. But if your mother would let me out
BRAX: That's her.
NEELIX: You better hide.
BRAX: You won't tell her I'm here?
NEELIX: No, of course not.
DEXA: Neelix, this is Oxilon, our council regent.
NEELIX: I wish I could say it was nice to meet you, but this wasn't exactly the welcome I was expecting.
OXILON: You're free to go now.
NEELIX: What about my friends?
OXILON: We've determined they aren't hostile. They've been treated for their injuries and asked to leave.
DEXA: They're aboard your shuttle making repairs. I'll take you there.
NEELIX: Well, now that everything has been cleared up, maybe we could talk, get to know each other a little.
OXILON: If you like.
NEELIX: My friends, too?
OXILON: I'm sorry.
NEELIX: Why not?
OXILON: We've learned from experience to keep to ourselves.
NEELIX: Well, if they're not welcome, I'm not staying either.
OXILON: That's your choice.

[Public area]
DEXA: I know Oxilon seems overly cautious, but we're not used to having visitors.
NEELIX: How many of you live here?
DEXA: Close to five hundred. All of our homes are connected to the central cabin by tunnels and lifts. They allow us to easily move from one section of the asteroid to another.
NEELIX: It must have taken years to build all of this.
DEXA: Almost five. It still isn't finished.
NEELIX: Where did the technology come from?
DEXA: We arrived here with a caravan of six ships. We disassembled all but one of them and modified their components. We converted torpedo launchers to blast away rock and excavate these tunnels. These conduits run into the asteroid's core. We use geothermal energy to melt the ice that covers most of the outer surface. It provides us with oxygen and water.
NEELIX: Who'd have imagined all of this inside an asteroid? Your son seems like a wonderful boy.
DEXA: How would you know? You only met him for a few seconds.
NEELIX: True, but I'm a quick judge of character.
DEXA: He came to see you while I was out, didn't he?
NEELIX: You can't blame him for being curious.
DEXA: Hmm. He's a lot like his father. No fear.
NEELIX: I'd like to meet your husband.
DEXA: He's dead.
NEELIX: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to
DEXA: It's all right. You didn't know.

[Delta Flyer]
PARIS: Neelix. Are you all right?
NEELIX: I'm fine. Dexa, this is Lieutenant Paris, and Commander Tuvok.
PARIS: Thanks for bringing him back. We were getting worried.
NEELIX: It was nice to meet you.
NEELIX: So, what can I do to help?
PARIS: You can give me a hand with this plasma manifold. How did it go?
NEELIX: Well, er, they didn't exactly send out a welcoming committee, but I'm sure they had their reasons. I guess my expectations were a little high.
TUVOK: I regret that you didn't have a more fulfilling experience.
NEELIX: That's nice of you to say, Commander, but it wasn't a complete waste of time. I got to meet some of my people again, even if it was a short visit. Who knows, it's probably the last time I'll ever see another Talaxian.
PARIS: Good work. Now we need to run a systems
COMPUTER: Intruder alert.
PARIS: At least we know internal sensors are working.

[Delta Flyer - aft compartment]
NEELIX: Brax.
TUVOK: You know him?
NEELIX: We're old friends.
BRAX: You said you'd take me to see Voyager.
NEELIX: I don't think your mother would approve.
BRAX: You won't tell her I was here, will you?
NEELIX: Here? I, I have no idea what you're talking about. I'll be right back.

[Asteroid corridor]
OXILON: Three days isn't nearly enough time for us to dismantle all our equipment.
NOCONA: Then you should have begun the first time we asked. We can't wait any longer. Demolition of the asteroid is going to start whether you're here or not.
DEXA: You'd kill us?
NOCONA: We don't want to hurt anyone, but our patience has run out.
OXILON: We've only got one ship. There won't be enough room for any of our belongings.
NOCONA: It's not our fault you took apart your other vessels.
DEXA: You can't do this.
OXILON: Dex, don't provoke him.
DEXA: Where are we supposed to go?
NOCONA: I'm sure you'll find a home somewhere.
DEXA: This is our home. You have no right to make us go.
BRAX: Leave her alone!
NOCONA: Bring him here!
NEELIX: Don't touch him!
MINER: Are you going to stop me?
NEELIX: You've said what you've come to say. Now I suggest you leave.
NOCONA: You have three days to evacuate.
DEXA: You can see now why we're suspicious of outsiders,
OXILON: Thank you for protecting the boy, but I'm afraid your actions might make things worse.
DEXA: How could they get any worse?
OXILON: Fighting back has never done anything but cause us more trouble.
DEXA: And what has running away ever done for us?
OXILON: It's kept us alive.
DEXA: Maybe it's time we stayed and defended ourselves. Will you help us?
NEELIX: I agree with Oxilon. Fighting isn't the answer. But I'll try to help.
DEXA: How?
NEELIX: Well, we could talk to my captain. Maybe she can negotiate with the miners, get them to agree to let you stay.
OXILON: Your captain would be willing to do that?
NEELIX: The best thing would be for you to come to Voyager. Talk to her yourself.
BRAX: I want to go too.
DEXA: Shush, Brax.
NEELIX: Why don't you both come? I've seen your home. I'd like you to see mine.

[Bridge]
NEELIX: Commander Chakotay, I'd like you to meet Dexa And Brax.
CHAKOTAY: Welcome to the bridge.
NEELIX: And this is Ensign Kim.
BRAX: What's this?
NEELIX: This is an Engineering station, and over there is Tactical, and down there is the helm. And this is the Captain's chair.
BRAX: Which station is yours?
NEELIX: Well, actually, I don't have a specific, er, I'm more of a
KIM: Neelix does too many things to have just one station. He's our Ambassador, morale officer
CHAKOTAY: Trade negotiator. Without a doubt, he's the most versatile member of our crew.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: As you can see, our sensors are extremely precise. We can scan for life signs light years away.
NEELIX: That's how we found you.
SEVEN: I have something else that may interest you.
BRAX: What is it?
DEXA: Talax. You can scan that far away?
SEVEN: No, this image is from our database.
DEXA: It's as beautiful as I remember.
NEELIX: There's the Godo mountain range.
DEXA: And the Axiana Lakes. That was always one of my favorite places.
NEELIX: Mine too.
BRAX: Why don't we just go back to Talax? We could live there.
DEXA: It's still controlled by the Haakonians. They don't treat Talaxians very well. That's why we left.
BRAX: Maybe Neelix could go with us, and we could fight them. Take the planet back.
NEELIX: If tomorrow's negotiations go well, you won't have to go anywhere.

[Corridor]
NEELIX: Next stop, Engineering.
BRAX: The warp core.
NAOMI: Neelix.
NEELIX: Naomi! I'm sorry, I forgot all about our Kadis-kot game.
NAOMI: That's all right. I know you're busy. I just wanted to meet your friends.
NEELIX: Of course. Dexa, Brax, this is my goddaughter, Naomi.
NAOMI: Hey.
DEXA: You live on a beautiful ship.
NAOMI: Thanks. Maybe Brax would like to go to the holodeck.
NEELIX: That's a great idea.
NAOMI: Lieutenant Paris has a new program. Invaders from the Ninth Dimension.
NEELIX: Sounds scary.
NAOMI: Very.
BRAX: What's a holodeck?
NAOMI: Neelix is right. Might be too scary for you.
BRAX: I'm not afraid. Can I?
DEXA: You're lucky to have found these people. They obviously think a great deal of you.
NEELIX: The feeling's mutual.

[Guest quarters]
NEELIX: To the Axiana Lakes.
DEXA: It really is delicious.
NEELIX: I've been saving it for fifteen years. I wasn't sure I'd ever open it, but tonight seemed like the right occasion. Would you like some more taga cake?
DEXA: A little, please. I haven't had this in years.
NEELIX: I'm glad you like it. It's a family recipe.
DEXA: You're a good cook. I haven't seen Brax this happy since his father was alive.
NEELIX: How did he? I'm sorry. You probably don't want to talk about it.
DEXA: I don't mind. We'd settled on a planet call Phanos. There was a lot of unoccupied territory, but the government restricted us to a very small area.
NEELIX: Why?
DEXA: They said it was a quarantine to protect the population from alien diseases. But it was just an excuse. We were outsiders. They didn't want us mixing with their people. It wasn't long before we realized we didn't have enough land to grow what we needed to feed ourselves. Oxilon said we'd just have to conserve our resources. But my husband was tired of being told what to do, so he started farming outside the restricted zone.
NEELIX: They didn't like that.
DEXA: A security patrol confronted him. He told them he had to provide for his family, that he wasn't afraid of them. There was a fight. He was killed.
NEELIX: I'm sorry.
DEXA: After that, we came here. We thought we'd finally found a place where no one would bother us.
NEELIX: Maybe this time it'll be different.
DEXA: Maybe. But even if it isn't, thank you for trying.
NEELIX: I should get a good night's sleep if I'm going to be my best at the negotiations tomorrow.
DEXA: Neelix? It's been a wonderful day.

[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Isn't there enough to mine here, without destroying their home?
NOCONA: Their home contains more than thirty percent of the field's ore. Without that asteroid, the operation isn't worth the expense.
NEELIX: Would you be open to some kind of compensation?
NOCONA: All we want are the minerals.
OXILON: And you'd kill us to get them.
NEELIX: Wait. The Talaxians have found a way to produce a lot of geothermal energy. Maybe they could share it with you.
NOCONA: What do you mean, share?
NEELIX: You could convert it into fuel to power your ships.
NOCONA: The energy they generate isn't compatible with our technology.
JANEWAY: We'd be willing to help you make the modifications.
NOCONA: We have quotas to meet. We don't have time for that.
JANEWAY: Commander, the future of more than five hundred people is at stake here.

[Mess hall]
NAOMI: And once, there was a transporter accident. Neelix and Commander Tuvok got combined to make a completely different person.
BRAX: Really?
NAOMI: You don't think I could make up a story like that, do you?
BRAX: Hello, Neelix.
NAOMI: Do you want to play Kadis-kot?
NEELIX: Maybe later.
DEXA: I knew it wouldn't work.
NEELIX: We did get them to make a small concession. They've extended the deadline. You'll have enough time to dismantle your equipment.
DEXA: Thanks, but there's too much to take with us.
NEELIX: Captain Janeway has agreed to ferry all of you and your supplies to the nearest M class planet.
DEXA: Come on, Brax. We're going home.
BRAX: Why?
DEXA: We have to pack. Come on.
BRAX: You said you were going to help us.
DEXA: Brax.

[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: You wanted to see me.
NEELIX: I've detected five warp capable species within two light years of the planet where we're taking the Talaxians. I'm worried they might be vulnerable to attack.
TUVOK: They would be vulnerable anywhere.
NEELIX: I thought maybe you could help me devise some defense strategies for their new home.
TUVOK: Frankly, Mister Neelix, they don't seem inclined to defend themselves.
NEELIX: No, I suppose not.
TUVOK: But if they were going to make a stand, their emotional attachment to their present home might be an asset.
NEELIX: Are you saying they should stay?
TUVOK: I'm speaking hypothetically.
NEELIX: Hypothetically, if they wanted to defend the asteroid, how would they do it?
TUVOK: To begin with they would need to establish some kind of perimeter.
NEELIX: You mean shields?
TUVOK: Yes. The miners are monitoring the asteroid. If they detected the Talaxians erecting a shield, they would attempt to stop them.
NEELIX: I suppose so.
TUVOK: Your people would need competent leadership to defend against a pre-emptive attack.
NEELIX: If you had the captain's permission, would you be willing to provide that leadership?
TUVOK: Certainly not. It would be a violation of the Prime Directive. And even if it weren't, I don't believe that I am the person most qualified to assume that role.
NEELIX: You mean me?
TUVOK: I am merely speaking hypothetically.
NEELIX: I couldn't lead those people, Mister Tuvok. I'm not a fighter. I'm just a cook who sometimes imagines himself to be a diplomat.
TUVOK: On the contrary, Mister Neelix. You are much more than that. You are perhaps the most resourceful individual I have ever known.
NEELIX: I always thought you just tolerated me.
TUVOK: You do have some annoying habits. However, during your time on Voyager you've developed many valuable skills. Skills that would serve you well if you ever decided to assume a leadership role.
NEELIX: You really think so?
TUVOK: Let me be clear. I'm not urging you to do anything. I'm simply telling you that I believe that you are more than capable.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Going somewhere, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: Just to see my friends.
JANEWAY: Chakotay tells me you're using your own ship. Why not have Tom take you in the Flyer?
NEELIX: I didn't want to bother anyone.
JANEWAY: You wouldn't be planning anything foolish, would you?
NEELIX: Whatever I do, I promise it won't involve Voyager.
JANEWAY: That wasn't my question.
NEELIX: I know you have Prime Directive issues. But I'm not officially part of your crew, so I don't have the same constraints.
JANEWAY: You're as much a part of this crew as anyone else.
NEELIX: Are you ordering me not to go?
JANEWAY: That depends on what you're going to do.
NEELIX: It's up to the Talaxians.
JANEWAY: Safe journey, Mister Neelix.

[Public area]
NEELIX: I know from personal experience that you have forcefield emitters. We could use them to establish a shield grid. We'd need to deploy a series of them on the asteroid's surface, along bisecting diameters. Sixteen emitters should be enough to form a grid.
OXILON: Even if you're right, it'd take weeks to dig that many tunnels to the surface.
NEELIX: Commander Tuvok suggested that we could modify the emitters so they could be fired from torpedo tubes on your ship and planted in the surface.
OXILON: As soon as the miners realized what we were doing, they'd attack.
NEELIX: I could provide cover from my ship. But you're right, we'd have to work quickly.
DEXA: We could route power to the emitters directly from the core. They'd have a permanent energy supply.
NEELIX: Good idea.
OXILON: If we do what you're suggesting, people are going to be hurt.
NEELIX: This is your home. The miners have no right to force you out.
OXILON: I agree. But fighting?
NEELIX: I don't like it either but at some point you have to stand up for yourselves. How do you know there won't be someone else to terrorize you the next place you go?
DEXA: You know he's right.
NEELIX: No one has worked harder to build this place than you. Isn't it worth defending?

[Asteroid control area]
NEELIX: Wait for my comm. call. As soon as the last emitter's in place, start routing power to the grid.
DEXA: Understood.
NEELIX: You're scared, aren't you?
DEXA: You?
NEELIX: Terrified.
DEXA: Be careful.
NEELIX: I will.
OXILON (voiceover): Oxilon to Neelix. The emitters are loaded. We're ready.
NEELIX: I'll see you soon.

[Neelix's ship]
NEELIX: Two more and we're done.
OXILON (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Oxilon's ship]
OXILON: We're moving into position for the next one.

[Neelix's ship]
NEELIX: The miners' ship is on an intercept course. Evasive maneuvers.

[Oxilon's ship]
OXILON: They're targeting our shields.
NEELIX (voiceover): I'll deal with them.

[Neelix's ship]
NEELIX: Just focus on your job. All right, Mister Vulcan, let's see if you were right about me.

[Asteroid control center]
DEXA: Neelix, you have to hurry.
NEELIX (voiceover): Just one more emitter

[Neelix's ship]
NEELIX: And you can activate the shield.
NEELIX: Neelix to Oxilon.

[Oxilon's ship]
NEELIX (voiceover): My weapons are offline.
OXILON: We're not in position yet.
NEELIX (voiceover): You have to get there. They're going to launch another charge.

[Asteroid control center]
DEXA: Neelix, what are you doing?
NEELIX (voiceover): Don't worry about me.

[Neelix's ship]
NEELIX: Just get ready to bring the grid online.

[Delta Flyer]
JANEWAY: Delta Flyer to Neelix. Are you all right?

[Neelix's ship]
NEELIX: Fine, Captain. But you shouldn't be here.

[Delta Flyer]
NEELIX (voiceover): You're violating the Prime Directive.
JANEWAY: We're just helping a friend in distress.

[Asteroid control center]
DEXA: Dexa to Neelix. The shield's holding.

[Neelix's ship]
DEXA (voiceover): You did it.
NEELIX: We did it.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Captain's log, stardate 54868.6. Commander Nocona seems to have given up his attempts to penetrate the Talaxians' shield. Voyager's ready to get underway, but we're giving Mister Neelix time to say a difficult goodbye to his new friends.

[Dexa's quarters]
OXILON: We're grateful for everything you've done.
NEELIX: I'm just happy things worked out, and I'm glad that I could spend some time here with all of you. I'd better go.
BRAX: Stay here.
DEXA: He can't, Brax. He has responsibilities on Voyager.
NEELIX: I promise I'll stay in touch as long as I can.

[Wildman's quarters]
NAOMI: Come in.
NEELIX: Hi.
NAOMI: Neelix.
NEELIX: What are you working on?
NAOMI: A report on proto-humanoid cultures, for Commander Chakotay's paleontology class.
NEELIX: Need some help?
NAOMI: I'm almost finished.
NEELIX: Do you have time for a game of Kadis-kot?
NAOMI: I have to get up early.
NEELIX: I guess you'd better get to sleep then. Do you want me to tuck you in? Tell you a bedtime story?
NAOMI: You haven't done that in years.
NEELIX: Just think of all the stories you've missed.
NAOMI: Thanks, Neelix, but I can put myself to bed. I'm not a little girl anymore.

[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: I didn't think anyone else stayed up this late.
NEELIX: I wouldn't want you to have coffee all by yourself.
JANEWAY: Have a seat.
NEELIX: I've been thinking about something. It's a little hard to put into words, and I haven't really made a decision yet. And of course I would never ignore my responsibilities on Voyager.
JANEWAY: Of course not.
NEELIX: I take them very seriously.
JANEWAY: I know you do. I've been thinking about something, too. Maybe you could help me.
NEELIX: I'd be happy to.
JANEWAY: It's an idea I'd need to talk to Starfleet Command about.
NEELIX: It must be important.
JANEWAY: It is. Now that we've established two way communication with Earth, it seems to me Starfleet could use a permanent ambassador in the Delta Quadrant. This ambassador would have to stay in frequent contact with Voyager.
NEELIX: Certainly.
JANEWAY: It would be difficult for me to run this ship without you, Neelix. But that might be a sacrifice I'd be willing to make for the greater good of Starfleet. Of course, the assignment would be entirely voluntary. You wouldn't be interested, would you?

[Outside the shuttlebay]
JANEWAY: Goodbye. And good luck, Ambassador.
TUVOK: Mister Neelix.
TUVOK: Live long, and prosper.

[Delta Flyer]
EMH: Questa o quella per me pari sono a quant'altre d'intorno mi vedo, del mio core l'impero non cedo meglio ad una che ad altre belta. La costoro avvenenza e qual dono di che ilfato ne infiora la vita. S'oggi questa mi torna gradita, forse un'altra, forse un'altra.
EMH: Captain. Computer, pause music. I didn't wake you, did I?
JANEWAY: That's all right, Doctor. Fifteen minutes of sleep is really all I need. Coffee, black. Maybe you should pay a little more attention to flying and a little less to singing.
EMH: As a hologram, I can handle a variety of tasks at once. In addition to piloting the Flyer, I'm writing a paper on the physiological stresses of long duration space flight, and taking holo-images of this Mutara class nebula.
JANEWAY: With a hologram on board, who needs a crew?
EMH: I'd never admit this to anyone else, but there was a time when I would have given anything to be flesh and blood. But I've come to realize that being a hologram is far superior.
JANEWAY: Really?
EMH: No offense. I'll always enjoy the company of organics. In fact, I'm delighted you were able to attend this medical symposium with me. It's been a pleasure spending time with you. Actually, I was hoping we might do this sort of thing more often.
EMH: Hmm. We're passing through a subspace eddy.
JANEWAY: It could be the wake of another ship.
EMH: No, there's nothing on sensors. It's probably just the gravimetric shear from the nebula.
JANEWAY: Maybe I should take the controls.
EMH: Sit down and relax, Captain. You've got a hologram at the helm.

[Engineering]
TORRES: The plasma surges have to be coming from one of these relays. Try realigning the deuterium manifolds.
PARIS (voiceover): Paris to Torres.
TORRES: Go ahead.
PARIS (voiceover): Can you pull yourself away from engineering for a few minutes? I've got a shuttle down here with faulty deflector array.
TORRES: I'm a little busy right now.
PARIS (voiceover): It's kind of urgent.

[Shuttlecraft]
TORRES: What's this?
PARIS: Well, I thought you'd enjoy a romantic lunch under the glow of a red giant.
TORRES: Oh, you replicated potato salad.
PARIS: With extra paprika, just the way you like it.
TORRES: This is so sweet. But I can't.
PARIS: Sure you can. I've already cleared it with Chakotay.
TORRES: I told the captain I'd have the dilithium matrix recalibrated before she got back.
PARIS: You know, this might be our last chance to be alone for the next eighteen years.
TORRES: I will make some time before the baby comes, I promise. Oh, I've got to get back.

[Bridge]
KIM: Report.
AYALA: There's some kind of pulse being directed at our transceiver array. It's coming from the Delta Flyer.
KIM: Hail them.
AYALA: No response.
KIM: Looks like they've encoded the pulse with a comm. signal.
KIM: Captain.
JANEWAY (screen): Sorry about the image, Ensign. Our comm. system's been damaged. The only way I could send you a signal was through the main deflector.
KIM: Are you and the Doctor all right?
JANEWAY (screen): We're fine. Tell Commander Chakotay to meet me in my ready room as soon as we've docked. Janeway out.

[Ready room]
CHAKOTAY: Harry tells me the Flyer took some damage.
JANEWAY: That's an understatement. We almost didn't make it back in one piece. They're called the R'Kaal. Their technology is decades ahead of ours. Transphasic warp drive, multi-spectral cloaking systems. They could destroy this ship before our sensors knew they were there.
CHAKOTAY: They sound like people we should avoid.
JANEWAY: I wish that were possible. They control thousands of parsecs from here to the edge of the Beta Quadrant. They're ecological extremists. They believe conventional warp engines damage subspace, so they've outlawed warp travel through their territory.
CHAKOTAY: Then we should reverse course and find a way around.
JANEWAY: That's the problem. We've already been in their space for three weeks without knowing it.
CHAKOTAY: You'd think they'd mark their borders a little more clearly.
JANEWAY: As punishment, their law demands that our ship be dismantled.
CHAKOTAY: Obviously we're not going to let that happen.
JANEWAY: I spent three hours explaining our situation to their Supreme Archon, a thoroughly unpleasant man. I convinced him to spare Voyager, but at a price. We're going to rendezvous with their armada and surrender our warp core at a class M planet where they've agreed to let us settle.
CHAKOTAY: Settle?
JANEWAY: I didn't make this decision lightly, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: We have to bring the senior staff in on this. We can find a way to evade their ships, or adapt our sensors to their cloaking technology.
JANEWAY: We could try that, and we might make it past their armada, but we could lose a lot of people in the process. Maybe the entire ship.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, there's got to be another way.
JANEWAY: I'm tired, Chakotay. Tired of casualty reports, of continually risking my people on the slim chance that we'll make it home in one piece.
CHAKOTAY: We've found our way out of worse situations.
JANEWAY: Set a course.
CHAKOTAY: What am I supposed to tell the crew?
JANEWAY: For now, I'd like to keep this between us.
CHAKOTAY: It's not like you to keep your people in the dark
JANEWAY: I'll make an announcement when the time is right. Dismissed.

[Engineering]
TORRES: Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry to interrupt, but I could use your input on a hypothetical scenario.
TORRES: Of course.
JANEWAY: If we were to eject the core, could it be towed safely at warp?
TORRES: In theory. But a tractor beam might destabilize the containment field. You'd be risking a breach.
JANEWAY: Could you compensate for that?
TORRES: You could configure the tractor emitters to generate a resonance pulse. That should stabilize the field.
JANEWAY: Can you make those modifications to the Delta Flyer's tractor emitters?
TORRES: I suppose.
JANEWAY: How long would it take?
TORRES: Er, a few hours.
JANEWAY: Get started.
TORRES: I thought this was a hypothetical scenario.
JANEWAY: We should be prepared, just in case.
TORRES: In case of what?
JANEWAY: Let me know as soon as you're finished.
TORRES: Torres to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Go ahead.
TORRES: Have you got a minute?

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna tells me you ordered some modifications to the Flyer.
JANEWAY: That's right.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe I misunderstood. I thought the plan was to hand over the core when we reached the planet. Are we taking it somewhere else?
JANEWAY: I heard you the first time.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: You've already made your concerns clear, Commander, but there's been a slight change of plans.
CHAKOTAY: Were you going to tell me? Kathryn, what's going on?
JANEWAY: I don't feel well. I've got a headache. I'm going to my quarters and I'd prefer not to be disturbed. You have the bridge.
JANEWAY: Not now.
TUVOK: I beg your pardon, Captain?
JANEWAY: Carry on, Commander.

[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to the Doctor.
EMH (voiceover): Go ahead, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Report to Sickbay immediately.
CHAKOTAY: Something wrong with the turbolifts?
EMH: You did say immediately. How can I help you?
CHAKOTAY: I'm concerned about the Captain. She doesn't seem to be feeling well.
EMH: What's wrong?
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure. She went to her quarters with a headache.
EMH: I'll bring her an analgesic.
CHAKOTAY: I was wondering if this could be related to your encounter with the aliens.
EMH: You think they harmed her?
CHAKOTAY: You tell me. What did they do to her?
EMH: I'm not sure, exactly. The aliens took my program offline as soon as they boarded the Flyer. The captain reactivated me a few hours later and told me she'd been interrogated. Naturally, I examined her to make sure she was all right.
CHAKOTAY: Did you find anything unusual?
EMH: I suppose I'm violating doctor-patient confidentiality by telling you this but, she was fine.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like you to give her a more thorough examination.
EMH: Gladly. But you know how she feels about physicals.
CHAKOTAY: You can be very persuasive, Doctor. Contact me as soon as you're done.
EMH: Aye, sir.

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: Anything interesting on sensors this morning?
SEVEN: Nothing extraordinary. A red giant and two G type stars, a Golorian trading vessel bearing one five six mark four.
CHAKOTAY: If there were a fleet of cloaked ships in the vicinity, could you devise a way to detect them?
SEVEN: A cloaked fleet would generate significant subspace distortions. Why do you ask?
KIM (voiceover): Commander, we're receiving a transmission.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM (voiceover): I'm having trouble pinpointing it. Should I notify the captain?
CHAKOTAY: No, she didn't want to be disturbed. Route the call here.
CHAKOTAY: I'm Commander Chakotay of the starship Voyager.
LOTH (screen): This is Supreme Archon Loth of the R'Kaal Imperium. Why haven't you ejected your warp core as your captain agreed?
CHAKOTAY: We're en route to the planet you specified. We can't jettison the core until we get there.
LOTH (screen): If we don't receive the core within ten hours, my armada will destroy your ship. This is your only warning.
CHAKOTAY: Work with Harry. I want to know the source of that transmission.
SEVEN: Understood.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Ah, Commander. You'll be relieved to know I've given the captain a clean bill of health.
CHAKOTAY: Did you run a neurological scan?
EMH: Mmm hmm. Her brain activity and cognitive functions are completely normal. As far as I can tell she's perfectly fit, physically and mentally.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, Doctor.

[Outside Janeway's quarters]
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to the captain. Computer, locate Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Computer, belay that. My quarters, now.

[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Really, Chakotay. Sending the Doctor to check up on me.
CHAKOTAY: I'm concerned.
JANEWAY: Then why didn't you come to me directly? I thought we trusted each other.
CHAKOTAY: So did I. Something happened on that away mission that you're not telling me.
JANEWAY: I've told you everything you need to know.
CHAKOTAY: You've consulted me on every major decision over the last seven years, except this one. Why?
JANEWAY: There are some decisions a captain has to make on her own.
CHAKOTAY: I understand that, but every instinct tells me what you're doing is wrong. Don't you remember what happened on Lesik Prime?
JANEWAY: I don't see how that's relevant.
CHAKOTAY: I think you do. Fifteen years ago, you were the lieutenant who was kept in the dark. If you hadn't questioned your captain's orders, the entire away team would have been lost.
JANEWAY: This situation's entirely different.
CHAKOTAY: You never told me that story. I made it up. Chakotay to Tuvok.
JANEWAY: I've erected a dampening field around these quarters. I'm sorry, Commander.

[Morgue]
JANEWAY: Computer, secure the doors and establish a level five dampening field around the morgue.

[Doctor's office]
JANEWAY: I can't do my job with the two of you constantly talking in my head.
EMH: No. I'm not doing anything else until I speak with the captain. Fine. What's your encryption frequency?

[Overlooker's ship]
EMH (screen): Captain, are you all right?
JANEWAY: Doctor, listen to me. Under no circumstances are you to eject the warp core.
EMH (screen): If I don't do what they ask, they'll kill you.
JANEWAY: I'm giving you a direct order. Stop what you're doing.
EMH (screen): I'm sorry, Captain. I can't obey that order.
JANEWAY: Doctor, I want you to go to the bridge right now and alert Commander Tuvok.
ZET: Put her behind the forcefield.
ZET: We have another assignment for you. I've been going over the schematics of your vessel, and I'm intrigued by this bio-neural circuitry. I want you to bring us a series of these gel packs.
EMH (screen): The gel packs are integrated into the ship's systems. I can't just remove them without someone noticing.
ZET: You've proven yourself to be very resourceful, Doctor. You'll find a way. Remember, we're monitoring your perceptual subroutines. We can see and hear everything.

[Doctor's office]
TUVOK (voiceover): Tuvok to Chakotay.
ZET (screen): You know what will happen to her if you alert your crew.
EMH: Go ahead.

[Delta Flyer]
TUVOK: Are you all right, Commander?

[Sickbay]
EMH: Just a scratchy throat. The Doctor's treating me now.

[Delta Flyer]
TUVOK: Could you come to the Shuttlebay when you're finished?

[Sickbay]
EMH: I'll be right there. Chakotay out. Computer, access the holodeck database and locate Commander Chakotay's holographic template. Download the physical parameters into my program.

[Delta Flyer]
EMH-CHAKOTAY: You wanted to see me?
TUVOK: I've completed the diagnostic as you requested. The Flyer's comm. system is functioning normally.
EMH-CHAKOTAY: You find that unusual?
TUVOK: The Captain did report that it was damaged

[Overlooker's ship]
TUVOK (voiceover): During the attack by the R'Kaal.
EMH-CHAKOTAY (voiceover): I'll have a talk with her. Did you find anything else out of the ordinary?
TUVOK (voiceover): No.
ZET: Get out of there before you arouse suspicion.

[Delta Flyer]
EMH-CHAKOTAY: I'll be on the bridge if you need me.

[Overlooker's ship]
NAR: You're doing a wonderful job, Doctor. I'm just giving him a little encouragement.
ZET: That's why I'm in command.
NAR: If all goes well, we should have the warp core in less than six hours. He's making excellent progress.
JANEWAY: That's exactly what he wants you to believe.
ZET: What do you mean?
JANEWAY: Did you really think you could outsmart a hologram?
NAR: Everything appears to be normal.
JANEWAY: How do you know you're not looking at a holographic projection? The Doctor isn't just a physician. His Emergency Command subroutines contain thousands of tactical scenarios. I wouldn't be surprised if Voyager was already on its way here. You do have an option. Leave me behind in an escape pod and I'll forget any of this ever happened.
NAR: Maybe we should let her go.
ZET: Are you delusional? It took months to plan this. We've already found a buyer for the warp core. Now you want to abandon everything?
NAR: It's better than being sent to a rehabilitation center.
ZET: We made our choice when we stole this vessel. I am not going back to the Hierarchy, and neither are you. She's just trying to trick you. A month from now, we'll be soaking in the mud baths of Eblar Prime. Trust me.

[Janeway's quarters]
EMH: Janeway to Torres.
TORRES (voiceover): Torres here.
EMH: I'm having a little trouble with my replicator again. Can you take a look at it?

[Engineering]
TORRES: I'm still working on those modifications you asked for. I'll send somebody else.

[Janeway's quarters]
EMH: I'd consider it a personal favor if you'd do it yourself, Lieutenant.
TORRES (voiceover): I'll be there in five minutes.
EMH: Thank you. Janeway out. Computer, access Lieutenant Torres' holographic template and download the physical parameters into my program.
EMH-TORRES: Computer, access medical file Torres Three and update her holographic template.

[Engineering]
VORIK: Did you forget something, Lieutenant?
EMH-TORRES: I did, actually. Where do we keep the spare gel packs?
VORIK: Locker gamma five.
EMH-TORRES: Of course. Gamma five.
VORIK: On the upper level.
EMH-TORRES: I know where it is, Ensign.

[Engineering upper level]
PARIS: You left me no choice.
EMH-TORRES: Lieutenant.
PARIS: Oh? Are we calling each other by our rank now?
EMH-TORRES: Er, you startled me.
PARIS: Oh, sorry. Well, I thought since you didn't have time for lunch under the stars, maybe you'd settle for the glow of the warp core.
EMH-TORRES: How thoughtful, but I'm not hungry.
PARIS: Well, I'm sure the baby is famished.
EMH-TORRES: A pregnant woman shouldn't eat this kind of food. Do you want to give me an arterial occlusion?
PARIS: One drumstick isn't going to kill you. Besides, I won't tell the Doctor if you won't.
EMH-TORRES: You know, this all looks so delicious. Why don't we save it for a romantic dinner this evening?
PARIS: All right, nineteen hours. But if you're not there, I'm sending security after you.
EMH-TORRES: I'll be there. Sweetheart.
PARIS: Sweetheart? Well, aren't you getting affectionate in your third trimester.
PARIS: I'll see you later.
KIM (voiceover): Kim to Chakotay. Can you come to Astrometrics?
EMH-TORRES: Harry, I'll be right there. Chakotay out.

[Astrometrics lab]
KIM: The transmission was encoded with a false subspace signature.
SEVEN: The signal didn't originate on another vessel. It came from inside Voyager.
KIM: We traced it to holodeck two.
EMH-CHAKOTAY: Do you know who sent it?
KIM: I'm on my way to check the access logs.
EMH-CHAKOTAY: I'll go with you.

[Holodeck]
KIM: Whoever sent this transmission knew how to cover his tracks. The holodeck logs have been erased.
EMH-CHAKOTAY: Doesn't look like we'll get any answers here.
KIM: I might be able to find some residual phototonic displacement. There we go. I think I can clarify the image with a recursive algorithm.
KIM: Our alien's a hologram. The question is, who programmed him?
EMH-CHAKOTAY: Good work, Ensign. I'll take it from here.
KIM: Wait a minute. I'm picking up two holographic signatures. It looks like a second image was superimposed over an existing template. I'll see if I can isolate the first image.

[Overlooker's ship]
ZET: Doctor, what are you doing?
EMH (voiceover): If you don't mind

[Doctor's office]
EMH: I've had a stressful day.

[Overlooker's ship]
EMH (voiceover): I'm extremely busy, Commander.
TUVOK (screen): This will only take a moment. I've been reviewing the communication logs. There's a discrepancy I was hoping you could explain.

[Doctor's office]
TUVOK: At the precise moment the Flyer transmitted a deflector pulse, you apparently accessed Voyager's holographic database.
EMH: I haven't the faintest idea what you're talking about.

[Sickbay]
TUVOK: Your access code was used to download the captain's physical parameters.
EMH: Exactly what are you insinuating, Commander?
TUVOK: Perhaps we should have a word with the captain.
EMH: Fine.
TUVOK: Computer, deactivate the EMH.
COMPUTER: EMH protocols are offline.
TUVOK: Security to Sickbay. Remain where you are.
EMH: You haven't forgotten I'm a hologram, have you?
TUVOK: If necessary, I'll disable all of your holo-emitters.

[Doctor's office]
EMH: Computer, transfer the EMH to the mobile emitter.
TUVOK: All hands, Red Alert. Security teams, apprehend the Doctor.

[Outside Holodeck]
TUVOK: Computer, open the holodeck doors.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Access to the holodeck has been restricted.
TUVOK: Security override, Tuvok sigma four.

[Holodeck]
TUVOK: Computer, end program.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Holodeck controls are offline.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Engineering. Shut down power

[Engineering]
TUVOK (voiceover): To Holodeck two.
TORRES: It looks like the Doctor's rerouted the power relays. It'll take a minute to bypass them.

[Holodeck]
TUVOK: Doctor, I've reconfigured my phaser to disrupt your holo-matrix. Surrender yourself now.
TUVOK: Tuvok to bridge.

[Bridge]
TUVOK (voiceover): Can you locate the Doctor on the internal sensors?
PARIS: I'm not reading him. He must've masked his signature somehow.
TUVOK (voiceover): Try scanning for the polydeutonic alloy in his emitter. Shut down all

[Holodeck]
TUVOK: Turbolifts and transporters.
PARIS (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Engineering]
EMH-CHAKOTAY: Get your people out of here. The core's about to breach.
TORRES: I'm not detecting an overload.
EMH-CHAKOTAY: You're getting false readings. The Doctor's reprogrammed your sensors.
TORRES: All right, everybody out. Now! Move it!
EMH-CHAKOTAY: You too, B'Elanna.
TORRES: I might be able to stabilize the containment field.
EMH-CHAKOTAY: You're not putting your baby in danger. Go!
TORRES: You'd better be right behind me.
PARIS: Paris to Torres. I'm picking up the Doctor's emitter in your section.
TORRES: Where?
PARIS: Right next to the warp core.
EMH-CHAKOTAY: Computer, activate Emergency Command Hologram.
COMPUTER: All command codes have been transferred to the ECH.
EMH: Prepare to eject the warp core. Authorization ECH omega four two.
TORRES: Doctor, don't do this.
COMPUTER: Warp ejection system enabled.
EMH: Computer, eject the core.
EMH: Computer, lock on to my mobile emitter and transport me to the Delta Flyer.
COMPUTER: Transporters are offline.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Tuvok, we just lost main power

[Corridor]
PARIS (voiceover): And internal sensors are down.
TUVOK: The Doctor has entered Jefferies tube one one alpha. Send a security team to the shuttlebay.
TUVOK: Lieutenant?
EMH-TORRES: I think the Doctor's heading for the escape pods.
EMH-TORRES: You wouldn't shoot a pregnant woman, would you?
TUVOK: Come with me, Doctor.

[Bridge]
PARIS: Tuvok, someone's launching the Flyer.

[Corridor]
PARIS (voiceover): Tuvok!

[Overlooker's ship]
NAR: Ow!
JANEWAY: You might try disconnecting the phase discriminator.
NAR: Ha! I've rebuilt dozens of these units, but I've never seen this configuration before. Do you know how I can stabilize the ion flow?
JANEWAY: That looks like the charge inverter.
NAR: Thank you.
JANEWAY: You're welcome. Your ship must need a lot of replacement parts.
NAR: Oh, those aren't for this ship. I've been collecting and repairing spare components for years. This is from an old impulse drive. Would you believe I found it sitting in a waste depository? I'll be able to find a buyer now that it's working.
JANEWAY: These parts could be worth a small fortune.
NAR: That's exactly what I think. I'm going to use my quarter of the profits to establish an outpost specializing in obsolete engine components. I'm certain there's a demand for them.
JANEWAY: My Chief Engineer is always looking for spare parts. She might be interested in acquiring your entire inventory.
ZET: Captain. Tut, tut, tut. You're not trying to take advantage of my subordinate, are you? No one's ever going to buy this junk. It's almost as useless as you. There's a ship approaching.

[Delta Flyer]
EMH: This is the Delta Flyer. I've got the warp core

[Overlooker's ship]
EMH (voiceover): But you're not getting it until you release the captain.

[Delta Flyer]
EMH: Are you insane? You almost destabilized the core. Both of our ships would've been destroyed!

[Overlooker's ship]
ZET: This isn't a negotiation. Release your tractor beam, now.

[Delta Flyer]
EMH: All right.
NAR: It's in the cargo hold.
ZET: Lower your shields and we'll beam your captain to you.

[Delta Flyer]
EMH: Ready.

[Overlooker's ship]
EMH: We had an agreement!
ZET: To spare your captain. As you can see, she's still alive.
JANEWAY: Let the Doctor go. I'm the more valuable hostage.
ZET: Actually, you're not. We'll leave you in the Vinry system. The inhabitants are mostly harmless. The Doctor will be working for us now.
EMH: I'll do no such thing.
ZET: I'm sure you'll feel differently after I make a few adjustments to your program.
NAR: I had no idea he was going to do this. I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: I hope you realize you've stranded Voyager in the Delta Quadrant.
EMH: What did you expect me to do, let them kill you?
JANEWAY: I expected you to follow my orders.
EMH: You might as well have been ordering me to put a phaser to your head. Voyager can survive without a warp core, but not without a captain.
JANEWAY: Now it doesn't have either. Chief Tactical Officer's log, stardate 54890.7. With internal sensors offline, I've had to order a section by section search for our missing crew members. Until main power is restored, Voyager remains immobilized and defenseless.

[Morgue]
PARIS: They're just unconscious. Paris to Tuvok. I found them.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: It is logical to assume the Captain never returned from the away mission.
CHAKOTAY: Do you have any idea where the Flyer is?
TUVOK: The Doctor masked his ion trail.
TORRES (voiceover): Engineering to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.

[Engineering]
TORRES: We're ready to restart the impulse reactors.
CHAKOTAY (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Corridor]
TUVOK: It's playing on every comm. channel on the ship.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, pause music.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
CHAKOTAY: Didn't the Doctor play this at his recital last month?
TUVOK: Yes. And as I recall, he performed the piece flawlessly.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe the recording was damaged by the power loss.
TUVOK: Or perhaps the Doctor altered the music deliberately.
CHAKOTAY: Why would he do that?

[Briefing room]
SEVEN: I performed a Fourier analysis on the recording. The harmonics have been modified.
KIM: It could be a comm. frequency.
SEVEN: Unlikely. There's no carrier wave.
PARIS: I could be wrong but, it looks like a warp signature.
KIM: The power utilization curve would be about right.
CHAKOTAY: Try scanning for it.
SEVEN: I'm detecting a matching signature. Distance, six point seven light years.
TUVOK: We can't follow them at impulse.
CHAKOTAY: You and Tom take a shuttle.

[Overlooker's ship]
EMH: What are you doing?
JANEWAY: If I can amplify your matrix, I might be able to disrupt the forcefield.
EMH: I'm sorry I put us in this position, Captain.
JANEWAY: You said you wanted us to spend more time together.
EMH: This isn't what I had in mind. Maybe, if we get back to the ship, we could try socializing a little more.
JANEWAY: This really isn't the place to be talking about this. Besides, I don't do a lot of socializing.
EMH: You have meals with Commander Chakotay, and you play Velocity with Seven.
JANEWAY: We're going to have to discuss this later.
NAR: I need to upload your first assignment.
EMH: You want me to infiltrate the Hierarchy's surveillance complex?
ZET: The data stored there is worth a hundred warp cores.
EMH: How do you expect me to get past the security perimeter?
ZET: I'm glad you asked.
EMH-OVERLOOKER: I trust this won't be permanent.
NAR: I've given you the rank of a Class One Overseer. You'll be able to walk into Central Command without anyone noticing. I've also uploaded several other holographic templates you might find useful.
JANEWAY: What's wrong?
NAR: I'm not certain.
ZET: The compression algorithms are breaking down.
NAR: I told you his program couldn't handle that much data.
EMH-TORRES-OVERLOOKER: What have you done to me?

[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: I'm detecting a human lifesign aboard. And a holographic signature.
TUVOK: The vessel's weapons are polaron-based, and they have auto-regenerative shielding.
PARIS: We still have the element of surprise.

[Overlooker's ship]
JANEWAY: If you don't get him back to Voyager his matrix will be permanently damaged.
EMH-ALIEN: Please do something.
NAR: He won't be any use to us if he decompiles.
NAR: Someone's boarded the Delta Flyer. They're moving away.
ZET: Fire at both vessels.

[Shuttlecraft]
TUVOK: Now, Mister Paris.

[Overlooker's ship]
NAR: The shield generator isn't going to last. If we give them what they want, maybe they'll leave.
ZET: Prepare to jettison their warp core.
NAR: What are you doing?
ZET: Arming a torpedo. If we detonate their core the blast wave should give us enough time to escape.
NAR: That would kill them.
EMH-ALIEN: Captain, get down!

[Shuttlecraft]
TUVOK: Lieutenant, lock a tractor beam onto the core and get it back to Voyager.
PARIS (voiceover): Acknowledged.

[Overlooker's ship]
ZET: Nar, get this hologram off me.
NAR: Guess this wasn't so useless after all.
NAR: Are you still interested in acquiring my inventory?

[Holodeck]
TORRES: Computer, transfer the EMH back into the holodeck buffer.
JANEWAY: Can you stabilize his matrix?
SEVEN: Not until we purge the excess subroutines.
TORRES: There's more than a thousand teraquads of new data in here.
PARIS: How is he?
JANEWAY: We're not sure yet.
EMH: Captain, if I don't survive, I need you to do something for me.
JANEWAY: You're going to be all right.
EMH: If I'm not, when you reach Earth I want you to donate my emitter to the Daystrom Institute. They may be able to replicate it someday so that other holograms can know the freedom I've enjoyed. I've had something on my conscience for a long time. After I was first activated, I kept a record of what I considered to be your most questionable command decisions. It's in my personal database. I hope you'll delete the file without reading it. Mister Tuvok, I violated the most sacred trust between a physician and his patient. I told Mister Neelix about the cutaneous eruption you developed on your. That was indiscreet. I hope you can forgive me. Ensign, at your recital last month, I told Lieutenant Torres that your saxophone playing reminded me of a wounded targ. I should've put it more delicately. I'm sorry. Seven.
SEVEN: You should remain still.
EMH: You have no idea how difficult it's been, hiding my true feelings all these years, averting my eyes during your regular maintenance exams.
EMH: I know you could never have the same feelings for me but I want you to know the truth. I love you, Seven.
SEVEN: Your cognitive algorithms are malfunctioning.
EMH: Goodbye, my friends. Speak well of me.
JANEWAY: Is he
TORRES: No, I've got him.
EMH: What happened?
TORRES: I deleted the extraneous subroutines.
EMH: I'm not going to decompile?
JANEWAY: You'll probably outlive us all.
PARIS: Doc, anything else you'd like to confess? Captain's log, stardate 54912.4. Lieutenant Torres has restored our warp drive in less than a week. The Doctor's dignity, however, might take a little longer. He hasn't left Sickbay once since he returned to the ship.

[Medical lab]
EMH: Captain, do you, do you need medical attention?
JANEWAY: No. You've been keeping to yourself lately. Your friends are worried about you.
EMH: After my deathbed confession, I wasn't sure I had any friends left. I overstepped my bounds in documenting your command decisions. It happened a long time ago, before I considered myself to be a part of your crew.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm not here to make you grovel. I'm here to punish you for your insubordinate behavior.
EMH: I understand.
JANEWAY: You're hereby denied the use of your mobile emitter for six days. Since you haven't left Sickbay for a week, we'll call it time served.
EMH: I appreciate the gesture, Captain, but I've got a lot of work to catch up on.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry to hear that. I was hoping you might be free for a cup of coffee on the holodeck. I know a little sidewalk café in Buenos Aires. You said you wanted us to socialize more.
EMH: I suppose Mister Paris can finish this.
JANEWAY: Now, when you're on the holodeck with the captain, there are two rules you have to follow.
EMH: I understand.
JANEWAY: First, leave your rank at the door.
EMH: Not a problem. The second?
JANEWAY: No opera.

[2404 - San Francisco - Admiral Janeway's Apartment - night]
NEWSREADER (voiceover): These should be familiar images to everyone who remembers the USS Voyager's triumphant return to Earth after twenty three years in the Delta Quadrant. Voyager captivated the hearts and minds of people throughout the Federation, so it seems fitting that on this, the tenth anniversary of their return, we take a moment to recall the sacrifices made by the crew. Corruption charges were brought today against a Ferengi
JANEWAY: Computer, end display.

[Admiral Janeway's Apartment - party]
KIM: Hello.
SABRINA: What's your name?
KIM: Harry. What's yours?
SABRINA: Sabrina.
KIM: Naomi's daughter?
SABRINA: Ah ha.
KIM: You've gotten so big.
SABRINA: I don't remember you.
KIM: I haven't come to one of these reunions in four years.
SABRINA: Why?
KIM: I've been on a deep space assignment.
SABRINA: For four years?
KIM: Compared to how long I was on Voyager, it seemed like a long weekend. Can you find your mother for me?
SABRINA: Ah ha.
KIM: I'd like to say hi.
JANEWAY: Oops. Here you are, Captain.
KIM: Thank you, Admiral. I haven't seen her since she was a baby.
JANEWAY: It's amazing how fast you've all grown.
KIM: How's Tuvok?
JANEWAY: Not well.
KIM: I thought maybe I'd go see him tomorrow.
JANEWAY: Oh, that would be nice.
KIM: I'm sorry I missed the funeral. I should have been there.
JANEWAY: You were on a mission. Everyone understood. It's so good to see you, Harry.
PARIS: Doc!
EMH: Mister Paris. Voyager's pilot, medic, and occasional thorn in my side. Where have you been hiding yourself?
PARIS: I've been busy.
EMH: New holonovel?
PARIS: I'll make sure to get your input before I send it off to my publisher. Aren't you going to introduce me to your date?
EMH: Mister Paris meet Lana, my blushing bride.
PARIS: You're married?
LANA: Tomorrow is our two week anniversary.
PARIS: Well, congratulations. My invitation must have gotten lost in subspace..
EMH: Oh, you should be flattered. We took a page from your book and eloped.
LANA: Joe has a real flair for romantic gestures.
PARIS: Joe?
EMH: I decided I couldn't get married without a name.
PARIS: It took you thirty three years to come up with Joe?
EMH: It was Lana's grandfather's name.
PARIS: Oh. Oh, so you're not a
LANA: A hologram? No.
EMH: Frankly, Mister Paris, I'm surprised you'd even ask. I thought we were beyond those sorts of distinctions.
PARIS: Are you kidding? I think it's great. I'm in a mixed marriage myself, remember?
EMH: Speaking of which, where is that wife of yours?
TORRES: The High Council had a lot of questions.
JANEWAY: What did you tell them?
TORRES: The truth, with a Klingon twist. I told them that my beloved former captain, who had saved my life many times in glorious battle, would be honored to submit Korath's House for consideration.
JANEWAY: Do you think it will work?
TORRES: I'm just the Federation liaison, but I'd like to think I have some influence. You still haven't told me why you're trying to help Korath.
JANEWAY: He's an old friend.
TORRES: Would this old friend have anything to do with the mission that you sent my daughter on?
JANEWAY: Sorry, B'Elanna, but you know I can't talk about that.
TORRES: Couldn't you at least have waited until after the reunion? She really wanted to be here.
JANEWAY: She'll be home soon, I promise.
BARCLAY: May I have everyone's attention, please. Ten years ago tonight, this crew returned home from the longest away mission in Starfleet's history. Twenty three years together made you a family, one I'm proud to have been adopted by. Let's raise our glasses to the journey.
ALL: To the journey.
JANEWAY: And to those who aren't here to celebrate it with us.

[Starfleet classroom]
BARCLAY: Ladies and gentlemen, meet the Borg.
BARCLAY: Over the course of this term, you're going to become intimately familiar with the Collective. You'll learn about the assimilation process, the Borg hierarchy, and the psychology of the hive mind. And when it comes to your performance in this class, my expectations are going to be no different than the Borg Queen herself. Perfection. This semester, we are very fortunate to have a special guest lecturer. The woman who literally wrote the book on the Borg. Admiral Kathryn Janeway.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Commander. I'm glad to be here. A question already, cadet?
CADET: I suppose it could wait until after class, Admiral.
JANEWAY: As they say in the Temporal Mechanics Department, there's no time like the present.
CADET: In the year 2377, you aided the Borg resistance movement known as Unimatrix Zero.
BARCLAY: Sounds like someone's been reading ahead.
JANEWAY: I thought you had a question, Cadet.
CADET: Yes, ma'am. When you informed the Queen that you were going to liberate thousands of her drones, could you describe the look on her face?
FEMALE CADET: Admiral? Some of us were talking before class and we were curious. How extensive was Seven of Nine's involvement with Unimatrix Zero?
JANEWAY: I'd, er, prefer not to discuss Seven of Nine.
FEMALE CADET: Yes, ma'am. Sorry.
JANEWAY: Excuse me.
BARCLAY: Okay, er, who can tell me a little about nanotechnology?

[Admiral Janeway's office]
MIRAL (screen): I'm sorry to pull you out of class, Admiral.
JANEWAY: Did you see it?
MIRAL (screen): Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: And?
MIRAL (screen): It works.
JANEWAY: Korath has agreed to the exchange?
MIRAL (screen): Yes.
JANEWAY: But?
MIRAL (screen): He's insisting on handing it over to you personally.
JANEWAY: I'll be there as soon as I can. Good work, Ensign Paris.

[Starfleet Medical - Tuvok's room]
JANEWAY: Hello, Tuvok.
TUVOK: The light.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm sorry.
TUVOK: I know you.
JANEWAY: That's right. I'm your friend, Kathryn Janeway, remember?
TUVOK: You're an impostor.
JANEWAY: No, Tuvok. It's me.
TUVOK: Admiral Janeway visits on Sunday. Today is Thursday. Logic dictates that you are not who you claim to be.
JANEWAY: How are you?
TUVOK: I am close to completing my work.
JANEWAY: I'm glad to hear it.
TUVOK: It is difficult with so many interruptions.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. Would you like me to leave?
TUVOK: You may stay.
JANEWAY: Tuvok, there's something I need to tell you. It's very important. I'm going away and I may not see you again. Commander Barclay and the Doctor will continue to visit. They'll bring you anything you need.
TUVOK: The Doctor comes on Wednesdays. Commander Barclay's visits are erratic.
JANEWAY: Goodbye, Tuvok.

[Admiral Janeway's apartment]
JANEWAY: You must be the only Doctor who still makes house calls.
EMH: What are your symptoms?
JANEWAY: I'm perfectly fine.
EMH: For thirty three years you fought me every time you were due for a physical. Now you ask me to give you one ahead of schedule?
JANEWAY: I'm taking a trip. I just wanted to get our appointment out of the way before I left.
EMH: That's all?
JANEWAY: That's all.
EMH: Hmm. The good news is you're as healthy as you were the first day I examined you.
JANEWAY: Well, now that's out of the way, have a seat. We didn't get to talk much at the party.
EMH: No, I don't suppose we did.
JANEWAY: So, how's married life?
EMH: Wonderful. You should try it.
JANEWAY: Oh, I think it's a little late for that. Marriage is for the young, like your wife.
EMH: I can only hope she ages as gracefully as you have. I, of course, will be the same handsome hologram twenty years from now as I am today.
JANEWAY: I've been meaning to ask you. Are you familiar with a drug called Chronexaline?
EMH: We've been testing it at Starfleet Medical to determine if it can protect biomatter from tachyon radiation.
JANEWAY: And?
EMH: It's very promising. Why do you ask?
JANEWAY: I need two thousand milligrams by tomorrow afternoon.
EMH: Why?
JANEWAY: That's classified. Will you get it for me?
EMH: Of course, Admiral. You'll have it by oh nine hundred.
JANEWAY: Thank you.

[Starfleet Communications]
COMPUTER: Download complete.
BARCLAY: This should be everything you need.
JANEWAY: The shuttle?
BARCLAY: Waiting for you at the Oakland shipyard. I wish you'd let me come with you.
JANEWAY: Sorry, Reg, but this is my mission. Besides, if you leave there won't anyone to teach those eager young cadets about the Borg.
BARCLAY: Oh. I made you some fresh tea for the trip. Not that replicated stuff.
JANEWAY: Thank you, for everything. I wouldn't have been able to do this without you.
BARCLAY: Oh, don't remind me.

[Hillside - Chakotay's grave]
JANEWAY: Any final words of advice for your old captain? Wait, don't tell me. I'm being impulsive. I haven't considered all the consequences. It's too risky. Thanks for the input, but I've got to do what I think is right.
JANEWAY: I know it wasn't easy living all these years without her, Chakotay. But when I'm through, things might be better for all of us. Trust me.

[2378 - USS Voyager - Torres-Paris' Quarters]
TORRES: Tom. Tom?
PARIS: I'm sleeping.
TORRES: It's time.
PARIS: For what?
TORRES: I'll give you one guess.
PARIS: Paris to
PARIS: Paris to Sickbay, it's time.
EMH (voiceover): Relax, Mister Paris. Can she stand?
PARIS: Affirmative.
EMH (voiceover): Then I suggest you report to Sickbay.
PARIS: What about B'Elanna?
EMH (voiceover): Her, too.
PARIS: Right, of course. Maybe we should take the transporter. Hey, wait for me!

[Sickbay]
EMH: Hmm.
PARIS: What do you mean by hmm?
EMH: You're going to have a very healthy baby, but not tonight.
TORRES: Tell me you're joking.
EMH: You're experiencing false labor, Lieutenant.
PARIS: Again?
EMH: As I explained the last time, it's a common occurrence, especially among Klingons.
TORRES: I want this thing out of me now.
EMH: Misdirected rage. Another common occurrence among Klingons.
PARIS: Can't you induce?
EMH: I wouldn't recommend it
PARIS: If this keeps happening, we'll never get any sleep.
EMH: You think it's bad now?

[Ready room]
JANEWAY: When?
CHAKOTAY: Oh four hundred.
JANEWAY: How many false alarms does that make?
CHAKOTAY: Three that we know of.
JANEWAY: That baby is as stubborn as her mother.
CHAKOTAY: Harry's starting a pool to see who can guess the actual date and time of birth.
JANEWAY: Tell him to put me down for next Friday, twenty three hundred hours. Anything else?
CHAKOTAY: Crewman Chell's asked about taking over in the mess hall full time.
JANEWAY: Neelix left some pretty big pots and pans to fill. Does Mister Chell feel he's up to the challenge?
CHAKOTAY: Apparently so. He's prepared a sample menu.
JANEWAY: Plasma leek soup? Chicken warp core don bleu?
CHAKOTAY: If his cooking's as bad as his puns, we're in trouble.
JANEWAY: Oh, I don't know. I wouldn't mind giving his Red Alert chili a try. Feel like having lunch?
CHAKOTAY: I'd love to, but I've already made plans. Rain check?
JANEWAY: Absolutely.

[Cargo Bay two]
CHAKOTAY: What's all this?
SEVEN: A picnic. According to my research, this is an appropriate third date.
CHAKOTAY: You didn't have to go to this much trouble.
SEVEN: If this makes you uncomfortable I could prepare a less elaborate meal.
CHAKOTAY: No, don't change a thing. This is perfection.

[Mess hall]
TUVOK: In the interest of fair play, I should inform you that Mister Kim has never defeated me at Kal-toh.
KIM: You should've listened to me.
TUVOK: Kal-toh is as much a game of patience as it is of logic. An experienced player will sometimes take several hours to decide his next move, and in some cases even days may be necessary to
ICHEB: Kal-toh.
KIM: You beat him.
TUVOK: Congratulations.
ICHEB: I'm sure it was just beginner's luck, sir. I'd offer you a rematch, but I'm due in Astrometrics.
KIM: He may have to go, but I'm free and feeling lucky.
TUVOK: If you'll excuse me, Ensign.
KIM: It's just a game, Tuvok.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Icheb's an exceptionally bright young man. Did it occur to you that he might simply be a better player?
TUVOK: My loss was the result of another lapse in concentration.
EMH: I am detecting lower neuropeptide levels.
TUVOK: As I suspected. My condition is deteriorating.
EMH: It's a minor change. We knew it would happen. I simply have to increase your medication.
TUVOK: Thank you, Doctor.
EMH: Commander. I understand your desire for privacy, but maybe it's time we informed the captain.
TUVOK: I will inform her if and when the disorder begins to affect the performance of my duties.
EMH: Of course.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Your move.
NEELIX (screen): Green, grid twelve ten.
SEVEN: Red, grid three thirteen.
NEELIX (screen): Tricky.
SEVEN: How's Brax?
NEELIX (screen): Wonderful. Thanks for asking. I know I can never replace his father, but
SEVEN: I have no doubt the boy looks up to you.
NEELIX (screen): Orange, grid ten twelve. I haven't told anyone, but I'm thinking of asking Dexa to marry me.
SEVEN: She'd be wise to accept.
NEELIX (screen): That's enough of my love life. How about yours?
SEVEN: I don't have a love life.
NEELIX (screen): Oh? What about your relationship with Commander Chakotay?
SEVEN: It's your turn.
NEELIX (screen): Actually, it's yours. At least tell me how he liked the picnic.
SEVEN: It was an enjoyable activity for both of us. Thank you for suggesting it.
NEELIX (screen): Any time. What is it?
SEVEN: Long range sensors are detecting extremely high neutrino emissions accompanied by an intermittent graviton flux approximately three light years away.
NEELIX (screen): A wormhole?
SEVEN: I'm not sure. I'll need to conduct more scans.
NEELIX (screen): We can finish our game tomorrow.
SEVEN: I'll contact you at the usual time.

[Bridge]
SEVEN: The emissions are occurring at the center of the nebula. There appear to be hundreds of distinct sources.
KIM: Which could translate to hundreds of wormholes.
SEVEN: The radiation is interfering with our sensors, but if Ensign Kim's enthusiasm turns out to be justified, it would be the most concentrated occurrence of wormholes ever recorded.
JANEWAY: Any idea where they lead?
KIM: Not yet, but if just one of them leads to the Alpha Quadrant.
PARIS: Who knows, Harry? It might take us right into your parents' living room.
JANEWAY: Alter course, Mister Paris. Ensign, when you speak to your mother, tell her we may need her to move the sofa.

[2404 - Starfleet Medical - Tuvok's room]
TUVOK: 71 53 53 31 71 53 53 31 71 53.
PHYSICIAN: Sorry if I pulled you away from something important, sir, but he won't let anyone near him and I thought you might
EMH: You did the right thing. His condition's never been associated with violent behavior,
PHYSICIAN: He seems more frustrated than violent.
TUVOK: Long range sensors have detected no trace. Her disappearance remains a mystery. I am deeply concerned.
EMH: What are you concerned about, Tuvok?
JANEWAY: Her disappearance.
EMH: Whose?
TUVOK: 53 31 71 53.
PHYSICIAN: He's been repeating those same numbers over and over again. 53 31 71. It might be a stardate.
EMH: Stardate 53317. If my memory files are accurate, that was the day Captain Janeway was abducted by the Kellidians. Is that who you're talking about, Tuvok? Captain Janeway?
TUVOK: Her disappearance remains a mystery.
EMH: No, you solved that mystery, Tuvok. You rescued the captain and brought her back to Voyager safe and sound. Remember?
TUVOK: I am deeply concerned, deeply concerned.
PHYSICIAN: Do you think if the Admiral paid him a visit, showed him that she was all right?
EMH: Unfortunately, she's out of town right now. I'm not sure when she'll be back.
TUVOK: She's never coming back! Her disappearance remains a mystery. I'm deeply concerned. Deeply concerned.

[Barclay's office]
EMH: Voyager to Pathfinder. Come in, Pathfinder.
BARCLAY: Doctor! What a pleasant surp. Oh, I've forgotten about our golf game again, haven't I?
JANEWAY: Relax, Reg, it's not until next week. I'm here because I need to get in touch with Admiral Janeway.
BARCLAY: Oh, she's out of town.
EMH: I know. Did she tell you where she was going?
BARCLAY: Er, I'm afraid it, it never came up. I mean, is something wrong?
EMH: I'm not sure. I paid a visit to Tuvok this morning. He seemed to think that she was in some sort of danger.
BARCLAY: Well, you know better than anyone how confused Tuvok can get.
EMH: Yes, but I've been worried about the admiral, too.
BARCLAY: Why?
EMH: Two days ago, she asked me for a large quantity of an experimental medication. When I asked her why she needed it, she said it was classified.
BARCLAY: Then you shouldn't be telling me about it, should you?
EMH: I spoke to Director Okaro at Starfleet Intelligence. He assured me that the admiral hasn't been involved in any classified work since she began teaching at the Academy.
BARCLAY: You know how sneaky these Intelligence people can be. Maybe he was just trying to throw you off.
EMH: Maybe. But still. She's been talking for months about how excited she is to be teaching with you. Then, just as the semester begins, she goes away without even telling you where. Don't you find that a little strange?
BARCLAY: I, I'm sure that there is a perfectly reasonable explanation, Doctor. I'm sorry, I have some p-papers to grade.
EMH: You're stammering, Reg.
BARCLAY: S-s-so?
EMH: I haven't heard you do that in years. I think you do know where she is.
BARCLAY: She is one of the most decorated officers in all of Starfleet history, and I'm, I'm sure she can take care of herself.
EMH: You wouldn't be saying that unless she was doing something dangerous.
BARCLAY: You are putting words in my mouth.
EMH: Tell me where she is, Reg.

[Cavern]
MIRAL: Welcome to the House of Korath, Admiral.
JANEWAY: I love what he's done with the place.
KLINGON: Kuva'kor li'ju!Q mah.
MIRAL: PetaQ! DabeQ chu'magh an'noQ.
JANEWAY: What was that about?
MIRAL: He said your demeanor was disrespectful.
JANEWAY: I hope you told him I didn't mean to be rude.
MIRAL: I told him if he didn't show you more respect, I would break his arm.
JANEWAY: You are your mother's daughter.
MIRAL: Korath is waiting. We should go in.
JANEWAY: Sorry, but this is where we part ways.
MIRAL: Excuse me?
JANEWAY: You're dismissed, Ensign.
MIRAL: But, Admiral, I really think that
JANEWAY: I can take care of myself.
MIRAL: With all due respect, I've been working on this for six months, and
JANEWAY: And you've done an exemplary job. But it's over. Understood?
MIRAL: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: I happen to know your parents are anxious to spend some time with you. Take a few days leave. Go and see them.

[Laboratory]
KORATH: A Cardassian disruptor. I've modified it to emit a nadion pulse.
JANEWAY: Impressive, but that's not what I've come for.
KORATH: No. You've come for something far more dangerous.
JANEWAY: Where is it?
KORATH: Somewhere safe.
JANEWAY: I went to a great deal of trouble to get you your seat on the High Council. Now give me what you promised.
KORATH: I've scanned your shuttle. It appears that you've made some interesting modifications. Your shield generator is of particular interest.
JANEWAY: It's not for sale.
KORATH: Then what you want isn't available either.
JANEWAY: We had an agreement.
KORATH: Show the admiral out.

[2378 - Bridge]
PARIS: Maybe Chell should add Nebula Soup to his menu.
JANEWAY: Shields?
TUVOK: Holding.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Astrometrics.
SEVEN (voiceover): Go ahead.
JANEWAY: Any more data on those neutrino emissions?

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Negative, Captain. I still can't get a clear scan.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Distance to the center?
SEVEN: Six million kilometers.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What is it?
TUVOK: I'm detecting a tritanium signature, bearing three four two, mark five five.
PARIS: Whatever it is, it's too close.
JANEWAY: Evasive maneuvers.
CHAKOTAY: Is it a ship?
TUVOK: Possibly.
KIM: Another tritanium signature, right on top of us.
JANEWAY: Tom!
JANEWAY: Get us out of here now.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
BORG (voiceover): Vessel identified: USS Voyager. We will pursue and assimilate.
QUEEN: No. They haven't compromised our security. Let the vessel continue, for now. I'll keep an eye on them.

[Briefing room]
TUVOK: There's no evidence that the Cube detected us.
CHAKOTAY: Where is it now?
SEVEN: Approximately three light years away.
PARIS: How could they not have seen us? We came within ten meters of their hull.
TUVOK: The Borg wouldn't knowingly risk a collision. The radiation must have interfered with their sensors as well.
KIM: If they can't detect us, we should go back.
SEVEN: I wouldn't recommend it. My analysis of the tritanium signature suggests there were at least forty seven Borg vessels inside the nebula.
KIM: We can't just give up on those wormholes.
JANEWAY: Oh yes, we can.
KIM: What if we try to modify
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, Mister Kim. You may be the captain someday, but not today.

[Corridor]
KIM: Tom, what are you doing when your shift ends?
PARIS: No plans. Why?
KIM: I've been thinking. You and I should have some fun. One last adventure before you get too busy being a father.
PARIS: Did you reserve some holodeck time?
KIM: I've got a better idea.
PARIS: This is your idea of fun?
KIM: It'll work. We just need to make a few modifications to the Flyer.
PARIS: We might as well just hand it over to the Borg.
KIM: How could that happen with the best pilot in the quadrant at the helm?
PARIS: Nice try.
KIM: If we go to the captain together, she'll be much more likely to approve my plan.
PARIS: I don't want her to approve it.
KIM: Where's your sense of adventure?
PARIS: I left it in that nebula and I'm not going back for it.
KIM: Don't you want to find a way home?
PARIS: I am home, Harry.
KIM: Captain Proton would never walk away from a mission like this.
PARIS: Captain Proton doesn't have a wife, and a baby on the way.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: If you're here for my daily report, it's not complete.
CHAKOTAY: Actually I'm here in an unofficial capacity. I was wondering if you'd like to get together again.
SEVEN: To do what?
CHAKOTAY: Well, that all depends on your research. Would a quiet dinner be an appropriate fourth date?
SEVEN: I believe it would be a more suitable fifth date.
CHAKOTAY: I'm willing to skip ahead if you are.

[Sickbay]
EMH: You're fine, aside from some minor inflammation around your biradial clamp. Let me know if it starts to bother you. Is there something else?
SEVEN: Do you remember three months ago, when my cortical node shut down?
EMH: How could I forget.
SEVEN: You said it might be possible to remove the fail-safe device that was causing the problem.
EMH: Has it been giving you trouble again?
SEVEN: No, but I've reconsidered your offer to extract it.
EMH: I've been hoping you would.
SEVEN: You said it would require several surgeries.
EMH: Actually, in anticipation of your change of heart, I've been studying the problem in more detail. I now believe I can reconfigure the microcircuitry with a single procedure. You'll be free to experience the full ranges of emotions. Everything from a hearty belly laugh to a good cry.
SEVEN: How soon can you do it?
EMH: Today, if you'd like.
SEVEN: My shift ends at eighteen hundred hours.
EMH: It's a date. Speaking of dates. Once the fail-safe is gone, you'll be free to pursue more intimate relationships.
SEVEN: I'm aware of that.
EMH: If you decide you need help with that aspect of your humanity, I'm always at your disposal.
SEVEN: I appreciate that.
EMH: Really?
SEVEN: Yes. But I already have all the help I need.
EMH: Ah, of course. You'll undoubtedly be running more simulations with the Chakotay hologram.
SEVEN: No, actually. I'll see you at eighteen hundred hours.

[2404 - Laboratory]
KLINGON: Maktah hoon Janeway takt.
JANEWAY: I've reconsidered your offer.
KORATH: I thought you might.
JANEWAY: I'll give you the shield emitter, but not until I've inspected the device you're offering. To make sure it's genuine.
KORATH: You question my honor?
JANEWAY: If you were honorable, you wouldn't have changed the terms of our agreement. Show it to me, or I'm leaving.
JANEWAY: This will do just fine.
KORATH: Stop her!

[Shuttlecraft]
JANEWAY: Computer, deploy armor.
JANEWAY: Lay in a course for these coordinates.
JANEWAY: What do you want?
KORATH (screen): You'll pay for your deceit, ghuy'cha! The House of Korath won't rest until you've drowned in your own blood!
JANEWAY: I'd love to stay and chat, but I'm on a tight schedule.
JANEWAY: Computer, warp six.
COMPUTER: Approaching designated co-ordinates.
JANEWAY: All stop.
COMPUTER: Warning. Vessel approaching. Vector one two one mark six.
JANEWAY: Harry. And people are always saying that space is so big.
KIM (screen): Lower your shields, Admiral. Prepare for transport. I'm taking you into custody.
JANEWAY: You have no grounds to take me into custody, Captain.
KIM (screen): Reg told the Doctor everything, and the Doctor told me. Now please, Admiral, stand down.
JANEWAY: On one condition. You let me explain why I'm doing this.

[USS Rhode Island - Kim's Ready room]
KIM: You have no idea what the consequences would be.
JANEWAY: I know what the consequences are if we do nothing. So do you. I have a chance to change all that.
KIM: If Starfleet Command knew what you were trying to do
JANEWAY: You haven't told them?
KIM: The Doctor and I decided to keep things in the family.
JANEWAY: What about your crew?
KIM: I told them I needed to take you back to Starfleet Medical because you'd contracted a rare disease.
JANEWAY: I hope it isn't terminal.
KIM: No, but it has been known to affect judgment.
JANEWAY: I know what I'm doing, Harry.
KIM: Do you? Can you say with absolute certainty that it'll work? Because if you can't. Even if it weren't a violation of every rule in the book, it would still be far too risky. What.
JANEWAY: I'm remembering a young Ensign who wanted to fly into a Borg-infested nebula, just to explore the remote possibility that we might find a way home.
KIM: If I remember correctly, you stopped me.
JANEWAY: We didn't know then what we know now.
KIM: Our technology may have advanced, but
JANEWAY: I'm not talking about technology, I'm talking about people. People who weren't as lucky as you and me. You said you and the Doctor wanted to keep things in the family. But our family's not complete any more, is it? I'm asking you to trust my judgment, Harry. One last time.

[2378 - Chakotay's quarters]
SEVEN: Am I early?
CHAKOTAY: No, you're right on time. Something wrong with the door?
SEVEN: I didn't think it would be discreet to be seen carrying flowers to the First Officer's quarters.
CHAKOTAY: Your research? I should put these in water.
SEVEN: I've been told that anticipation of the first kiss is often uncomfortable. I wanted to alleviate the tension.
CHAKOTAY: That was very considerate of you. What about the second kiss?
SEVEN: I'd have to check the database. It may indicate
JANEWAY (voiceover): Senior officers report to the bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Next time we deactivate the comm. system.

[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: What is it?
JANEWAY: Judging from the tachyon emissions, some sort of temporal rift.
SEVEN: How's it being generated?
JANEWAY: That's what we're trying to figure out.

[2404 - Janeway's shuttle]
KIM: If Starfleet Command finds out I had anything to do with this, they'll demote me back to Ensign.
JANEWAY: You worry too much, Harry. It's turning you gray.
KIM: Propulsion's online, plasma flow's stable. This device of Korath's, it produces too much tachyo-kinetic energy. It could burn itself out by the time you get where you're going. You wouldn't be able to get back.
JANEWAY: I always assumed it was a one way trip.
KIM: You're sure I can't talk you out of this? Right. Stupid question.
KIM: Kim to the Rhode Island, one to beam back.
JANEWAY: Computer, activate the chrono-deflector.
JANEWAY: Deploy armor.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Ablative generator is offline.
JANEWAY: Evasive pattern beta six. Open a channel to the Rhode Island.
KIM: Harry, I'm under attack. How fast can you get back here?

[2378 - Bridge]
TUVOK: I'm detecting nadion discharges on the other side of the rift.
CHAKOTAY: Weapons fire?
TUVOK: It's possible. The signature appears to be Klingon.
JANEWAY: Red alert.

[2404 - Janeway's shuttle]
KIM (voiceover): Stand by for transport, Admiral.
JANEWAY: You know where I'm going, Harry, and it's not to your ship.
KIM (voiceover): Your structural integrity is failing.
JANEWAY: Just get these Klingons off my tail. Computer, activate the tachyon pulse and direct it to these spatial and temporal coordinates.

[2378 - Bridge]
TUVOK: There's a vessel coming through the rift.
CHAKOTAY: Klingon?
TUVOK: No, Federation.
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
ADMIRAL (screen): Recalibrate your deflector to emit an anti-tachyon pulse. You have to seal that rift.
TUVOK: Captain, a Klingon vessel is coming through.
ADMIRAL (screen): Close the rift. In case you didn't notice, I outrank you, Captain. Now do it.
JANEWAY: I did what you asked. Now tell me what the hell is going on.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
ADMIRAL (screen): I've come to bring Voyager home.

[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: Welcome aboard.
ADMIRAL: It's good to be back.

[Ready room]
ADMIRAL: Fresh coffee.
JANEWAY: Would you like a cup?
ADMIRAL: No, I gave it up years ago. I only drink tea now. I told the curator at the museum that if he wanted to make the ready room more authentic, he should always keep a steaming pot of coffee on the desk.
JANEWAY: Voyager's in a museum?
ADMIRAL: Voyager is a museum, on the grounds of the Presidio. On a clear morning, you can see Alcatraz from here.
JANEWAY: You made it back to Earth.
ADMIRAL: Unfortunately, our favorite cup took a bit of a beating along the way. It was damaged during a battle with the Fen Domar.
JANEWAY: Who?
ADMIRAL: You'll run into them in a few years.
JANEWAY: You know what? I shouldn't be listening to details about the future.
ADMIRAL: Oh, the almighty Temporal Prime Directive. Take my advice. It's less of a headache if you just ignore it.
JANEWAY: You've obviously decided to, or you wouldn't be here.
ADMIRAL: A lot's happened to me since I was you.
JANEWAY: Well, I'm still me, and this is still my ship. So no more talk about what's going to happen until I decide otherwise. Understood?
ADMIRAL: All right. Let's talk about the past. Three days ago, you detected elevated neutrino emissions in a nebula in grid nine eight six. You thought it might be a way home. You were right. I've come to tell you to take Voyager back to that nebula.
JANEWAY: It was crawling with Borg.
ADMIRAL: I've brought technology that'll get us past them. Oh, I don't blame you for being skeptical. But if you can't trust yourself, who can you trust?
JANEWAY: For the sake of argument, let's say I believe everything you're telling me. The future you come from sounds pretty good. Voyager's home, I'm an admiral. There are ways to defend against the Borg. My ready room even gets preserved for posterity.
ADMIRAL: So, why would you want to tamper with such a rosy timeline? To answer that, I'd have to tell you more than you want to know. But suffice it to say, if you don't do what I'm suggesting, it's going to take you another sixteen years to get this ship home, and there are going to be casualties along the way. I know exactly what you're thinking.
JANEWAY: You've also become a telepath?
ADMIRAL: I used to be you, remember? You're asking yourself, is she really who she says she is, or is this some sort of deception? For all you know, I could be a member of species 8472 in disguise. Have your people examine my shuttle. Tell them to take a close look at the weapons systems and the armor technology. In the meantime, the Doctor can confirm my identity.

[Sickbay]
EMH: My scans of the Admiral's cerebral cortex turned up something interesting,
JANEWAY: What is it?
EMH: I'm not sure. I've never seen this kind of implant before.
JANEWAY: Alien technology?
EMH: The microcircuitry has a Starfleet signature.
ADMIRAL: Of course it does.
EMH: Admiral?
ADMIRAL: You invented it. Twelve years ago, from my perspective.
EMH: I'm sorry, Admiral, I didn't realize.
ADMIRAL: What, that I was eavesdropping? I may be old, but my hearing's still excellent, thanks to your exemplary care over the years.
EMH: So, this implant I'm going to invent. What does it do?
ADMIRAL: It's a synaptic transceiver. It allows me to pilot a vessel equipped with a neural interface.
EMH: Fascinating. Tell me, what other extraordinary breakthroughs am I going to make?
JANEWAY: Doctor.
EMH: Sorry, Captain, but you can't blame a hologram for being curious.
JANEWAY: Just finish your report.
EMH: Yes, ma'am. My scans indicate the two of you are genetically identical. The admiral is you, approximately twenty six years from now.
ADMIRAL: Hello, Seven.
SEVEN: The technology aboard the admiral's ship is impressive. Much of it appears to have been designed to defend against the Borg.
JANEWAY: Could we install these systems on Voyager?
SEVEN: The stealth technology is incompatible, but I believe we can adapt the armor and weapons.
ADMIRAL: Well, Captain?
JANEWAY: Do it. Captain's personal log, stardate 54973.4. We've begun outfitting Voyager with Admiral Janeway's upgrades. As soon as the major modifications are complete, we'll reverse course and head back to the nebula. Though I've certainly had some strange experiences in my career, nothing quite compares to the sight of my future self briefing my officers on technology that hasn't been invented yet.

[Cargo Bay two / Borg Queen's chamber]
SEVEN: Computer, begin regeneration cycle.
QUEEN: Seven of Nine, tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix Zero One. It's been too long.
SEVEN: What do you want?
QUEEN: Do I need a reason to visit a friend?
SEVEN: We're not friends.
QUEEN: No. We're more than that, we're family. And while we're on the subject of old friends, I see that Voyager has just gotten a visitor, and she's come from the future. Tell me why.
SEVEN: You may be able to communicate with me while I'm regenerating, but I'm no longer a drone. I don't answer to you.
QUEEN: I've extrapolated Voyager's trajectory. I know that you're returning to the nebula. I suggest you alter course.
SEVEN: Why should we comply?
QUEEN: You've always been my favorite, Seven. In spite of their obvious imperfections. I know how much you care for the Voyager crew. So I've left them alone. Imagine how you'd feel if I were forced to assimilate them.
SEVEN: Voyager is no threat to the Collective. We simply want to return to the Alpha Quadrant.
QUEEN: I've no objection to that. But if you try to enter my nebula again, I'll destroy you.
COMPUTER: Warning. Regeneration cycle incomplete.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Her cortical node was exposed to a low-energy EM surge. It could have been much worse.
SEVEN: It was the Borg Queen. She wanted to make sure I'd be able to deliver a message. She said she'd assimilate Voyager if we attempted to re-enter the nebula.
JANEWAY: Why is it so important to her?
ADMIRAL: It doesn't matter. She's not going to be able to make good on her threat.
JANEWAY: I wish I shared your confidence.
ADMIRAL: You would if you'd had as much experience with the Queen as I have.
JANEWAY: It was one thing to attempt this when we thought it was a secret but if the Borg are monitoring us.
ADMIRAL: There's no guarantee they won't try to assimilate Voyager even if we don't go back into the nebula.
EMH: Is that supposed to be reassuring?
ADMIRAL: I'm not saying the Borg aren't dangerous, but from my perspective, they're thirty years behind the times.
JANEWAY: We shouldn't push our luck.
ADMIRAL: Luck's not going to have anything to do with it. I know, you don't want to hear too much about the future, but let's just say I ran into the Borg a few more times before I made it home. If I hadn't developed technology and tactics that could defeat them, I wouldn't be standing here today.
JANEWAY: We'll maintain course for the nebula, but we'll stay at Red alert. And I want continuous scans for Borg activity.

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: I heard what happened. Are you all right?
SEVEN: I'm fine.
CHAKOTAY: Because if you need time to rest, I am in charge of the duty roster.
SEVEN: It would be inappropriate to allow our personal relationship to affect your command decisions.
CHAKOTAY: You're right. This is a time to keep things professional. Report.
SEVEN: There's no sign of Borg activity within a ten light year radius.
CHAKOTAY: That's good news, Crewman.
SEVEN: Yes, sir. But we shouldn't underestimate the Collective.
CHAKOTAY: The Admiral seems confident we can make it past them.
SEVEN: Captain Janeway is more cautious.
CHAKOTAY: Our chances would be good with one Kathryn Janeway on the bridge, but with two, I'd bet on this ship any day. If we do make it back to Earth, what are your plans?
SEVEN: I assume Starfleet will want to debrief me. And then I suppose I'll attempt to find a useful position somewhere. You?
CHAKOTAY: I don't know yet either. But wherever I end up, I'm going to make sure it's in transporter range of you.

[Engineering]
TORRES: I don't want this whole system crashing because of one faulty relay. Install new ones.
CREWMEN: Yes, ma'am.
TORRES: And I need an update on the inductor capacitance.
CREWWOMAN: Yes, Lieutenant.
PARIS: B'Elanna.
TORRES: Shouldn't you be on the bridge?
PARIS: Is there something wrong with the pilot requesting a systems report from the Chief Engineer?
TORRES: The last report I got said the comm. system was working perfectly.
PARIS: Okay, you caught me. I'm checking up on you.
TORRES: I'm fine.
PARIS: Your back?
TORRES: I'm ignoring it.
PARIS: Well, I would offer to give you a massage, but then everybody would want one.
TORRES: You know, for a Starfleet fly boy you're pretty sweet.
PARIS: So how's it going?
TORRES: This armor technology that the Admiral brought? It's incredible. I hate to sound like Harry, but we might actually make it this time.
PARIS: Well, you don't seem too happy about that.
TORRES: Oh, I'm happy. It's just that I'd actually gotten used to the idea of raising our daughter on Voyager. And now I might end up delivering her at Starfleet Medical instead of Sickbay.
PARIS: That wouldn't be so bad, would it?
TORRES: Not as long as you're with me. And I want the Doctor. I don't want some stranger.
PARIS: You would have to take him offline to keep him away.
TORRES: If we do make it home, where do you think we'll live?
PARIS: Well, we could always stay with my parents for a while. You're right. Bad idea.
TORRES: Of course, it probably doesn't matter to you anyway. You fly boys are all the same. You'll probably take the first piloting assignment that comes along and leave me home to change the diapers.
PARIS: Not a chance.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering.
TORRES (voiceover): Go ahead, Captain.
JANEWAY: Deploy armor.
TORRES (voiceover): Yes, ma'am.
TUVOK: Armor integrity at ninety seven percent.
JANEWAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: Integrity holding at ninety percent.
JANEWAY: Maintain course.
ADMIRAL: They're looking for ways to adapt.
TUVOK: Port armor integrity down to fifty percent, forty percent.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, attack pattern alpha one. Target the lead Cube and fire transphasic torpedoes.
JANEWAY: Target the second Cube.
CHAKOTAY: Distance to the center?
SEVEN: Less than one hundred thousand kilometers.
JANEWAY: What the hell is it?
ADMIRAL: Mister Paris, alter course to enter the aperture at coordinates three four six by four two.
JANEWAY: Belay that. I asked you a question. What is it?
ADMIRAL: The road home.
SEVEN: It's more than that. It's a transwarp hub.
JANEWAY: You once told me there were only six of them in the galaxy.
SEVEN: That's correct.
JANEWAY: You knew this was here, but you didn't tell me about it. Why?
ADMIRAL: I'll answer all your questions once we're back in the Alpha Quadrant.
JANEWAY: Take us out of the nebula.
PARIS: Captain?
JANEWAY: You heard me.
ADMIRAL: I gave you an order, Lieutenant. Proceed to the aperture.
JANEWAY: This is my bridge, Admiral, and I'll have you removed if necessary. Take us out.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.

[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: This hub connects with thousands of transwarp conduits with end points in all four quadrants. It allows the Collective to deploy vessels almost anywhere in the galaxy within minutes.
TUVOK: Of all the Borg's tactical advantages, this could be the most significant.
CHAKOTAY: It's no wonder the Queen didn't want us in that nebula.
JANEWAY: So how do we destroy it?
SEVEN: The structure is supported by a series of interspatial manifolds. If we could disable enough of them, theoretically the hub would collapse.
ADMIRAL: This is a waste of time. The shielding for those manifolds is regulated from the central nexus by the Queen herself. You might be able to damage one of them, maybe two. But by the time you moved onto the third, she'd adapt.
JANEWAY: There may be a way to bring them down simultaneously.
ADMIRAL: From where, inside the hub? Voyager would be crushed like a bug.
CHAKOTAY: What about taking the conduit back to the Alpha Quadrant and then destroying the structure from the other side?
ADMIRAL: This hub is here. There's nothing in the Alpha Quadrant but exit apertures. While you're all standing around dreaming up fantasy tactical scenarios, the Queen is studying her scans of our armor and weapons. And she's probably got the entire Collective working on a way to counter them. So take the ship back into that nebula and go home before it's too late.
JANEWAY: Find a way to destroy that hub. Let's take a walk.

[Corridor]
JANEWAY: I want to know why you didn't tell me about this.
ADMIRAL: Because I remember how stubborn and self-righteous I used to be. I figured you might try to do something stupid.
JANEWAY: We have an opportunity to deal a crippling blow to the Borg. It could save millions of lives.
ADMIRAL: I didn't spend the last ten years looking for a way to get this crew home earlier, so you could throw it all away on some intergalactic goodwill mission.
JANEWAY: Maybe we should go back to Sickbay.
ADMIRAL: Why, so you can have me sedated?
JANEWAY: So I can have the Doctor reconfirm your identity. I refuse to believe I'll ever become as cynical as you.
ADMIRAL: Am I the only one experiencing déjà vu here?
JANEWAY: What are you talking about?
ADMIRAL: Seven years ago you had the chance to use the Caretaker's array to get Voyager home. Instead, you destroyed it.
JANEWAY: I did what I knew was right.
ADMIRAL: You chose to put the lives of strangers ahead of the lives of your crew. You can't make the same mistake again.
JANEWAY: You got Voyager home, which means I will too. If it takes a few more years then that's
ADMIRAL: Seven of Nine is going to die.
JANEWAY: What?
ADMIRAL: Three years from now. She'll be injured on an away mission. She'll make it back to Voyager, and die in the arms of her husband.
JANEWAY: Husband?
ADMIRAL: Chakotay. He'll never be the same after Seven's death, and neither will you.
JANEWAY: If I know what's going to happen, I can avoid it.
ADMIRAL: Seven isn't the only one. Between this day and the day I got Voyager home, I lost twenty two crew members. And then of course there's Tuvok.
JANEWAY: What about him?
ADMIRAL: You're forgetting the Temporal Prime Directive, Captain.
JANEWAY: The hell with it.
ADMIRAL: Fine. Tuvok has a degenerative neurological condition that he hasn't told you about. There's a cure in the Alpha Quadrant, but if he doesn't get it in time
ADMIRAL: Even if you alter Voyager's route, limit your contact with alien species, you're going to lose people. But I'm offering you a chance to get all of them home safe and sound today. Are you really going to walk away from that?

[Ready room]
TUVOK: Your concern is appreciated, Captain, but premature. It will be several years before the symptoms become serious. Until then, the Doctor can manage my condition with medication.
JANEWAY: Is it true what the Admiral said? That there's a cure in the Alpha Quadrant?
TUVOK: It is called a fal-tor-voh, and it requires a mind meld with another Vulcan.
JANEWAY: What about the other Vulcans on Voyager?
TUVOK: None of them are compatible.
JANEWAY: But members of your family are? If you knew that returning to the Alpha Quadrant was your only chance for recovery, why didn't you object when I asked you to help find a way to destroy the hub?
TUVOK: My sense of logic isn't impaired yet. If we succeed, millions of lives will be saved.
JANEWAY: What about your life?
TUVOK: To quote Ambassador Spock, the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few.

[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: I appreciate your candor, Admiral, but Captain Janeway is my commanding officer. I won't disobey her.
ADMIRAL: I'm not asking you to. I simply want you to tell her that in your opinion, destroying the hub is too risky, the cost too high.
SEVEN: I can't do that.
ADMIRAL: Even if it means avoiding the consequences I mentioned?
SEVEN: Now that I know about those consequences, they're no longer a certainty. But even if they were, my death would be a small price to pay for the destruction of the transwarp network.
ADMIRAL: I have known you for a long time, Seven. Longer than you've known yourself. You are thinking that collapsing the network is an opportunity to atone for atrocities you participated in while you were a drone. It's time to let go of the past and start thinking about your future.
SEVEN: My future is insignificant compared to the lives of the people we'd be saving.
ADMIRAL: You're being selfish.
SEVEN: Selfish? I'm talking about helping others.
ADMIRAL: Strangers in a hypothetical scenario. I'm talking about real life. Your colleagues, your friends, people who love you. Imagine the impact your death would have on them.
SEVEN: Excuse me, Admiral. I have work to complete.

[Briefing room]
TUVOK: Once inside, we'd fire a spread of transphasic torpedoes.
SEVEN: They'd be programmed to detonate simultaneously.
TUVOK: If the torpedoes penetrate the shielding, the conduits should begin to collapse in a cascade reaction. In order to avoid the shock wave, we'd have less than ten seconds to exit the hub.
JANEWAY: A long time ago, I made a decision that stranded this crew in the Delta Quadrant. I don't regret that decision. But I didn't know all of you then, and Voyager was just a starship. It's much more than that now. It's become our home. I know I could order you to carry out this plan and none of you would hesitate for a second, but I'm not going to do that. You know the crewmen who work under you, and you know what your own hearts are telling you. So we're not going to attempt this unless everyone in this room agrees. No one will think less of you if you don't.
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Harry.
KIM: I think it's safe to say that no one on this crew has been more obsessed with getting home than I have. But, when I think about everything we've been through together, maybe it's not the destination that matters. Maybe it's the journey. And if that journey takes a little longer so we can do something we all believe in, I can't think of any place I'd rather be, or any people I'd rather be with.
PARIS: To the journey.
CHAKOTAY: Hear, hear.
ALL: To the journey!

[Mess hall]
ADMIRAL: Coffee, black.
JANEWAY: I thought you gave it up.
ADMIRAL: I've decided to revive a few of my old habits.
JANEWAY: Oh? What else, besides the coffee?
ADMIRAL: Oh, well. I used to be much more idealistic. I took a lot of risks. I've been so determined to get this crew home for so many years that I think I forgot how much they loved being together, and how loyal they were to you. It's taken me a few days to realize it. This is your ship, your crew. Not mine. I was wrong to lie to you, To think I could talk you out of something you'd set your mind to.
JANEWAY: You were only trying to do what you thought was right for all of us.
ADMIRAL: Well, you've changed my mind about that. And I'd like to help you carry out your mission. Maybe together we can increase our odds.
JANEWAY: Maybe we can do more than that. There's got to be a way to have our cake and eat it too.
ADMIRAL: We can't destroy the hub and get Voyager home.
JANEWAY: Are you absolutely sure about that?
ADMIRAL: There might be a way. I considered it once, but it seemed too risky.
JANEWAY: That was before you decided to revive your old habits.
ADMIRAL: I don't know why I ever gave this up.

[Admiral Janeway's shuttle]
ADMIRAL: It's about time. I'm not getting any younger, you know.
JANEWAY: You're sure you want to do this?
ADMIRAL: No, but Voyager isn't big enough for both of us.
JANEWAY: Good luck, Admiral.
ADMIRAL: You, too. Captain. I'm glad I got to know you again.

[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: Any word from the admiral?
SEVEN: We lost contact as soon as she entered the hub.
CHAKOTAY: Did the Borg give her any trouble?
SEVEN: Her vessel was scanned by several cubes, but none approached her, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Are we keeping things professional again today?
SEVEN: Yes, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: You're not joking, are you.
SEVEN: No.
CHAKOTAY: What's wrong?
SEVEN: Nothing. I'm just busy.
CHAKOTAY: I think I've gotten to know you a little better than that.
SEVEN: I'd prefer it if you didn't speak to me as though we're on intimate terms.
CHAKOTAY: We are on intimate terms.
SEVEN: Not any more.
CHAKOTAY: What the hell is going on?
SEVEN: I've decided to alter the parameters of our relationship.
CHAKOTAY: You mind telling me why?
SEVEN: We both have dangerous occupations. It's possible one of us could be seriously injured, or worse. I believe it's best to avoid emotional attachments.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you can just flip some Borg switch and shut down your emotions, but I can't.
SEVEN: I suggest you try. It will make things less difficult for you if any harm should come to me.
CHAKOTAY: Why are you suddenly so concerned about that? Is there something I should know?
SEVEN: The admiral suggested that your feelings for me will cause you pain in the future. I can't allow that to happen.
CHAKOTAY: Seven, any relationship involves risk. And nobody can guarantee what's going to happen tomorrow. not even an admiral from the future. The only certainty is how we feel about each other here and now. If you think I'm going to let you end this because of what might happen, then you need to get to know me a little better.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Try to relax, Lieutenant.
TORRES: If you tell me to relax one more time I'm going to rip your holographic head off.
EMH: I hope you don't intend to kiss your baby with that mouth.
PARIS: Tell me this isn't another false alarm.
EMH: This isn't another false alarm.
PARIS: I can't believe it.
TORRES: Oh, believe it!
PARIS: I might actually win.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: The baby pool. I picked today, fifteen hundred hours.
TORRES: I'm so glad I could accommodate you>
EMH: Don't celebrate yet. Klingon labor sometimes lasts several days. Of course, I'm sure that won't be the case here.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Bridge to Lieutenant Paris. We're ready to get underway.
PARIS: Captain, I'm afraid
TORRES: Go.
PARIS: But
TORRES: No buts, fly boy. If this mission is going to succeed we need our best pilot at the helm. Don't worry, the Doctor will be here with me.
JANEWAY (voiceover): Is there a problem, Mister Paris?
PARIS: On my way, Captain.
TORRES: Let's get this show on the road.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
BORG (voiceover): Voyager has altered course. Current position spatial grid three six two. Trajectory one one two mark five.
ADMIRAL: I don't know how you do it. All those voices talking at once. You must get terrible headaches. If you're calling drones to assimilate me, don't bother.
QUEEN: I don't need drones to assimilate you.
ADMIRAL: I'm not actually here, your Majesty. I'm in your mind. I'm

[Admiral Janeway's shuttle]
ADMIRAL: Using a synaptic interface. If I were you, I wouldn't waste my time trying to trace the signal.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
ADMIRAL: For the moment, it's beyond your abilities.
QUEEN: What do you want?
ADMIRAL: To make a deal. Captain Janeway thinks I'm here to help her destroy your transwarp network.
QUEEN: That's beyond your abilities.
ADMIRAL: Oh, I know that. And I tried to explain it to my naive, younger self, but she wouldn't listen. She's determined to bring down that hub.
QUEEN: She'll fail.
ADMIRAL: Yes, but she has weapons that I brought from the future. I believe you're familiar with them.
QUEEN: Transphasic torpedoes. We will adapt.
ADMIRAL: Eventually. But not before Voyager does a great deal of damage. I'm willing to tell you how to adapt to those weapons now.
QUEEN: In exchange for what?
ADMIRAL: Send a Cube to tractor Voyager and drag them back to the Alpha Quadrant.
QUEEN: You're asking me to believe that the incorruptible Kathryn Janeway would betray her own crew.
ADMIRAL: Not betray them, save them from themselves. I brought technology to help Voyager get home. But the captain's arrogant, self-righteous, and her officers are so blinded by loyalty that they're prepared to sacrifice their lives just to deal a crippling blow to the Borg.
QUEEN: But you'd never try to harm us.
ADMIRAL: I've become a pragmatist in my old age. All I want is to get that crew back to their families.
QUEEN: You wish to ensure the well-being of your Collective. I can appreciate that. I'll help you. But it'll cost more than you're offering.
ADMIRAL: What do you want?
QUEEN: Your vessel and its database.
ADMIRAL: I told you, I'll show you how to adapt to their torpedoes.
QUEEN: Insufficient.
ADMIRAL: If I let you assimilate technology from the future, there's no telling how events would be altered.
QUEEN: You're willing to alter the future by getting Voyager home now.
ADMIRAL: Oh yes, but there's a difference.
QUEEN: Do what all good pragmatists do, Admiral. Compromise.
ADMIRAL: All right. I'll give you the shuttle. After Voyager arrives safely in the Alpha Quadrant.
QUEEN: You've already lied to your younger self. How do I know you're not lying to me?
ADMIRAL: I guess you'll just have to trust me.
QUEEN: That won't be necessary. You underestimate me, Admiral. While we've been talking, my drones have triangulated your signal.

[Admiral Janeway's shuttle]
ADMIRAL: Computer, deactivate the interface. Deploy armor.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
QUEEN: Very clever. Hiding right on my doorstep. Were you planning to attack us from inside the Unicomplex? Not feeling talkative?
QUEEN: You and I don't need words to understand each other.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Take us in.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
BORG (voiceover): Voyager has entered aperture eight two three. Access transwarp corridor zero nine. Redirect vessels to intercept at subjunction
BORG (voiceover): Corridor. Nine. Voyager. USS. S zero zero nine transwarp transwarp intercept.
ADMIRAL: Must be something you assimilated.
QUEEN: What have you done?
ADMIRAL: I thought we didn't need words to understand each other.
QUEEN: You've infected us with an neurolytic pathogen.
ADMIRAL: Just enough to bring chaos to order.

[Bridge]
SEVEN: The admiral's succeeded, Captain. The conduit's shielding is destabilizing.
JANEWAY: Now, Mister Tuvok.

[Borg Queen's chamber]
QUEEN: Voyager will be destroyed.
ADMIRAL: They're ahead of the shock wave. They'll survive. Captain Janeway and I made sure of that. It's you who underestimated us.
QUEEN: Sphere six three four. They can still hear my thoughts.
QUEEN: I may have assimilated your pathogen, but I also assimilated your armor technology.
QUEEN: Captain Janeway is about to die. If she has no future, you will never exist, and nothing that you've done here today will happen.

[Starfleet Command]
PARIS: What the hell is it?
BARCLAY: A transwarp aperture. It's less than a light year from Earth.
OFFICER: How many Borg vessels?
BARCLAY: We can't get a clear reading, but the graviton emissions are off the scale.
ADMIRAL PARIS: I want every ship in range to converge on those coordinates now.
CREWWOMAN: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
TUVOK: Aft armor is down to six percent.
KIM: Hull breaches on decks six through twelve.
PARIS: I can't stay ahead of them, Captain.
TUVOK: The armor is failing.
CHAKOTAY: Where's the nearest aperture?
SEVEN: Approximately thirty seconds ahead, but it leads back to the Delta Quadrant.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, prepare to adjust your heading.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.

[Starfleet Command]
OFFICER: We've got eighteen ships in position, nine more on the way.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Open a channel.
BARCLAY: Open, sir.
ADMIRAL PARIS: This is Admiral Paris. Use all necessary force. I repeat, all necessary force.
BARCLAY: Sir, there's a vessel coming through.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, what's our position?
PARIS: Right where we expect it to be.
SEVEN: The transwarp network has been obliterated, Captain.
JANEWAY: We'll celebrate later. Mister Tuvok?

[Starfleet Command]
PARIS: Cease fire.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We did it.
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen.
JANEWAY: Sorry to surprise you. Next time we'll call ahead.
ADMIRAL PARIS (screen): Welcome back.
JANEWAY: It's good to be here.
ADMIRAL PARIS (screen): How did you
JANEWAY: It'll all be in my report, sir.
ADMIRAL PARIS (screen): I look forward to it.
JANEWAY: Thanks for your help, Admiral Janeway.
EMH (voiceover): Sickbay to the bridge.

[Sickbay]
EMH: Doctor to Lieutenant Paris. There's someone here who'd like to say hello.

[Bridge]
JANEWAY: You'd better get down there, Tom.
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Mister Chakotay, the helm.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Set a course for home.