[Bridge]
Q: Captain, thy little centuries go by so rapidly. Perhaps thou will better understand this.
Q: Actually, the issue at stake is patriotism. You must return to your world and put an end to the commies. All it takes is a few good men.
PICARD: What? That nonsense is centuries behind us.
Q: But you can't deny that you're still a dangerous, savage child race.
PICARD: Most certainly I deny it. I agree we still were when humans wore costumes like that, four hundred years ago.
Q: At which time you slaughtered millions in silly arguments about how to divide the resources of your little world. And four hundred years before that you were murdering each other in quarrels over tribal god-images. Since there are no indications that humans will ever change.
PICARD: But even when we wore costumes like that we'd already started to make rapid progress.
Q: Oh yeah? You want to review your rapid progress?
Q: Rapid progress, to where humans learned to control their military with drugs.
WORF: Sir, sickbay reports Lieutenant Torres's condition is better.
Q: Oh, concern for one's fellow comrade. How touching.
WORF: And now a personal request, sir. Permission to clean up the bridge.
TASHA: Lieutenant Worf is right, sir. As Security Chief I can't just stand here and let
PICARD: Yes you can, Lieutenant Yar.
Q: Oh, better. And later, on finally reaching deep space, humans of course found enemies to fight out there too. And to broaden those struggles you again found allies for still more murdering. The same old story, all over again.
PICARD: No. The same old story is the one we're meeting now. Self-righteous life forms who are eager not to learn but to prosecute, to judge anything they don't understand or can't tolerate.
Q: What an interesting idea. Prosecute and judge. Suppose it turns out we understand you humans only too well.
PICARD: We've no fear of what the true facts about us will reveal.
Q: Facts about you? Splendid, splendid, Captain! You're a veritable fountain of good ideas. There are preparations to make, but when we next meet, Captain, we'll proceed exactly as you suggest.
WORF: Sir, respectfully submit our only choice is to fight.
TASHA: Fight, or try to escape.
PICARD: Sense anything, Commander?
TROI: Its mind is much too powerful. Recommend we avoid contact.
PICARD: From this point, no station aboard, repeat no station, for any reason will make use of transmitted signals or intercom. We'll try and take them by surprise. Let's see what this galaxy class starship can do. Lieutenant, inform engine room to prepare for maximum acceleration.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Records search, Data. Results of detaching saucer section at high warp velocity.
DATA: Inadvisable at any warp speed, sir.
PICARD: Search theoretical.
DATA: It is possible, sir. But absolutely no margin for error.
PICARD: Using print-out only, notify all decks to prepare for maximum acceleration. Now hear this, Maximum, you're entitled to know, means that we'll be pushing our engines well beyond safety limits. Our hope is to surprise whatever that is out there, try and outrun it. Our only other option is to tuck tail between our legs and return to Earth as they demand.
WORF: Engine room ready, sir.
TROI: The board shows green, Captain. All go.
PICARD: Stand by. Engage.
WORF: Velocity warp nine point two.
DATA: Heading three five one mark eleven, sir.
PICARD: Steady on that.
TASHA: The hostile is now giving chase, sir. Accelerating fast.
WORF: We're now at warp nine point three, sir, which takes us past the red line, sir.
PICARD: Continue accelerating. Counselor, at this point I'm open to guesses about what we've just met.
TROI: It it felt like something beyond what we'd consider a life form.
PICARD: Beyond?
TROI: Very, very advanced, sir, or certainly very, very different.
WORF: We're at nine point four, sir.
TASHA: Hostile is now beginning to overtake us, sir.
PICARD: Are you sure?
DATA: Hostile's velocity is already warp nine point six, sir. Shall I put them on the main viewer?
PICARD: Reverse angle.
DATA: Magnifying viewer image.
TASHA: Hostile's velocity is nine point seven, sir.
PICARD: Worf, inform the engine room we need more.
DATA: Engine room attempting to comply, sir, but they caution us
PICARD: Go to yellow alert. Arm aft photon torpedoes. Place them on ready status.
TASHA: Torpedoes to ready, sir.
TASHA: Hostile now at warp nine point eight, sir.
WORF: Our velocity is only nine point five, sir.
DATA: Projection, sir. We may be able to match hostile's nine point eight, sir. But at extreme risk.
TASHA: Now reading the hostile at warp nine point nine, sir.
PICARD: Now hear this. Print-out message, urgent, all stations on all decks. Prepare for emergency saucer sever. You will command the saucer section, Lieutenant.
WORF: I am a Klingon, sir. For me to seek escape when my Captain goes into battle.
PICARD: You are a Starfleet officer, Lieutenant.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Make the mark, Data. Note in ship's log that at this startime, I'm transferring command to the battle bridge.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 41153.7. Preparing to detach saucer section. so that families and the majority of the ship's company can seek relative safety while the vessel's stardrive, containing the battle bridge and main armaments, will turn back and confront the mystery that is threatening us.

[Battle Bridge]
PICARD: Lieutenant, your torpedoes must detonate close enough to the hostile to blind it at the moment we separate.
TASHA: Understood, sir.
TROI: All decks acknowledging, sir.
PICARD: Worf, this is the Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: At the moment of separation, we will reverse power just enough to get your saucer section out ahead and clear of us.
WORF: Understood, Captain.

[Battle Bridge]
TASHA: Torpedoes away, sir.
PICARD: Begin countdown. Mark.
DATA: Starship separation in six, five, four, three, two, one.
DATA: Separation is successful, sir.
TASHA: Torpedoes have detonated, sir.
PICARD: Let's come to a stop. Reverse power.
DATA: Reverse power. Decelerating.
PICARD: Dead stop. We'll hold this position and wait for them.
TROI: That will bring them here in just minutes, sir.
TASHA: Will we make a fight of it, Captain? If we can at least damage their ship we'll have a chance
PICARD: Lieutenant, are you recommending we fight a life form that can do all those things? I'd like to hear your advice.
TASHA: I spoke before I thought, sir. We should look for some way to distract them from going after the saucer.
O'BRIEN: All forward motion stopped, sir.
PICARD: Thank you, conn. Commander, signal the following in all languages and on all frequencies. We surrender. State that we are not asking for any terms or conditions.
TROI: Aye, sir. All language forms and frequencies.

[Battle Bridge]
DATA: What is present course, conn?
O'BRIEN: It's what it's been all along, sir. Direct heading to Farpoint Station.
DATA: Confirm. We are on that heading, sir.
O'BRIEN: Know anything about Farpoint Station, sir? Sounds like a fairly dull place.
PICARD: We've heard that we may find it rather interesting. Personal log, Commander William Riker. Stardate 41153.7. The USS Hood has dropped me off at Farpoint Station, where I await the arrival of the new USS Enterprise to which I have been assigned as First Officer. Meanwhile I have been asked to visit the Farpoint Administrator's Office, in the old city.

[Market place]
RIKER: Doctor Crusher!
WESLEY: Mother, it's Commander Riker.
RIKER: Hello, Wes. Enjoying Farpoint Station?
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
RIKER: I saw you. I thought I might join you for a stroll.
CRUSHER: Actually, we were about to do some shopping.
RIKER: I've been meaning to visit the mall myself.
CRUSHER: Of course.
WESLEY: If you're wondering about Mom, Commander Riker, she's not unfriendly. She's just shy around men she doesn't know.
CRUSHER: Wesley! I believe that means he would like us to be friends.
RIKER: I'm willing, Doctor. Although we're not officially part of the Enterprise, I thought there might be something useful we can do while we wait.
CRUSHER: Useful? How, Commander?
RIKER: Investigating some things that I've noticed since I've been here. The last was a piece of fruit.
CRUSHER: Gold would be lovely with this. I am sure, Commander, there are reasons for a first officer to want to demonstrate his energy and alertness to a new captain. But since my duty and interests are outside the command structure
RIKER: Isn't it remarkable they happen to have exactly what you asked for?
CRUSHER: Thank you. I'll take the entire bolt. Send it to our starship when it arrives. Charge to Doctor Crusher.
RIKER: Let's see, where were we?
CRUSHER: I was accusing you of inventing work in order to curry favor with our new captain. I apologize.
WESLEY: Mom, that gold pattern wasn't there.
CRUSHER: Maybe this is something Jean-Luc would like looked into.
RIKER: Jean-Luc Picard? You know the Captain?
WESLEY: When I was little, he brought my father's body home to us.
CRUSHER: Yes, Wes, long, long ago. A pleasure to meet you, Commander. You will excuse us.
RIKER: My pleasure, Doctor. Wes.
WESLEY: Sir?
RIKER: See you on board.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
LAFORGE: Sir, the Enterprise is arriving
RIKER: Is this an official report, Lieutenant?
LAFORGE: Sorry, Commander. Sir, Lieutenant La Forge reporting. The Enterprise arriving, but without the saucer section, sir.
RIKER: Stardrive section only? What happened?
LAFORGE: I don't know, sir. Captain Picard has signaled for you to beam up immediately.
RIKER: Our new captain doesn't waste time. It's a good idea. Thank you, Lieutenant.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Enterprise, this is Commander Riker at Farpoint Station. Standing by to beam up.

[Transporter room]
TASHA: Lieutenant Yar of Security, sir. Captain Picard will see you on the Battle Bridge.

[Corridor]
RIKER: With the saucer gone, I assume something interesting happened on your way here?

[Turbolift]
TASHA: Battle bridge. That's for the Captain to explain, sir.

[Battle bridge]
PICARD: Do we have clearance?
DATA: Aye, sir, into the standard parking orbit.
PICARD: Make it so.
TASHA: Commander Riker, sir.
RIKER: Riker, WT, reporting as ordered, sir.
PICARD: Is the viewer ready?
TASHA: All set up, sir.
PICARD: We'll first bring you up to date on a little adventure we had on our way here, Commander. Then we'll talk. Welcome aboard.
TASHA: This way, sir. (She sits him down in front of a screen and runs a tape of the Q encounter on the Bridge)
Q: Thou art directed to return to thine own solar system immediately. Go back or thou shalt most certainly die. You can't deny you're still a dangerous, savage, child race.
DATA: Message from the saucer module, sir. It will arrive here in fifty one minutes.
PICARD: Inform them we'll connect as soon as they arrive. And sent the Commander to me when he's finished.
TASHA: Yes, sir.
Q: And four hundred years before that, you were murdering each other in quarrels over tribal god images. Since then there are no indications that humans will ever change. There are preparations to make, and when we next meet, Captain, we'll proceed exactly as you suggest.
RIKER: He calls that a little adventure?

[Battle ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Not exactly a run of the mill happening, Captain.
PICARD: It seems we're alive only because we have been placed on probation. A very serious kind of probation. Go.
DATA: The saucer module is now entering orbit with us, sir.
PICARD: Acknowledged. Commander Riker will conduct a manual docking. Picard out.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: You've reported in, haven't you? You are qualified?
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Then I mean now, Commander.

[Battle bridge]
DATA: They say you will be doing this manually, sir. No automation.
RIKER: As ordered.
RIKER: Velocity to one half meter per second. Adjust pitch angle, negative three degrees. Watch your roll angle, conn. All stations, prepare for reconnection. Thrusters to station keeping. All velocity zero. Her inertia should do the job now. Lock up now.

[Ready room]
PICARD: A fairly routine maneuver but you handled it quite well.
RIKER: Thank you, sir. I hope I showed some promise.
PICARD: I do have some questions for you though.
RIKER: Yes, sir, I thought you might.
PICARD: I see in your file that Captain DeSoto thinks very highly of you. One curious thing, however, you refused to let him beam down to Altair Three.
RIKER: In my opinion, sir, Altair Three was too dangerous to risk exposing the Captain.
PICARD: I see. A Captain's rank means nothing to you.
RIKER: Rather the reverse, sir. But a Captain's life means a great deal to me.
PICARD: Isn't it just possible that you don't get to be a Starfleet Captain without knowing whether it's safe to beam down or not? Isn't it a little presumptuous of a first officer to second guess his captain's judgment?
RIKER: Permission to speak candidly, sir?
PICARD: Always.
RIKER: Having been a first officer yourself, you know that assuming that responsibility must by definition include the safety of the captain. I have no problem with following any rules you lay down, short of compromising your safety.
PICARD: And you don't intend to back off that position?
RIKER: No, sir,
PICARD: One further thing. A special favor.
RIKER: Anything, sir.
PICARD: Using the same kind of strength you showed with Captain DeSoto, I would appreciate it if you can keep me from making an ass of myself with children.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: I'm not a family man, Riker, and yet, Starfleet has given me a ship with children aboard.
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: And I don't feel comfortable with children. But, since a captain needs an image of geniality, you're to see that's what I project.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Welcome to the Enterprise, Commander Riker.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Naturally I've heard of your case. The visor implants you wear
LAFORGE: Is a remarkable piece of bio-electronic engineering by which I quote see much of the EM spectrum ranging from simple heat and infrared through radio waves et cetera, et cetera, and forgive me if I've said and listened to this a thousand times before.
CRUSHER: You've been blind all your life?
LAFORGE: I was born this way.
CRUSHER: And you've felt pain all the years that you've used this?
LAFORGE: They say it's because I use my natural sensors in different ways.
CRUSHER: Well, I see two choices. The first is painkillers.
LAFORGE: Which would affect how this works. No. Choice number two?
CRUSHER: Exploratory surgery. Desensitize the brain areas troubling you.
LAFORGE: Same difference. No, thank you, Doctor.
CRUSHER: I understand.
LAFORGE: See you.

[Bridge]
WORF: Yes sir?
RIKER: Where will I find Commander Data?
WORF: Commander Data is on special assignment, sir. He's using our shuttlecraft to transfer an admiral over to the Hood.
RIKER: An admiral?
WORF: He's been aboard all day, sir, checking over medical layout.
RIKER: Why a shuttlecraft? Why wouldn't he just beam over?
WORF: I suppose he could, sir, but the Admiral's a rather remarkable man.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Did you signal the Hood, Commander Riker?
RIKER: Your exact message. Bon voyage mon ami.
PICARD: What was my answer, computer?
Q: You're wasting time, Captain. Or did you think I was gone?
PICARD: Lieutenant! Do you intend to blast a hole through the viewer? If the purpose of this is to test humans, your honor, we must proceed in our own way.
Q: You are dilatory. You have twenty four hours. Any further delay and you risk summary judgment against you, Captain.
WORF: Sorry, sir
RIKER: You reacted fast, Mister Worf.
PICARD: But futilely.
WORF: I will learn to do better, sir.
PICARD: Of course you will. We've a long voyage ahead of us.
RIKER: What do we do now, Captain? With them monitoring our every move and every word.
PICARD: We do exactly what we would do if this Q never existed. If we're going to be damned, let's be damned for what we really are.
PICARD: Personal log, stardate 41153.8. Of the twenty four hours Q allotted us to prove ourselves, eleven have now passed without incident. And yet I cannot forget Q's prediction that we will face some critical test.

[Ready room]
RIKER: This planet's interior heat provides an abundance of geothermal energy, sir. But it's about all this world does offer.
PICARD: And it's your belief that this is what made it possible for them to construct this base to Starfleet standards?
RIKER: Yes sir. We have to assume that they've been trading their surplus energy for the construction materials used here. According to our ship's scans, many of the materials used are not found on this world.
PICARD: Perhaps it's like those incidents you describe in your report as almost magical attempts to please us.
RIKER: Those events did happen, sir.
PICARD: None of it suggests anything threatening. If only every life form had as much desire to please. Ready to beam down? I'm looking forward to meeting this Groppler Zorn.
RIKER: I have a feeling there's more to it than just pleasing us, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: As if it's something Q is doing to trick us? Over here. I've asked the Counselor to join us in this meeting. May I introduce our new First Officer, Commander William Riker. Commander Riker, this is our ship's Counselor, Deanna Troi.
TROI: Do you remember what I taught you, Imzadi? Can you still sense my thoughts?
TROI: A pleasure, Commander.
RIKER: Likewise, Counselor.
PICARD: Have the two of you met before?
RIKER: We have, sir.
PICARD: Excellent. I consider it important for my key officers know each other's abilities.
TROI: We do, sir. We do.
TROI: I, too, would never say goodbye, Imzadi.

[Forest]
RIKER: Hello?
DATA: Marvelous. How easily humans do that. I still need much practice.
RIKER: There are some puzzles down on the planet that the Captain wants answered. He suggests that I take you with me on the away team that I'll be leading.
DATA: I shall endeavor to function adequately, sir.
RIKER: Yes. When the captain suggested you, I looked up your record.
DATA: Yes, sir. A wise procedure, sir, always.
RIKER: Then your rank of Lieutenant Commander is honorary?
DATA: No, sir. Starfleet class of '78. Honors in probability mechanics and exobiology.
RIKER: Your file says that you're an
DATA: Machine, Correct, sir. Does that trouble you?
RIKER: To be honest, yes, a little.
DATA: Understood, sir. Prejudice is very human.
RIKER: Now that does trouble me. Do you consider yourself superior to us?
DATA: I am superior, sir, in many ways, but I would gladly give it up to be human.
RIKER: Nice to meet you, Pinocchio. A joke.
DATA: Ah. Intriguing.
RIKER: You're going to be an interesting companion, Mister Data.
DATA: This woodland pattern is quite popular, sir. Perhaps because it duplicates Earth so well. Coming here almost makes me feel human myself.
RIKER: I didn't believe these simulations could be this real.
DATA: Much of it is real, sir. If the transporters can convert our bodies to an energy beam, then back to the original pattern again
RIKER: Yes, of course. And these rocks and vegetation have much simpler patterns.
DATA: Correct, sir. The rear wall.
RIKER: I can't see it.
DATA: We're right next to it.
RIKER: Incredible!
WESLEY: Commander Riker!
WESLEY: Commander Riker, isn't this great? This is one of the simpler patterns. They've got thousands more. Some you just can't believe.
RIKER: Careful, the next rock is loose!
RIKER: Wesley!
WESLEY: Wow!

[Corridor]
RIKER: Mister Data has agreed to join me on the away team, Captain.
PICARD: Very good, Commander.
WESLEY: Sir, maybe I should get something to wipe this water up.
PICARD: Good idea.

[Sickbay]
WESLEY: There's a low gravity gymnasium, too. It'd be hard to get bored on this ship.
CRUSHER: Good.
WESLEY: Mom, could you get me a look at the Bridge?
CRUSHER: That's against the Captain's standing orders.
WESLEY: Are you afraid of the Captain too?
CRUSHER: I certainly am not.
WESLEY: But Captain Picard is a pain, isn't he?
CRUSHER: Your father liked him very much. Great explorers are often lonely. No chance to have a family.
WESLEY: Just a look, at the Bridge. I'll stay in the turbolift when the doors open. I won't get off.
CRUSHER: You are asking for trouble, Wes. We'll see what we can do.

[Market place]
TASHA: Recommend that someone could begin by examining the underside of the station, sir.
TROI: Our sensors do show some passages, sir. Perhaps you and I?
RIKER: Tasha, you and the Counselor. And, Geordi, I want your eyes down there. You and I will start with topside.
RIKER: Have you noticed anything unusual?
DATA: I can't see as well as Geordi, sir, but so far the material seems rather very ordinary.
RIKER: Construction records?
DATA: Construction records show this to be almost identical to that which Starfleet uses.
TASHA: Team Leader.

[Passageway]
TASHA: We've found something interesting. We're in a passageway directly under the station, sir.
LAFORGE: But these tunnel walls are something I've never seen before, sir.

[Marketplace]
RIKER: How are you examining them?
LAFORGE: In every way.

[Passageway]
LAFORGE: Microscopically, thermally, electromagnetically. None of it is familiar.
RIKER: What about you, Troi?
TROI: Sir, I've avoided opening my mind. Whatever I felt in the Groppler's office became very uncomfortable.

[Marketplace]
RIKER: I'm sorry, Counselor, but you must. We need more information.

[Passageway]
TROI: Pain. Such pain! Pain!

[Marketplace]
RIKER: Hang on, I'm coming. Enterprise, lock us onto her signal.

[Passageway]
RIKER: I'm sorry. Close your mind to the pain.
TROI: Unhappiness. Terrible despair.
RIKER: Who?
TROI: I don't know. No life form anything like us.
RIKER: What in the hell kind of place is this? Geordi, what do you see?
LAFORGE: Well, it's of no material I recognize, sir, or have even heard of.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I asked if you knew who it is. You mentioned the Ferengi Alliance to me.

[Passageway]
TASHA: Pain again?
RIKER: Troi, you've been at it enough.
TROI: No, I feel close to an answer of some kind.
DATA: Commander, something down here is shielding our communicators.
TROI: Yes, that's exactly the feeling I've been reading. As if someone doesn't want us to be in touch with our ship.
RIKER: Come on, let's get to the surface.

[Passageway]
TROI: Those stairs are where we entered down here, sir.
LAFORGE: At this point, it becomes ordinary stone, sir. Matching what's above.
TASHA: My God! Was that a phaser blast?
DATA: Negative. But something similar.
RIKER: You, Tasha, and Geordi will beam up to the ship. Now, come on, I want to see exactly what's happening.
TROI: Don't. If you should be hurt
RIKER: You have your orders, Lieutenant. Carry them out.
TROI: Yes sir, I'm sorry, sir. Enterprise, three to beam up.

[Bandi city]
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise, come in.
PICARD: Commander Riker, come in. Where are you?
RIKER: With Data, on the edge of the old city, sir. It's being hit hard, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: And Farpoint Station? Any damage there?
RIKER: Negative on damage to Farpoint, sir. Whoever they are, it seems they're carefully avoiding hitting the station.
PICARD: It's from an unidentified vessel that's entered into orbit with us here.

[Bandi city]
PICARD: No ID, no answer to our signals.
RIKER: The old Bandi city's being hit hard, sir. Many casualties very probable.
PICARD: Understand, Commander.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Would you object to your Captain ordering a clearly illegal kidnapping?

[Bandi city]
RIKER: No objection, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Groppler Zorn may have the answers we need. Get him. Bring him here.

[Bandi city]
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: They're forcing a difficult decision on me, Counselor.
TROI: But I doubt protecting the Bandi would violate the Prime Directive. True, they are not actual allies, but
PICARD: We are in the midst of diplomatic discussions with them. Lieutenant, lock phasers on that vessel.
TASHA: Phasers locked on, Captain.
Q: Typical. So typical. Savage lifeforms never follow even their own rules.
PICARD: Get off my bridge!
Q: Interesting, that order about phasers.
TASHA: Standing by on phasers, Captain.
Q: Please, don't let me interfere. Use your weapons.
PICARD: We've no idea who is on that vessel. My order was a routine safety precaution.
Q: Really? No idea of what it represents? The meaning of that vessel is as plain, as plain as the noses on your ugly little primate faces. And if you were truly civilized, Captain, wouldn't you be doing something about the casualties happening down there?
PICARD: Captain to CMO.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Are you reading any of this?
CRUSHER: Medical teams already preparing to beam down, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Compliments on that, Doctor. Any questions? Starfleet people are trained to render aid and assistance whenever
Q: But not trained in clear thinking.
PICARD: Let's consider your thoughts. You call us savages and yet you knew those people down there would be killed. It is your conduct that is uncivilized.
WORF: Sir, they're firing on the planet again.
PICARD: Go to maneuvering jets. Position us between that vessel and the planet. Force fields full on.
WORF: Aye, sir. Impulse power to We have no ship control, sir. It's gone!

[Bandi city]
DATA: Are you undamaged?
RIKER: Yes. You?
DATA: All systems operating.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: Can I help you, Captain?
PICARD: I didn't want you thinking me harsh. Cold blooded.
CRUSHER: Why oh why would I ever think that.
PICARD: I didn't welcome you aboard personally, professionally. I made you come to me on the Bridge. I yelled at your son. Who, as you pointed out, was quite correct. He does seem to have a very good grasp of starship operations.
CRUSHER: You've just won this mother's heart, Captain.
PICARD: Ah, but, now, your assignment here. I would consider and approve you a transfer for you.
CRUSHER: Oh. You consider me unqualified?
PICARD: Hardly. Your service record shows you're just the Chief Medical Officer I want.
CRUSHER: Then you must object to me personally.
PICARD: I'm trying to be considerate of your feelings, Doctor. For you to work with a commanding officer who would continually remind you of a terrible personal tragedy.
CRUSHER: If I had had any objections to serving with you, I wouldn't have requested this assignment, Captain.
PICARD: You requested this posting?
CRUSHER: My feelings about my husband's death will have no effect on the way I serve you, this vessel, or this mission.
PICARD: Ah. Then, welcome aboard, Doctor.
RIKER: Riker to Picard. We're ready to beam over, sir.
PICARD: I, er, I hope we can be friends?
CRUSHER: Thank you.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Phasers on stun. Energize.

[Alien vessel]
DATA: Most interesting, sir.
TASHA: It's much the same construction we saw in the underground tunnel.
DATA: But no sound of power. No equipment.
TASHA: How does this ship run?
RIKER: What is it, Troi? Is it the same as you felt down there?
TROI: No. This is much more powerful. Full of anger! Hate!
TASHA: Toward us?
TROI: No. It's directed down toward the old Bandi city.
DATA: Most intriguing again, sir. The place that this vessel was firing upon was not the Farpoint starbase, but the home of those who constructed. Sorry, sir. I seem to be commenting on everything.
RIKER: Good. Don't stop, my friend.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Enterprise, Riker. This is turning out to be a very long tunnel or corridor, sir.

[Alien vessel]
RIKER: No ship's crew in sight. No sign of mechanism or circuitry. No controls or read-outs. This is nothing like any vessel I've seen before.
TROI: Groppler Zorn, sir. A great fear just ahead.

[Bridge]
TROI: There's a different feeling here than in the tunnel. Very different.

[Bridge]
PICARD: All stations?
DATA: Ready for departure, sir.
PICARD: Some problem, Riker?
RIKER: Just hoping this isn't the usual way our missions will go, sir.
PICARD: Oh no, Number One. I'm sure most will be much more interesting. Let's see what's out there. Engage.

[Tsiolkovsky]
RIKER: Cover the ship as planned. Move out.
DATA: Indications of what humans would call a wild party?
RIKER: Their Bridge. If this thing works, be sure to record everything.
RIKER: You were right. Somebody blew the hatch. They were all sucked out into space.
DATA: Correction, sir, that's blown out.
RIKER: Thank you, Data.
DATA: A common mistake, sir,
TASHA: Commander Riker, Lieutenant Yar. Location Engineering. Ten people here, sir, all frozen. No vital signs.
RIKER: Frozen? How?
TASHA: It looks like someone has been playing with the environmental controls, sir. Just let all the heat bleed away into space.

[Tsiolkovsky Crew Quarters]
LAFORGE: Sir, Lieutenant La Forge in the crew quarters. Something in here. (He finds a door which is trying to close. He opens it and a corpse falls out into his arms.

[Tsiolkovsky]
RIKER: Riker to Captain, I have a report for you, sir.
PICARD: Picard here.
RIKER: They're all dead.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Apparently some of them were apparently blown out the emergency hatches.
PICARD: But there were eighty people on that ship, Number One.
RIKER: Yes sir.

[Tsiolkovsky]
RIKER: As I said, all dead.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We are downloading the research information gathered on the collapsing star nearby. I am concerned at being in such close orbit, but the Tsiolkovsky's research records will no doubt predict the time of the star's final collapse.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: I can't find anything unusual in any of the tricorder readings they've sent over, Captain.
PICARD: Give me a theory, Doctor. Anything. Madness? Mass hysteria? Delusion?
TROI: Any or all, Captain.
PICARD: All right. Let's bring the away team back. Set the transporter to maximum decontamination, and then full examination and observation when they're here.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: If you were any more perfect, Data, I'd write you up in a Starfleet medical textbook.
DATA: I am already listed in several bio-mechanical texts, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Yes of course. You're next, Lieutenant.
CRUSHER: Normal all across. Except, why are you perspiring, Lieutenant?
LAFORGE: I suppose because you have it too hot in here. What else would it be?
RIKER: That doesn't sound like you, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Well, maybe it's not. Maybe she threw her voice. Hey, it was a joke.
CRUSHER: Of course, but I would like to run one or two more tests on you, Lieutenant.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Sickbay to Bridge,
PICARD: Picard here. Go ahead, Doctor.
CRUSHER: I'm confining Lieutenant La Forge to Sickbay until further notice.
PICARD: Do we have a problem, Doctor?

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: I don't know yet.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Data, I need help in locating some library computer information.
DATA: Specifics, sir?
RIKER: All I have is a vague memory of reading somewhere about someone taking a shower in his or her clothing.
DATA: Ah. The body Geordi discovered.
RIKER: I believe it may have happened before.
DATA: To someone, somewhere.
RIKER: This ought to be easy for someone written up in bio-mechanical texts.
DATA: About that, sir. Did the Doctor believe I was boasting?
RIKER: Probably. This may take some time.
DATA: At least several hours. But what I said was a statement of fact. Perhaps she will look it up.
RIKER: You can depend on it.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Geordi!

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: Security. Lieutenant La Forge just left Sickbay while I was in my office.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: He doesn't have his communicator. It is very important that we find him.
TASHA: Security team alert, pick up Lieutenant La Forge. He just left Sickbay moments ago. Captain, anything further?
PICARD: Affirmative. Make it a ship-wide search, Lieutenant.

[Crusher's quarters]
WESLEY: It's a model of the same kind of tractor beam our ship uses with a few ideas of my own added.
LAFORGE: So that's your science project, huh? Wes, you're really something.
WESLEY: And since the Captain won't let me on the Bridge, I use this to imagine I'm there.
PICARD: Take the helm, Mister Crusher. Set a course for thirty seven mark one hundred eighty. Warp six.
LAFORGE: It's the Captain's voice.
WESLEY: It's pieced together from words he's used on the intercom. With this, I can pretend he's ordering me to take the Enterprise anywhere. And listen to this,
PICARD: Chief Engineer, report to the Bridge. Commander Riker, report to the Bridge. Doctor Crusher, report to the Bridge.
WESLEY: What do you think?
LAFORGE: I think the Captain's lucky you're on his side.
WESLEY: But he still won't let me on the Bridge. And there's nothing there I don't understand.
LAFORGE: I wish I understood myself that well.
WESLEY: Are you okay?
LAFORGE: No, Suddenly I seem to be burning up inside. It's hot in here.

[Observation lounge]
TASHA: Geordi? Geordi? Lieutenant Yar in the Observation lounge. Send a team here now. Medical's been worried about you.
LAFORGE: Help me. Help me to not to give in to the wild things coming into my mind,
TASHA: Geordi, my job is security,
LAFORGE: Tasha, please.
TASHA: Alright. Alright, helping is more important. Geordi, how can I help you?
LAFORGE: Help me to see. Like you do.
TASHA: But you already see better than I can.
LAFORGE: I see more. But more isn't better.
TASHA: Geordi, please put
LAFORGE: I want to see in shallow, dim, beautiful human ways.
TASHA: We'll talk about it, Geordi. Right now I'm going to take you to Sickbay. All right?
LAFORGE: Yeah.
TASHA: Okay. Good.

[Sickbay]
TASHA: And then we got him down to Sickbay so Doctor Crusher could examine him.
PICARD: He wasn't violent?
TASHA: No, sir. He was very upset. He kept talking about wanting normal vision.
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant.
CRUSHER: According to our medical readouts, there's still nothing wrong with him. He looks like he's running a temperature but every instrument we have says he's not.
PICARD: Doctor, every person on that ship over there died. Is there any chance that whatever did it is loose on my ship?
CRUSHER: If you mean a disease, sir, I'd say there's no chance of it. We used full decontamination, we examined every team member very carefully,
PICARD: The entire crew somehow managed to kill themselves, Doctor. If it's not a disease, what else could have made them do that?
CRUSHER: The obvious alternatives would be in areas of insanity and severe emotional upset. Troi, do you feel anything unusual in the lieutenant?
PICARD: Security just told me that he was longing for normal eyesight. That's a sudden yearning for that.
TROI: Since his records show no previous mention of that, the fact that it's happened now could be important. But all I sense from him is confusion. If I didn't know better, I'd say he was intoxicated.
CRUSHER: Our tests would have shown that. Also any other signs of drugs, hallucinogens or other contaminants.

[Bridge]
DATA: Can you provide more information, sir? Seeking an instance of someone showering in his or her clothing is
RIKER: I know. It's like looking for a needle in a haystack.
DATA: Why should anyone wish to expend his time in such a search?
RIKER: Correction, Data, I should have said proverbial needle in a haystack.
DATA: Ah, a human proverb! As in folklore, or an historical allusion, or tribal memories
RIKER: Historical. That's it. I remember I was reading a history of all the past starships named Enterprise.
DATA: Enterprise history. Aberrant behavior. Medical cross reference,
RIKER: Captain, I believe we've have the answer to what happened over there.
PICARD: The Constitution class Enterprise, Captain James T. Kirk commanding.
RIKER: Similar conditions. They were monitoring a planet that was breaking up, not a collapsing star as in this case. But there were the same huge shifts in gravity,
PICARD: Which somehow resulted in complex strings of water molecules which acquired carbon from the body and acted on the brain like alcohol. Data, download this information to Medical immediately.
DATA: Aye, sir. Downloading.
PICARD: Fascinating! The entire crew going out of control,
RIKER: Like intoxication, but worse. Judgment almost completely impaired,
PICARD: Until they found this formula, barely in time. Picard to Doctor Crusher, come in.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: This is Crusher. Go ahead Captain.
PICARD: You can relax, Doctor.

[Bridge]
PICARD: The answer to all of this is feeding into your medical banks right now. Including a cure.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: Are you certain, Captain?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Absolutely.

[Troi's Quarters]
TROI: Tasha? What are you doing?
TASHA: I need your advice. That's why I came to your quarters.
TROI: Of course. Anything I can do
TASHA: On clothes. You always wear such beautiful clothes off duty. And your hair always looks so nice. I want to change my image. What do you think about this? Or this one?
TROI: It's not for you. Tasha, I feel you're very uncertain. Yhat you're fighting something. What is it?
TASHA: Never mind. I'll find what I need myself. Ship's stores will have it.
TROI: Tasha? Tasha, wait.

[Bridge]
TROI: Troi to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Picard here.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Sir, I think Tasha's been infected too.

[Bridge]
TROI: She just left my quarters,
PICARD: Counselor, it's not actually an infection.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Yes, sir. It's more like an intoxication. Nut whatever it is, she's got it.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Thank you, Counselor. Number One, it seems our Security Chief has the equivalent of a snootful.
DATA: Inquiry, sir. Snootful?
PICARD: Forget it.

[Sickbay]
WESLEY: Hey, Mom, look what I can do.
WESLEY: I've been able to widen and strengthen the beam, just like I told you last night.
CRUSHER: Do me a favor, Wes. There's something happening on this ship. Just to be safe, I'd like you to stay in our quarters until it's solved.
WESLEY: Sure, Mom, sure. Your wish is my command.
CRUSHER: Now, Wes.
WESLEY: Okay, but you could be stunting my emotional growth, you realize that. Why is it so hot in here, anyway?
PICARD: Picard to Crusher.
CRUSHER: Crusher here.
PICARD: Have you made a test injection yet? We're getting indications that this condition is spreading.
CRUSHER: No test yet, Captain, but very soon.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, another forty-one minutes will see the information from the Tsiolkovsky downloaded to us.
PICARD: Why so slow?
DATA: Slow, sir? The Tsiolkovsky has been eight months in accumulating it.
PICARD: How much danger from that star? Worse case.
DATA: Like a full collapse, sir? Any stellar material it threw this way we could still outrun on half impulse power.

[Tasha's Quarters]
DATA: Lieutenant Yar?
TASHA: Here, Data. You wanted me?
DATA: Captain Picard ordered me to escort you to Sickbay, Lieutenant.
TASHA: Did he say when?
DATA: I am sure he meant now. So, you need time to get into uniform.
TASHA: But I got out of uniform for you, Data. Do you know how old I was when I was abandoned?
DATA: Chronological age? No, I am afraid I am not familiar with
TASHA: Five. Five years old, but I survived. I learned how to stay alive, how to avoid the rape gangs. I was fifteen before I escaped.
DATA: I am sorry. I did not know,
TASHA: And what I want now is gentleness. And joy. And love. From you, Data. You are fully functional, aren't you?
DATA: Of course, but
TASHA: How fully?
DATA: In every way, of course. I am programmed in multiple techniques, a broad variety of pleasuring,
TASHA: Oh, you jewel! That's exactly what I hoped.

[Engineering]
PICARD: What have you learned, Number One?
RIKER: Captain, the ship's engines are cut off from the bridge. The Assistant Chief Engineer pulled out the isolinear optical chips from command. All engines are offline. Wesley has hooked some kind of tractor beam to ship's power and he has it aimed at the door. We can't get past to get at the computer.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Can you short out the power?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Do it!

[Engineering]
TROI: Bill.
RIKER: Deanna, what?
TROI: So many minds on this ship, all free. Released,
RIKER: Deanna.
TROI: I can feel them all. What they want, what they feel. It's a side of humans I've never felt before.
RIKER: Come on, I'm getting you to Sickbay.
TROI: Wouldn't you rather be alone with me? With me in your mind?

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: The medical records we found say this works almost instantly.
LAFORGE: It's not fair, Doc. I've never seen a rainbow, sunset, sunrise. This is going to help me? Help me see like you?
RIKER: Doctor Crusher?

[Crusher's office]
RIKER: Deanna needs your help.
CRUSHER: The formula from the old Enterprise didn't work.
RIKER: What?
CRUSHER: This water-carbon complex may induce the same symptoms, but somehow it's different. Maybe it's mutated. But I've got to isolate it in order to analyze it,
RIKER: We don't have that kind of time.
CRUSHER: You brought Deanna in.
RIKER: She's infected with
CRUSHER: Then you touched her! Oh, God. And you touched me. Wait! I've got to quarantine you.
RIKER: If I don't get the command computer back online soon, none of this, whatever this is, won't matter. We'll all be dead.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. It is no longer an inconvenient, childish prank. Young Wesley Crusher, admittedly a victim of the Tsiolkovsky infection, is now in control of my starship.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Wes, this is Captain Picard. Do you see me?
WESLEY: Yes sir?
PICARD: You will now return control of this vessel to the Bridge where it belongs. At once.
WESLEY: I'm sorry, sir. Why don't you just tell me what you want done and I'll do it.
PICARD: Because ship captains control their own vessels, young man!
WESLEY: But, sir, you don't do it yourself. You give the orders, but someone else does it. What's wrong with giving me the orders to do it?
WORF: Captain, getting unusual readings now from the dwarf star.
PICARD: Stand by a moment on that. Wesley. Wes. Are you aware that you're acting strangely, that a kind of infection was brought over from the Tsiolkovsky which acts like intoxication?
WESLEY: Are you saying that's why I feel so so hot? So strange?
PICARD: That's a very adult bit of reasoning, Wes,
WESLEY: So you mean I'm drunk! I feel strange, but also good.
PICARD: Because, because you've lost the capacity for self-judgment. Now, alcohol does this, Wesley. But this contaminant we've brought back from the Tsiolkovsky does it even more so.
WESLEY: What would you do if you got your ship back?
PICARD: Oh, it's very important I do, Wesley, because I must immediately lock a tractor beam onto the Tsiolkovsky, then tow it out of,
WESLEY: Tractor beams are my specialty, Skipper! I'll contact you when that's done. Wesley out!
PICARD: Wesley! Wesley!
PICARD: Conn, where are you headed?
WORF: Sir. The star. It's beginning to collapse.
PICARD: What the hell is happening in Engineering?

[Crusher's Office]
CRUSHER: Oh no! I must find the answer. I've got to find the answer.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, tractor beam. We just locked onto the Tsiolkovsky.
PICARD: Captain to. Wesley. Wesley Crusher, come in!
PICARD: Ah, Data. At least you're functioning.
DATA: Fully, Captain.
PICARD: Data, intoxication is a human condition. Your mind is different, it's not the same as
DATA: We are more alike than unlike, my dear Captain. I have pores. Humans have pores. I have fingerprints. Humans have fingerprints. My chemical nutrients are like your blood. If you prick me, do I not leak?
PICARD: Doctor,
CRUSHER: Captain, can I see you in your Ready Room? It's a private matter. No, actually it's an urgent one.
PICARD: But. Damn it.

[Ready Room]
PICARD: Now, Doctor
CRUSHER: I believe I'm infected myself, Captain.
PICARD: Do you know what the infection is? Come on, quickly.
CRUSHER: Sorry. It is definitely like alcohol intoxication. The same lack of good judgment, For example, right now I find you extremely, extremely, Of course we haven't time for that sort of thing,
PICARD: What sort of thing?
CRUSHER: Oh God, would I love to show you.
PICARD: Doctor, there must be a cure. Some formula, similar to the old one,
CRUSHER: Damn it, damn it, Captain. My dear Captain.
CRUSHER: You owe me something. You do realize that, don't you? I'm a woman. I haven't the comfort of a husband. A man.
PICARD: Not now, Doctor. Please.

[Bridge]
WORF: Bridge to Riker, Urgent.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Riker here.
WORF: Sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, regret to inform you that the Captain appears to be infected. And Data.

[Bridge]
WORF: What we're seeing, sir, is a huge chunk of the star's surface blown away, heading for us.
PICARD: Take us
RIKER: Are you alright, sir?
PICARD: Worf, you know what to do. Take us er
RIKER: Take us out of here.
PICARD: Right.
WORF: Controls are still offline, sir.
PICARD: Override.
WORF: Same result, sir.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Wes, come in please.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Wesley Crusher, this is Riker. Come in.

[Bridge]
RIKER: The star is still collapsing. We're directly in the path of

[Bridge]
PICARD: What, what's that? What's that, Wesley?

[Engineering]
WESLEY: Well, they're just simple isolinear chips, sir, to Data anyway. He can shuffle them like cards.
RIKER: Come on, Data, hurry. Ship's log, First Officer Riker. Enterprise will be destroyed unless it can be moved out of the path of the star material hurtling toward us. Our only hope is for Lieutenant Commander Data, in the time we have left, to regain his senses and reconnect engine power to the Bridge.

[Engineering]
DATA: Nice to see you, Wesley.
WESLEY: Hi, Mister Data.
RIKER: No time for courtesy. Get the damned control chips back in place, in the correct order. Now!
WESLEY: It's like a game. How fast can you do it?
DATA: Ah, a game!
WESLEY: I think I can switch this to main viewer, sir,
RIKER: Data, we've got eight or nine minutes at most. Can you finish by then?
DATA: No, this will take slightly more time than we have, sir.
RIKER: Damn it, no. I can't afford to get this.

[Crusher's Office]
PICARD: Beverly.
CRUSHER: Yes, Jean-Luc?
PICARD: You will address me as Captain.
CRUSHER: Captain? Well then, my dear Captain, you will address me as Chief Medical Officer or Doctor.
PICARD: I will? That's true. I started off calling you Beverly, and of course, naturally, you. I'm still not thinking straight.
CRUSHER: Likewise. Where the hell was I headed?
PICARD: If that's something you were going to test,
CRUSHER: Yes, on Geordi. Come here.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I made this a broader based remedy. I hope. But it's still close to the formula from the old Enterprise records.
PICARD: Decades ago, light years away,
CRUSHER: But almost exactly the same conditions as here.
LAFORGE: Wow! What was in that, Doctor? My head's beginning to clear,
CRUSHER: Come here. Here, take this to Engineering. I'll make up more hypos for the others.
PICARD: Okay, Bev.

[Engineering]
RIKER: We're not going to make it, Captain. If we had just a minute or so.
WESLEY: Then reversing power leads, back through the force activator. Repulser beam hard against Tsiolkovsky. Don't you see? It's giving us a push off. The extra time we need.
RIKER: We're pushing away.
RIKER: Bridge, engage engines!

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Captain , something seemed to move us aside at the last minute.
WORF: Do we owe our thanks to Commander Data, sir?
PICARD: Yes, and Wesley may have given us a few seconds, too.
WORF: Did he say Wesley? The boy?
CRUSHER: He said Wesley.

[Engineering]
RIKER: It's only fair to mention Wesley in a log entry, sir.
PICARD: Fair's fair. And let's credit his science teacher, too.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Congratulations, sir.
PICARD: To many people.
TASHA: Data. I'm only going to tell you this just once. It never happened.
PICARD: I put it to you all. I think we shall end up with a fine crew, if we avoid temptation. So, Number One, let's go to our next job.
RIKER: Aye, sir. Helm, prepare for warp three. Heading two hundred and ninety four mark thirty seven.
LAFORGE: Warp three, heading two hundred and ninety four mark thirty seven, sir.
RIKER: Engage.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Standard orbit, sir.
RIKER: Lieutenant Yar is calling from Cargo Bay One, sir. Standing by to beam Ligonian welcoming party aboard.
PICARD: On our way. You have the helm, Mister Data.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Cargo One. This should be an interesting experience.
RIKER: Agreed. Not only are they closely humanoid, but their history has remarkable similarities to ours.
TROI: A highly structured society. and they're exceedingly proud.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Shields up, photon torpedoes activated, sir.
PICARD: What comm. contact have we had with them?
DATA: With their orbital control station, sir.
PICARD: Make contact there and on all hailing frequencies. This is the Enterprise to Lutan and the Ligonian government. You have committed an unfriendly act. We insist that you reply immediately.
RIKER: Photon torpedoes ready, sir.
PICARD: Set them for a display blast a thousand meters short of the planet's surface.
RIKER: Set.
PICARD: Fire.
RIKER: Do we know the source of their transporter beam?
LAFORGE: Our own transporter people have tried to trace it, sir, but to no effect.
DATA: It reads similar to early Starfleet efforts but uses the Heglenian shift to convert matter and energy in different. Which is actually not important at this time.
PICARD: This is Captain Picard of the Enterprise with a message to Lutan, whom I have so far acknowledged as a friend. But you have now committed what our laws regard as an attack upon us. Since you have visited our vessel, you most certainly know the power of it. We insist that you reply to this message. Opinion, Counselor. Will they injure Lieutenant Yar?
TROI: I believe not, sir. They seem mainly curious. In the case of Lutan, however, I did feel other needs.
RIKER: What kind of needs?
TROI: Some sexual attraction from all the males. Lieutenant Yar is physically very attractive. But with Lutan I felt something else. Something more like avarice or ambition.
PICARD: Other comments?
DATA: If I may, sir. One of the things about them in the briefing studies was their respect for patience.
RIKER: Strongly emphasized. And you can see it in the precise, ritualistic way they do things. I'm worried about Lieutenant Yar too, sir, but maybe we should sit and wait them out. Stardate 41235.32. I am concerned. Over a full day of waiting with no response from Lutan. We are now testing whether they are aware of our sensors probing them. So far, we believe we have pinpointed Lutan's government compound.

[Ready Room]
CRUSHER: The vaccine, sir.
PICARD: Yes, Doctor?
CRUSHER: The vaccine. I'm a physician, I've seen death, but not on the scale this could mean.
PICARD: You were testing if you can replicate the vaccine.
CRUSHER: And we can't. The sample works fine when used as an injection, but it becomes unstable when we try to replicate it. You must get the vaccine from the planet, Captain. As much as you can. Immediately.
PICARD: I'm aware of that, Doctor.
CRUSHER: You've never had to watch a patient die from this disease.
PICARD: That's true. But I have seen my share of death.
CRUSHER: Damn. Where are the calluses we doctors are supposed to grow over our feelings?
PICARD: Perhaps the good ones never get them.
CRUSHER: May I speak about my son, Wesley?
PICARD: What? Oh, yes. Alright.
CRUSHER: He seems quite interested in starship operations. And speaking as a mother, of course, he seems quite knowledgeable.
PICARD: Well, yes, speaking as a mother.
CRUSHER: He's on the turbolift. You'll remember you ordered him to stay off of the Bridge.

[Tasha's room]
TASHA: Captain. Deanna.
PICARD: Did you have any idea, Lieutenant, that Lutan was suddenly going to announce that he wanted you for his First One?
TASHA: No, sir.
PICARD: Tell me what you know about this?
TASHA: Nothing, sir.
TROI: But it was a thrill. Lutan is such, such a basic male image and having him say he wants you
TASHA: Yes, of course it made me feel good when he. Troi, I'm your friend and you tricked me.
TROI: Only so you'd think about it, completely and clearly.
PICARD: We're all being manipulated, Lieutenant, myself most of all.
TROI: How simple all this would be without the Prime Directive.
PICARD: That thought had passed through my mind, Counselor.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What is this message from Starbase Fourteen?
CRUSHER: It's showing the infection rates, percentage illness increases. The plague on Styris Four has flared up out of control.
LAFORGE: They're estimating deaths in the millions, sir.
RIKER: Captain Picard, come in.

[Tasha's room]
TASHA: I know I can win. Not that I'd take her life, of course, but I'd be glad to embarrass her. The idea of accusing me of taking
TROI: The plague?
PICARD: If anything, even worse than we'd heard.
TASHA: Which means they desperately need the vaccine, sir. And I know I can win this challenge.
PICARD: You have nothing to prove anything here, Lieutenant.
TROI: But the vaccine is important in this case, sir.
PICARD: Counselor, you're the last person I'd expect to argue in favor of accepting the challenge.
TROI: Betazoid blood is also practical, Captain. The odds are very good she'd defeat Lutan's wife easily and you would win all the bargaining points you need.
PICARD: The odds are.
TROI: You have pointed out yourself we are all at risk every day of every mission.
PICARD: I want some explanations from Lutan.

[Geordi's Quarters]
LAFORGE: Come in.
DATA: Why that razor, my friend? Why not the one I adjusted to perfect efficiency?
LAFORGE: Shaving is a human art form, Data. Technological perfection can shave too close.
DATA: Puzzling. How can anything be too efficient?
LAFORGE: Thousands of things are too efficient, Data, at least for humans.
DATA: We always come back to the human equation.
LAFORGE: Exactly. Have you continued to work on it?
DATA: Constantly, my friend. Particularly the humor. A man goes to a store to buy some kidneys.
LAFORGE: Oh, no.
DATA: He says to the shopkeeper, I'd like a pound of kiddillies, please. The shopkeeper says to him, You mean kidneys, don't you? The man says, I said kiddillies, diddle I?
LAFORGE: It's too old. And you didn't tell it very well.
DATA: How do you know when something is funny?
LAFORGE: It's not explainable. You just do.
DATA: Perhaps it is you, Geordi. Includling the kiddillies, I've learned six hundred sixty two jokes, and you have not
LAFORGE: Includling the kiddillies! Now, see, that's funny.
DATA: It was not meant as a joke. The tongue slipped.
LAFORGE: Oh, boy.
RIKER: Riker to Commander Data, Lieutenant La Forge. Report to the Transporter Room for away party duty.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Care to lend a hand? Sit at Ops.

[Transporter Room]
RIKER: Move!
TASHA: We're too late. She's growing cold.
CRUSHER: Sorry, that clashes with my instructions.
TASHA: Oh no. No.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Welcome back, Captain. You're wanted in the lounge.
PICARD: This way, gentlemen.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What? Wesley.
RIKER: Young Wesley, he'd been manning that station for me. I forgot.
PICARD: Well, thanks again for manning one of our bridge stations, Wesley. We'll see that you have another chance.
WESLEY: Yes sir.
PICARD: So what's the delay, Number One? Why aren't we warping out of here?
RIKER: Set course for Styris Four, warp three.
LAFORGE: Course laid in for Styris Four, sir.
RIKER: Engage.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Such a beautiful world. Legends say it has been known to mend souls and heal broken hearts.
DATA: Legends which are totally unsupported by fact, Captain.
PICARD: Legends like that are the spice of the universe, Mister Data, because they have a way of sometimes coming true.

[Riker's quarters]
TASHA: Lieutenant Yar to Commander Riker, your presence is requested in Transporter room one.
RIKER: Sorry ladies. Duty calls.

[Ready room]
TROI: I was certain it would never happen, Captain. The years I'd spend on this mission, the distance it has taken me away from home. As you must have heard, genetic bonding is a Betazoid tradition. Steven Miller was my father's closest friend.
RIKER: Your father was human, Deanna. The Millers are human
PICARD: Will you and your husband be staying with the ship, Counselor?
TROI: No, sir.
PICARD: Then I'll just say congratulations for now, Deanna. You'll excuse me?
TROI: Bill, more than anything else in the world, anything, you want to be a starship captain. True?
RIKER: That's not all I want, Deanna.
TROI: I can feel that. I know you care, within those limits. Did you hear what I said?
RIKER: Every word. This whole thing is still bizarre. I'm sorry.
TROI: Come dance at my wedding.
RIKER: I'll try.
DATA: A message from planet Haven, Counselor. They wish to beam the Miller wedding party aboard.

[Bridge]
DATA: On the viewer, Captain. Unidentified vessel traveling sub-warp speed, bearing two three five point seven.
PICARD: Sub-warp? It's several hours away then? Let's take a look at it. Enlarge to maximum.
LAFORGE: Increasing magnification, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, is that the trouble I believe it is?
DATA: If you mean a Tarellian vessel, sir, it is.
RIKER: I thought the Tarellians were all dead What are the poor devils doing here?
PICARD: Picard to Sickbay. Doctor Crusher to Bridge, urgent. They must not be permitted them to destroy us. Or the planet.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. It has been believed the Tarellian race was extinct, an assumption contradicted now by the sight of one of their vessels approaching Haven.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: The fact that it's traveling at its present velocity suggests a possible answer.
LAFORGE: A damaged vessel, sir. That could explain it.
RIKER: If it were unable to reach warp speed, it would have taken all these years to get here.
PICARD: Go on with your briefing, Mister Data.
DATA: Tarella was class M, much like your Earth, with similar humanoid life forms. Unfortunately they faced the old story of hatred out powering intelligence.
PICARD: There were hostilities?
DATA: Between the inhabitants of their two land masses, resulting in one group unleashing a deadly biological weapon on the other.
CRUSHER: And in the end the other became infected as well. Makes one question the sanity of humanoid forms.
PICARD: Can you identify the origin of the infection, Doctor?
CRUSHER: The Tarellians had reached Earth's late twentieth century level of knowledge. That's all you need if you're a damned fool. A deadly, infectious virus which at that modest level of knowledge is not difficult to grow.
TASHA: We learned the rest of the story in security training. Some Tarellians made it to other worlds only to die along with the populations they infected.
LAFORGE: It's pretty well covered in Academy training now, Captain. Many of them tried to avoid other civilized worlds as they escaped only to be hunted down and destroyed anyway.
PICARD: And it was believed that the last Tarellian vessel was destroyed eight years ago by the Alcyones.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Exactly when will they reach Haven?
DATA: Exactly thirteen hours, nine minutes, twenty two seconds, three hundred fifty
PICARD: Thank you. Which creates a very difficult problem for the Enterprise. Our treaty requires us to protect Haven, and Federation policy requires that we assist life forms in need, which must include the Tarellians. I'll want you to help me find some answers. Thank you. However, there will be ample time for your second assignment, voluntary of course. The pre-joining announcement of Counselor Deanna Troi
PICARD: And Wyatt Miller.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Captain! Someone's transporting over to the Tarellian ship.
PICARD: Override.
LAFORGE: I can't sir. It's too late.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Take us out of here, Mister Riker.
RIKER: Aye, sir. Warp two, helm. Heading five seven mark three one nine.
PICARD: Our destiny is elsewhere. But I'm happy that yours is here with us, Counselor.
LAFORGE: Warp two, heading five seven mark three one nine.
RIKER: Engage.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, main Engineering is ready to proceed.
PICARD: Engineering, this is the Bridge. It's your call.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Affirmative, Number One. Are you ready?

[Engineering]
RIKER: We are.
PICARD: La Forge, set in warp one point five.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Warp one point five, sir.
PICARD: Engage.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Captain, we're passing warp ten!
PICARD: What is our velocity?
DATA: It's off the scale, sir.
PICARD: Reverse engines.
DATA: Captain, no one has ever reversed engines at this velocity.
PICARD: Because no one has gone this fast. Reverse engines.
PICARD: All stop.
LAFORGE: Reading all stop, sir.
PICARD: Position?
LAFORGE: Calculating it, sir. Data, what do you read there?
DATA: Malfunction, I trust.
PICARD: Position, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Well, sir, according to these calculations, we've not only left our own galaxy, but passed through two others, ending up on the far side of Triangulum. The galaxy known as M Thirty Three.
PICARD: That's not possible. Data, what distance have we traveled?
DATA: Two million seven hundred thousand light years.
PICARD: I can't accept that.
DATA: You must, sir. Our comparisons show it to be completely accurate.
LAFORGE: And I calculate that at maximum warp, sir it would take over three hundred years to get home.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 41263.2. This will be a rather unusual log entry, assuming Starfleet ever receives it. As I have already informed my crew, a phenomenal surge of power during a warp speed experiment has sent our starship hurtling out of our own galaxy, past another, taking us over two million seven hundred thousand light years in a few minutes.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I've laid in the reciprocal course back, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Begin at warp one point five.
LAFORGE: Warp one point five, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: All stop.
LAFORGE: Answering all stop, Captain.
DATA: According to the instruments, sir, our speed never exceeded warp one point five.
LAFORGE: All stopped, sir.
PICARD: Yes, but where is this place?
DATA: Where none have gone before.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 41263.3. Instead of returning to our own galaxy, the Enterprise has gone forward to a place in the universe which is uncharted and unknown. Our present position puts us at over a billion light years from our galaxy.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data, you have the helm. I'll be in Engineering.
TASHA: What is it?
WORF: A Klingon Targ! My pet. From home, but when I was a child.
TASHA: You're telling me that's a kitty-cat?
WORF: Yes, I suppose you could call it that.

[Bridge]
TASHA: You darling, what are you doing here?

[Tunnel]
TASHA: Now, run. This isn't a safe place at all.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Tasha, what's wrong? You look scared to death.
TASHA: I was, I was. This is crazy. I was at the colony where I grew up, being chased by a rape gang
LAFORGE: Are you all right? Well, you're safe now.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Also becomes a reality. We must, therefore, I repeat, must begin controlling our thoughts.

[Corridor]
PICARD: We will give you more on this as our understanding increases. The Enterprise will stay at full alert until the crisis is over.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Do you have any further advice, Counselor?
TROI: When you begin the attempt, there will be stress, and it's only natural the crew's concentration will shift.
TASHA: Plus some genuine fear, Captain. You can't notice what's happening outside without feeling some of that.
PICARD: All decks, all stations.

[Various parts of the ship]
PICARD: This is the Captain speaking. All decks, I must have your full attention. In a few moments, as we attempt to warp back home, it is vital, absolutely vital, that you center your thoughts on your duty or on the welfare of the one called the Traveler.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Think of giving him some of your strength. Now, this is an order. You must try to do this.

[Bridge]
PICARD: And now, attempt to concentrate completely on your duty of the moment. Or on the Traveler, on his well being.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Think of him as someone you care deeply about.

[Bridge]
PICARD: All decks, all stations. Battle stations.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Helm, set in warp one point five, retroactive course.
LAFORGE: Warp one point five, retroactive two six one mark three one, sir.
PICARD: Bridge to Engineering. Stand by.
TROI: I feel such an abundance of well being on the ship. It feels like, quite wonderful.
RIKER: Engineering to Bridge, we're ready.
PICARD: On my order, Mister Data, Mister La Forge. Engage.
PICARD: It's not happening. It's not enough.
DATA: Warp one point five, sir, which is what my instruments have read all along.
LAFORGE: And our position reads exactly what it was before this sleigh ride began, sir.
PICARD: Cease Red Alert.
DATA: Sleigh ride?
LAFORGE: Or whatever you want to call it, Data. I don't have a proper name for it.
RIKER: The Traveler's gone, sir.
PICARD: Gone?
RIKER: He's phased completely out of existence. At least, out of our existence.
PICARD: Attention all decks. This is to inform you that with your support the Traveler has returned us to our galaxy. However, he has now left us. Wherever he has gone, we wish him well. Have the boy sent to the Bridge, Number One.
RIKER: Wesley Crusher, report to the Bridge, on the double.
PICARD: Our next assignment is on this heading?
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, Mister La Forge, increase to warp five. Same heading.
DATA: Warp five, sir.
LAFORGE: On that same heading, sir.
PICARD: Ah, Wesley. Come on the Bridge. Move!
PICARD: Commander Riker has told me how supportive you were in Engineering. Well done. At ease. Sit here in Command.
RIKER: Captain, it's not allowed. Your orders.
PICARD: Oh, that's true. Well, I can't waive them again. Only commissioned officers.
WESLEY: It's quite all right, sir, I understand.
PICARD: Please don't interrupt me, Wesley.
WESLEY: I'm sorry, sir.
PICARD: Any commissioned rank? Even ensign?
RIKER: That would give him authorized access to the Bridge.
PICARD: Well, then, I'll have to make him an acting ensign. Captain's log, stardate 41263.4. For outstanding performance in the best of Starfleet tradition, Wesley Crusher is made Acting Ensign, with the duties and privileges of that rank. And whether that rank becomes permanent, Mister Crusher, depends on you. At the earliest opportunity, your entrance application for Starfleet Academy will be tendered. Until then, you will learn this ship. Every operation, every function. Commander Riker, a duty schedule for Mister Crusher, heavy on study.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Meanwhile, you can sit here and learn something.
RIKER: Sir, shall I send for Doctor Crusher?
PICARD: Why? Is someone ill? Or would you rather tell her about this, Wes?
WESLEY: If you don't mind, sir, I'd like to sit here awhile. I'll tell her later.

[Bridge]
RIKER: There she is.
PICARD: Enlarge. What is their course?
LAFORGE: They are now angling through that solar system, Captain.
PICARD: Identify.
DATA: Listed as Delphi Ardu, sir. Eleven planets, unexplored.
RIKER: Stay with them, La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
TASHA: Sensors read a power surge from their last maneuver, Captain.
LAFORGE: They are dropping to subwarp speed.
PICARD: Reduce to impulse power.
TASHA: Sensor record fluctuations in the energy readings from it, Captain.
DATA: Possibility, a malfunction in their engines, sir.
LAFORGE: Breaks my heart.
WORF: In visual range, Captain.
PICARD: Fully enlarge.
LAFORGE: Hello, stranger.
PICARD: Very impressive design.
RIKER: Anything on that design, Data?
DATA: Nothing specific, sir. As you know, Ferengi technology is estimated to be generally equal to our own.
PICARD: But that does not mean identical, however.
DATA: Correct, sir. We are no doubt advanced in some areas, they in others.
LAFORGE: Showing another power surge, sir.
WORF: They are firing on us.
PICARD: Damage report?
TASHA: Shields holding.
DATA: Mostly electromagnetic, sir. Fusion generator and batteries down by thirty percent.
LAFORGE: Our impulse engines are surging now.
WORF: They're firing again.
TASHA: Deflector shield power weakening, Captain. Phasers ready. Photon torpedoes ready.
RIKER: Do we return their fire, sir?
PICARD: Negative, Number One. They're just reacting to our close pursuit. Fall back a bit but stay with them.
DATA: They are slowing too, sir.
TASHA: They may be turning to fight.
PICARD: Open hailing freq. Why are we gaining on them? Don't anticipate.
LAFORGE: I'm not, sir. Something's wrong.
DATA: Sir, something is dragging us forward.
PICARD: I read that, too. Lieutenant Yar, what do your sensors show?
TASHA: Not certain, sir. I'm getting very confusing readings.
DATA: Captain, this shouldn't be. Our ship's power systems are failing.
TASHA: Deflector shield failing. Phasers going inoperative, Captain.
LAFORGE: Captain, something is completely immobilizing us.
WORF: Immobilized by the damn Ferengi.
PICARD: We need more information. What the hell are they are using?
RIKER: Obviously we've underestimated their technology, Captain.
PICARD: Considerably. It appears the Ferengi have us right where they want us. In their sights. Are you searching all frequencies? Any sign of any kind of messages?
WORF: Negative, sir.
PICARD: Weapons report, Lieutenant.
TASHA: I have phasers and torpedoes armed, but I show insufficient power to fire them.
PICARD: Engineering, give me status on power recovery. Engineering, come in. Why aren't they answering? La Forge.
LAFORGE: Sir.
PICARD: Get me a full report from Engineering.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: It's impossible they could be draining all power from all systems.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: I'm sensing nothing from them Captain. Which could mean they can shield their thoughts and emotions from others.
PICARD: It still makes it our move.
TROI: Sir, they may know as little about us as we do about them.
RIKER: Except that they know they've got us in deep trouble.
PICARD: If so, the question becomes how will they use that knowledge? Data, do you have any information touching this on any file?
DATA: None, sir. Only hearsay and third hand reports, most of which conflict.
RIKER: Which reports do not conflict?
DATA: That the Ferengi are, well, the best description may be traders.
PICARD: What kind of traders?
DATA: A comparison modern scholars have drawn from Earth history likens the Ferengi to the ocean-going Yankee traders of eighteenth and nineteenth century America, sir.
RIKER: From the history of my forebears. Yankee traders.
DATA: Who in this case sail the galaxy in search of mercantile and territorial opportunity.
RIKER: And are those scholars saying the Ferengi may not unlike us?
DATA: Hardly, sir. I believe this analogy refers to the worst quality of capitalists. The Ferengi are believed to conduct their affairs of commerce on the ancient principle caveat emptor. Let the buyer beware.
RIKER: Yankee traders. I like the sound of that.
DATA: Well, sir, I doubt they wear red, white and blue, or look anything like Uncle Sam.
PICARD: Engineering? Join La Forge down below in Engineering, Number One.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Without warp capacity, we're just a floating target.
WORF: Uncle who?
TASHA: What have bright, primary colors got to do with it?
PICARD: I understand the allusion. Colors representing countries at a time when they competed with each other. Red, white and blue for the United States. Whereas the French more properly used the same colors in the order of blue, white and red.
DATA: And the German nation red, black and gold. The Italians green, white and red. The British
PICARD: That's enough, Data.
DATA: It was you who
PICARD: We're discussing the Ferengi. I wish I had some clue as to what they will do next.
DATA: Given what is now happening to our ship, sir, their weapons could be vastly superior to ours.
PICARD: Yes, Data, that is a natural assumption. Engineering?

[Engineering]
RIKER: Bottom line, La Forge.
LAFORGE: It's not good, sir. The Ferengi forcefield that holds this ship compensates almost as fast as we can increase power.
RIKER: Almost?
LAFORGE: Well, there's a point three hundred seventy two millisecond delay between use of our power and the neutralizing counter force of the Ferengi. See, we push and they push back in equal force, sir.
RIKER: What's our acceleration delay between slow-reverse impulse and top warp speed?
LAFORGE: That's point three-hundred milliseconds. There's Ah, I see where you're going. We shift down and then kick hard into warp nine. Yeah! Come back fighting! whooey!
RIKER: Can we do it, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Ask me after it's done, sir. I want a slow reverse into drop off over five minutes. We'll show them what this baby can do, sir.
RIKER: Give me everything you've got.
LAFORGE: Aye, aye, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: In a sudden, abrupt power surge to high warp speed, Captain, we may be able to break loose from that Ferengi forcefield.
PICARD: I wonder what they're thinking over there.
RIKER: They're wondering what we're going to do next.
WORF: I say fight, sir. There's nothing shameful in falling before a superior enemy.
PICARD: And nothing shameful in a strategic retreat, either.
LAFORGE: All systems ready, Captain. And communication now restored to Engineering.
PICARD: Excellent, La Forge. Now let's, er, let's throw them off guard. Lieutenant Yar. Open hailing frequencies.
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir.
PICARD: At least we won't begin with weakness. Attention Ferengi starship! This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise. In the name of the United Federation of Planets, I demand you return the T9 energy converter you removed from Gamma Tauri Four. Send that in all language forms.
TASHA: All language forms, sir.
PICARD: Sometimes, Riker, the best way to win a fight is not to be there.
RIKER: Yes, sir. He will triumph who knows when to fight and when not to fight.
PICARD: Glad the Academy's still teaches the strategies of Sun Tzu. This delay had better prove out, LaForge.
LAFORGE: Point three hundred milliseconds, sir.
PICARD: Let's blast full power into warp nine. Ready?
LAFORGE: On your command, Captain.
PICARD: On a count of three. Stand by on phasers. One, set warp to nine. Two, divert shield power to the main engines. Three.
PICARD: Merde. Shields up.
DATA: Captain, I think you had better see this.
PICARD: What's wrong?
DATA: Someone is reading every file, every bit of information stored in the Enterprise memory banks.
LAFORGE: They can do that?
DATA: And more, perhaps.
TROI: Captain, if I may recommend? With our attention on the Ferengi vessel, we have ignored the planet.
PICARD: Data, consult the charts on this planet. See what we've got on it. Conference evaluation.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: So, while we still have some power left, it is time for difficult decisions. Opinions please.
TASHA: I say put all available power into a full-out combined phaser and photon torpedo salvo. Destroy their ability to sustain this forcefield, sir.
WORF: Yes! Hit them hard and hit them fast.
PICARD: Impractical and provocative. Even assuming that we have the power to sustain such a tactic.
TASHA: But Captain, isn't firing on us an act of war?
TROI: The facts are the Ferengis did fire at us, but we were chasing them. Since then, all they've done is searched our computers, trying to learn who and what we are.
PICARD: Your point, Counselor?
TROI: Let's talk to them.
PICARD: It's been tried. No response.
TROI: But did we tell them anything they wanted to hear?
PICARD: La Forge? Other opinions? Thank you for your advice.
PICARD: Will? I haven't had your assessment.
RIKER: I believe we've covered every available alternatives, Captain. Are there other options that you want to analyze?
PICARD: The only one remaining is the one that needs no conversation. The only one we must avoid.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: The one that leads to total annihilation.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies.
DATA: Open, sir.
PICARD: Attention, Ferengi starship. This is Captain Picard. It is obvious that we are in a situation here which needs resolving, and we are willing to do whatever is required, whatever is necessary. I would like, I would request, that you present your terms to us.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 41386.5. It is with a heavy heart that I have offered to meet whatever reasonable and necessary terms are demanded by the Ferengi. I fear for my people and my vessel in the event the unknown Ferengi ask the unreasonable. How can I oppose even unreasonable demands?

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Matthew! Pola! You know this area is off limits. Come on, come on. Boys will be boys, Captain.
PICARD: Lieutenant, have you launched the probe?
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. We should getting those readings soon.
PICARD: Well, if we're not holding the Ferengi and they're not holding us, who the hell is?
LAFORGE: The probe will give us some of those answers, sir.
PICARD: Data, you were going to show us something.
DATA: As requested, Captain, library computer information on this planet. It has been charted only from long range scans. It is Class M, but shows no indications of life forms, sentient or otherwise. However, you may find this of interest. Resolving it into our language.
DATA: The center of a huge space federation, a population of trillions.
PICARD: Trillions? I've never heard the word Tkon before.
DATA: Understandable. It has been extinct six hundred thousand of our of our years. These planets were once outposts of that empire.
PICARD: Data, what are you doing?
DATA: Apologies, Captain. I seem to have reached an odd functional impasse. I am stuck.
PICARD: Then get unstuck and continue with the briefing.
DATA: Yes, sir. That is what I am trying to do, sir, but the solution eludes me.
LAFORGE: My hero.
PICARD: Continue, Commander.
DATA: Intriguing. It describes the Empire as being highly advanced and powerful, and capable of actually moving stars.
RIKER: Stars whose planets are their defense system?
DATA: Correct, sir. Outposts. The planet below was possibly one of them.
TASHA: Excuse the interruption, Captain, but this may be worth it. We're now receiving a signal from the probe.
PICARD: We'll take it here.
LAFORGE: Incredible!
RIKER: There's our mysterious something, Captain. It is a forcefield of some kind.
PICARD: Reaching up from the planet surface. Amazing power. Data, what does the legend say about the end of the Tkon Empire?
DATA: Their sun went supernova, sir.
PICARD: Could this planet have escaped that?
DATA: This planet may have been the most distant outpost, sir, but it shows no life form readings.
PICARD: We should take a look at it, Number One. Stand by with an away team.
RIKER: And if the Ferengi also realize the forcefield emanates from the planet, sir?
PICARD: That's a complication. Maybe we should ask them to join us in this.
LAFORGE: Team up with the Ferengi, sir?
PICARD: We've been ordered to learn all we can about them. Do you know a better way?
LAFORGE: Data.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. In orbit of a mysterious planet, whose unexplained forcefield has seized us with a power almost beyond imagination. If there is a solution to this, it almost certainly will involve cooperation from the Ferengi.

[Transporter room]
DATA: With this power drain, we may have trouble communicating with the Enterprise, sir.
RIKER: Understood. Anything else?
DATA: Due to this forcefield, there is presently no way to beam us back, sir.
LAFORGE: You had to ask.
RIKER: Understood. Energize.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Tasha? Data? Geordi? Worf? Anybody?!
RIKER: Data?
RIKER: What are you doing up there?
DATA: Most intriguing, sir. I assume a problem of inaccurately transmitted program coordinates due to the force field around the ship, sir. Are we alone, sir?
RIKER: Unfortunately. Let's find the others. What do you make of these?
DATA: Crystalline. Mostly inert. Nothing to write home about.
RIKER: Excuse me?
DATA: Slang, sir. I did use it correctly, did I not?
RIKER: They've got to be around here somewhere.
RIKER: What's that?
DATA: What?
RIKER: That! Geordi!
RIKER: Are you conscious?
LAFORGE: Do I look conscious?
RIKER: What are you doing?
LAFORGE: I'm resting, sir. My foot's stuck. Up there. I materialized upside down above the planet surface.
DATA: Tricorder's useless, sir. Communication's gone too. Fortunately you did not break any
LAFORGE: Data, who's that?
RIKER: Who are you?
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. It is now six hours since our away team beamed down to the planet surface. On the Enterprise, our condition is rapidly worsening. Ordinarily, with reserve power alone, we could maintain life support for several months. But the force holding has closed down all engines and is draining our reserve power too.

[Recreation lounge]
TROI: It's getting much, much colder, sir. How far down is it likely to go?
PICARD: A lot. Even in orbital space it'll get below minus two hundred degrees.
CRUSHER: We won't have to worry much past minus seventy or so.
PICARD: Feels like that right now. Good. Thank you.

[Recreation lounge]
PICARD: I've diverted the reserve power to the family decks. They'll last longest. Is there anything else we can do, Doctor? Where's Wesley?
CRUSHER: He's in our quarters. I was tempted to give him a sedative.
PICARD: You shouldn't.
CRUSHER: I know, but he's my son. I love him.
PICARD: He has the right to meet death awake.
CRUSHER: Is that a male perspective?
PICARD: Rubbish

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Not a moment too soon, Jean. I mean, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Compliments, Lieutenant.
TASHA: Thank you.
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf.
PICARD: You've done well.
DATA: Something to write home about.
LAFORGE: Something to write home about? Data, that's very human.
RIKER: The T9 energy converter has been beamed aboard and secured, sir. The Ferengi complained bitterly, but one final roar from Portal convinced them.
PICARD: I commend your performance, Number One.
RIKER: One final request, sir. Permission to beam a box of Data's Chinese finger puzzles over to the Ferengi. A thank you for all they tried to do.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Bridge]
PICARD: But do you understand the basis of all this nonsense between them?
RIKER: No sir. I didn't understand that kind of hostility even when I studied Earth history.
PICARD: Really? Oh, yes, well these life forms feel such passionate hatred matters of custom, God concepts, even, strangely enough, economic systems
DATA: Sir, my sensors are picking up an unusual energy object ahead.
PICARD: On screen.
TASHA: Confirmed, sir. My sensors read nothing solid but considerable energy in changing patterns.
DATA: Also traveling at warp speed, sir. Intriguing. I can find no match with anything in our records, sir.
PICARD: Change course to make a close sensor pass. We can then increase warp speed and reach Parliament on schedule.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Sensor Maintenance]
LAFORGE: So, Worf, why the interest in this? It's just routine maintenance on the sensor assemblies.
WORF: Simple, Geordi. Our Captain wants his junior officers to learn, learn, learn.
LAFORGE: Not just the junior ones. Okay, you hold this relay offline while I adjust these sensor circuits.
TASHA: Security to Sensor Maintenance.
LAFORGE: Lieutenant La Forge here.

[Bridge]
TASHA: We're making a close sensor pass on an unusual object, Geordi. Any problems?
LAFORGE: Not at all, Lieutenant. All equipment on line and functioning.
TASHA: Sensors ready, sir.
PICARD: Life form reading?
DATA: No life form reading, sir.
PICARD: Begin the pass.
DATA: Sir, it is changing shape.
PICARD: Any readings of matter there?
DATA: Negative, Captain. Energy only.

[Sensor Maintenance]
LAFORGE: Worf! La Forge to Sickbay. We havd a medical emergency in sensor maintenance. I repeat, this is a medical emergency.
CRUSHER: What happened?
LAFORGE: I don't know. He got hit by some sensor feedback, maybe.
LAFORGE: You got it, Doc?
CRUSHER: I got it. Lieutenant Worf, can you hear what I'm saying? Let's get him up.
LAFORGE: Okay. Come on, big guy. On your feet. Here we go. That's it.
CRUSHER: Are you okay?

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: He was just monitoring the sensor console when he jerked as though something hit him. What my sensors showed was a glow, just for a second. I can't explain it.
PICARD: Could your Visor device have malfunctioned?
LAFORGE: I doubt it, sir. It seemed what I was seeing was something real.

[Sickbay]
TROI: He's reading normal now. How did you manage that?
CRUSHER: Yes. Normal.
TROI: Are you all right?
CRUSHER: Yes, perfectly. Both of us. Quite normal now.
WORF: What? Where am I?
TROI: Don't you remember? You were in the sensor maintenance room.
WORF: I remember monitoring the sensor console. What am I doing here?
TROI: That's a story the Doctor will tell you.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Obviously you feel it's something we should look at more carefully.
DATA: A mystery is only a mystery as long as it remains uninvestigated, sir.
PICARD: I love a mystery, Data, but this one will have to to wait until we deliver the delegates to their peace conference on Parliament. Time and tide, Lieutenant La Forge. Go to warp eight.
LAFORGE: Warp eight, sir.

[Crusher's quarters]
WESLEY: Him Mom. You're back early.
CRUSHER: Yes.
WESLEY: Physical sciences class. We're studying Doctor Channing's theory on dilithium crystals.
CRUSHER: Tell me about it.
WESLEY: Really? You never seemed that interested in warp theory before. Doctor Channing thinks it's possible to force dilithium into even more useful crystals. If as shown here, matter and antimatter could be aligned even more efficiently
CRUSHER: Would that affect navigation?
WESLEY: This is engineering, not helm control.
CRUSHER: Oh yes, the helm's located on the Bridge.
WESLEY: Mom, is something wrong?

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, warp power is fading.
PICARD: Picard to Engineering.

[Bridge]
WORF: Warp five, four, three, two
PICARD: State of the art vessel? Data, signal Parliament we'll be delayed. We will send a new arrival time as soon as it is determined.
DATA: Sir, subspace radio is out.

[Ready room]
PICARD: All right, gentlemen, your theories on this sudden vulnerability of these systems.
DATA: If the Enterprise were really this fragile, sir, she never would have left Spacedock. Therefore, her systems' failures are not endemic to the ship, but are the result of the actions of an unknown adversary.
RIKER: We have a saboteur aboard.
DATA: I believe I said that.
PICARD: Gentlemen. The question is, who? I can't believe it's one of our people.
RIKER: Agreed. It must be someone from either alien delegation. Now, if the Ferengi could have bought or bribed even one of them, that's all that they'd need.
DATA: Ferengi contacts have been detected on both Selay and Antica, sir.
PICARD: Can any of you suggest any other suspects?
RIKER: You're sounding like a private eye, sir.
DATA: Inquiry. Private eye?
PICARD: A private consulting investigator, Data, who solves crimes.
DATA: A most interesting occupation.
PICARD: In the world of fact, probably not. However, in literature, criminal detection can be a fascinating exercise. The immortal Sherlock Holmes would have an interesting view of our mystery, I believe.
RIKER: But I'm afraid we're going to have to find our solution without history's greatest Consulting Detective.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: Hi. Solve any new problems today?
WESLEY: I was starting to, maybe. Mister Singh sent me off to class.
CRUSHER: Wes, you're only an acting ensign. You've got to let the commissioned officers do some of the work.
WESLEY: Mom, I've learned a more than they understand. For example, the Channing's dilithium crystals theory I was telling you about?
CRUSHER: When were you telling me about that?
WESLEY: This morning. Don't you remember?
CRUSHER: Honestly, I don't remember.

[Engineering]
WORF: Engineering to Captain Picard. Security alert.
PICARD: Picard.
WORF: Lieutenant Worf, sir. I just found Mister Singh. He's dead.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 41249.4. I've ordered an immediate investigation into the death of Assistant Chief Engineer Singh. We continue to run on impulse power.

[Engineer's office]
WESLEY: He could have been working there, restoring warp power.
LAFORGE: According to these readings, we could go back to warp speed now.
WESLEY: Those aren't the same readings as when I left.
WORF: Singh probably repaired it just before he was killed.
WESLEY: He couldn't have repaired, sir. The problems were inside the engine.
LAFORGE: Who else could have corrected it, Wes? Inform the bridge of engine status.
WORF: Engineering to Bridge. We now have warp capacity, sir. All power on line.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Well done. Warp engines ready on previous heading. Warp factor six.

[Crusher's office]
WORF: You wanted me, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Yes, concerning your memory blackout.
WORF: I still don't remember having one.
CRUSHER: The same thing happened to me.
TROI: I want to try hypnosis on both of you. It may restore your memory as to what happened.

[Observation lounge]
TASHA: One thing is clear. Almost all of the peace delegates answered our questions with lies.
DATA: Imprecise, Lieutenant. They omitted certain truths, which in itself tells us something.
TASHA: We can learn something from non-disklosure?
DATA: Indubitably, my good woman.
RIKER: It's something the Captain mentioned. Sherlock Holmes. Indubitably, Data has been studying him.
DATA: Has studied, sir. Every case. As Holmes would've pointed out, during the time in question, something was afoot.
TASHA: Afoot?
DATA: While both sets of delegates say they were in their quarters, our crew locator sensed them passing here and here.
TASHA: But since it doesn't show where they went, we're still in the dark.
DATA: On the contrary, dear colleague. On their return, they drew medical supplies appropriate to the treatment of minor wounds and abrasions on these life forms.
RIKER: Which, leaves us with only one conclusion.
DATA: Exactly. That they were too engaged in their own affairs to have disabled our ship and murdered the Engineer. Given a choice, they'd rather kill each other than any of us. It's elementary, my dear Riker. Sir.

[Sickbay]
TROI: Beverly, can you hear me?
CRUSHER: Yes.
TROI: I want you to go back in your mind to the moment when you first recall this sensation of memory loss. Picture it exactly as it occurred.
CRUSHER: He's lying on the hospital bed sedated. I'm walking up to him. I.
TROI: How do you feel at this moment, as you lean over him to take the specimen?
CRUSHER: I feel someone else. There's someone else who's there. Not alone. Get out. Get out of my mind.
TROI: That's almost exactly what you said. As though there was something else inside you.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: Which confirms the feeling of duality that I sensed earlier in both of them.
PICARD: Why didn't you report it?
TROI: Because, sir, I assumed at first it was the kind of duality we Betazeds feel in all of you. Even you, sir. When you approach a decision and ask yourself which way to go, who are you talking to?
PICARD: Your hypnotism revealed another form of duality?
TROI: Yes, sir. I believe something invaded them.
CRUSHER: It seems the only possible conclusion.
PICARD: Data, let's proceed without the pipe.
DATA: Yes, sir. If you wish, sir. But I ask if you'd take it as incontrovertible that it cannot be a family member or one of our crew?
PICARD: Yes. Very unlikely.
DATA: Then our investigation was worthwhile, sir. We have eliminated both the delegates and the ship's regular complement.
PICARD: Data, what are you suggesting?
DATA: I am referring to the great detective's credo, sir. I quote, we must fall back on the old axiom that when other contingencies fail, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: That engine computer net wasn't repaired, sir. It just suddenly became all right.
LAFORGE: Sometimes it's the result that counts, you know. What the? Oh, no.
WORF: What is it?
LAFORGE: Helm control just went down. She won't respond.
WORF: Bridge to Captain. You're needed here immediately.
LAFORGE: Wes, alert Engineering from your panel, alright?
WESLEY: I'm trying.
PICARD: Report.
WORF: Helm is down, sir. There's no apparent reason.
LAFORGE: Captain, we've just dropped to impulse power.
LAFORGE: Sir, are you all right? I thought I just saw
PICARD: I'm fine. Everything is fine now. Why the drop to impulse power, Lieutenant?
LAFORGE: The helm is suddenly malfunctioning, sir.
PICARD: Malfunctioning? You're wrong. Look again.
LAFORGE: Sir, I was just
RIKER: Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Well, there's nothing wrong with it now, sir. Everything is just as it should be.
PICARD: In that case, make our heading nine two five mark three seven.
LAFORGE: Sir?
PICARD: You have a problem with that heading, Lieutenant?
LAFORGE: You want to double back on our course, sir?
PICARD: Isn't that what I ordered?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Sir, I'm puzzled about your reversing our course.
PICARD: That energy cloud, Commander. I believe it important we have another look at it.
RIKER: But we're behind schedule for Parliament already.
PICARD: I believe a very important scientific discovery awaits us on this heading.
TROI: Perhaps you'd like to share your reasoning on that, sir?
DATA: Yes, since we obtained only minimal information on our sensor pass of it.
PICARD: Right, Data. We must go back to learn more. Counselor, do you believe a ship Captain should explain every order?
TROI: Of course not, sir.

[Riker's quarters]
DATA: A mere change of direction hardly justifies mutiny.
CRUSHER: Exactly what do you believe you're sensing from him?
TROI: It's just a feeling that he's, well, that he's closed part of his mind to me. I just feel that the Captain has become, perhaps dangerous.
RIKER: If he's dangerous. If.
LAFORGE: Then he'd have to be relieved of command. Which you could do, Doctor, but it's beaucoup trouble if you're wrong.
DATA: And at the moment it is all pure speculation. He has done nothing to subject the Enterprise to danger.
CRUSHER: I'd need a medical log citing clear evidence of incapacity. You could do it without that problem.
RIKER: Only if all command officers agreed it vital to do so. But he has not been showing any overt unusual behavior.
TROI: Ultimately, I believe he will.
CRUSHER: As second in command, it's still in your corner. I'll order medical and psychiatric exams. You'll have to back me up somehow. First Officer's log, supplemental. After meeting with the senior officers, Doctor Crusher and I decided to approach the Captain regarding his recent behavior.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Yes?
CRUSHER: I'd like you to come to Sickbay for some examinations, Captain.
PICARD: Oh? I'll be glad to do when I'm free.
CRUSHER: I'd like to conduct them now, sir.
PICARD: Why? What can I do for you, Number One?
RIKER: Sir, Counselor Troi has recommended the examinations.
PICARD: Same question. Why?
RIKER: It is my duty to inform the Captain we believe he may be under some kind of alien influence which may constitute a danger to this ship.
PICARD: I consider it equally possible that the two of you, and Counselor Troi, are overworked, and possibly suffering hallucinations. Now this is an order. You will arrange medical and psychiatric exams of both yourself and them. Doctor, are you aware everybody is behaving strangely?
CRUSHER: I'm concerned that you've suddenly turned the ship away from it's course.
PICARD: What's happened to your mind, Doctor? The search for knowledge is always our primary mission. I'm sorry, I really am too busy for this kind of nonsense. Do I have to call Security to force you to report to the Sickbay?
CRUSHER: No, sir.

[Bridge]
TASHA: Yar here.
RIKER: Security guard to the Engineering deck.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Selays are playing hide and seek down here, obviously with the Anticans. It's a lethal game. I want them returned to their quarters under guard.
TASHA: Right away, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: What do you want?
CRUSHER: Here are the results from the exams you ordered, sir. You don't care to inspect them? Please, are you Jean-Luc?
PICARD: He is here.
CRUSHER: The Jean-Luc I know?
PICARD: And more.
CRUSHER: The more frightens me.
PICARD: And elates us. We wish you could understand the glorious adventure ahead.
CRUSHER: You and?
PICARD: Soon we'll both be home. First officer's log, supplemental. On the orders of Captain Picard, we have returned to the vicinity of the energy pattern cloud. I am personally convinced that something from this cloud now shares the Captain's mind. But there seems to be nothing we can do, at least within regulations.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We're now approaching the cloud, sir.
RIKER: Very well, Mister La Forge. Bring us to within ten thousand kilometers and hold us there.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Shall we begin the scientific tests you wanted, sir?
PICARD: Oh, they're already underway. I have an announcement for the entire Bridge. As many of you suspected, when our ship passed through the edge of this, it accidentally carried away a sentient being. Much like these energy patterns we're seeing here. A terrifying experience for any intelligent being. As if a great claw had reached down and scooped one of you from your home world. Drawn into the energy circuits of this vessel, it found its way to you, Worf. Frantic at being carried from its home world, and recognizing you as sentient beings, it pleaded for help, but in ways you couldn't understand. Desperately going from person to person, and then discovering the computer intelligence in this ship's memory circuits. Oh, simplistic intelligence, but it furnished it enough to slow this Enterprise thing that had captured it. And it very much regrets the accidental death of Engineer Singh.
TROI: Captain, do you exist in combination with this entity?
RIKER: Is it in control of you, sir?
PICARD: Very soon after we combined we had learned much about each other. A passion for exploration, for the unknown. We found we had similar dreams, and it offered your Captain a way to realize them beyond human expectations.
RIKER: Captain, I must speak to you privately now.
DATA: I understand. As an energy pattern, free of the limitations of matter, he might travel anywhere, at any velocity.
RIKER: Captain, do you hear me?
DATA: Sir, I see no way for you to journey with an energy form.
PICARD: Isn't there?
TROI: He's planning to beam himself and the entity into that cloud.
PICARD: The transporter need not pattern your Captain into matter. We'll beam energy only, and we will become a combined energy pattern of our life forms. A resignation from this command and from Starfleet has been appropriately recorded.
RIKER: I refuse to allow this, sir.
PICARD: How does this resignation threaten the ship and its crew in any way?
CRUSHER: Captain Picard, you are now relieved from duty. I judge you to be disabled and mentally incapacitated.
RIKER: Security! Red Alert! Restrain the Captain!
TASHA: Where is he?
TROI: This is blinding me.
WORF: Captain! I'll help you if you'll let me.
RIKER: Someone restrain the Captain!

[Bridge]
TASHA: The Transporter Chief has no idea what the coordinates were, sir.
LAFORGE: So he's just floating around out there? How can we settle for that?
RIKER: Give me a choice then.
DATA: Still no readings, no sign of anything.
RIKER: Mister La Forge, it's time to set a course for Parliament. Warp eight.
LAFORGE: We're really leaving him?
TROI: Commander, wait! It's the Captain. But only the Captain. He's out there alone!
RIKER: The entity, has it abandoned him?
TROI: No, but the combination wasn't possible out there. He's in trouble, sir. We have to beam him back.
RIKER: Beam him back as what? He's nothing but energy now.
DATA: Sir, the entity was caught in the ship's circuitry. The Captain might try to get in the same way if he's in trouble.
RIKER: Bring us in closer, La Forge.
LAFORGE: Moving in, sir, but where?
RIKER: There's no way to know. Let's hope he can come part way himself. Troi, is there any way you can get a message to him?
TROI: I wish I could.
LAFORGE: Sensors monitoring the perimeter, ship's circuitry, sir. Nothing.
RIKER: Bring us right into the edge of it, La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
WORF: Sir? On my sensor controls.
TROI: There's something's here. I feel it.
DATA: Just as before, going to Worf first.
LAFORGE: Something crazy on my panel. Commander Riker. Static?
RIKER: P for Picard!
DATA: He's in the ship's circuitry. Come to the Transporter room, please. There might be a way, sir. Hurry!

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Is it a wild theory, Data?
DATA: I knew we had to have the Captain's physical pattern here, sir. He was the last one to beam out.
RIKER: Is what you're thinking possible?
DATA: Unknown at this time, sir. I hope the Captain remembers his physical pattern is here. If he has, his energy has moved into the transporter relays by now.
RIKER: I wish we had some sign that he's in here. I guess we have no choice but to risk it.
DATA: Energizing, sir.
PICARD: What the devil am I doing here?
RIKER: Sounds like our Captain.
TROI: But confused. This Picard pattern was formed before he went out there.
PICARD: What's happening to me, Number One? I was preparing to beam out to somewhere. And I remember there was talk of an entity? But it all seems so vague.
DATA: I believe the Captain is now his separate self, sir. Much of what happened is naturally missing.
PICARD: What are you talking about, Data? Is this still Sherlock Holmes?
DATA: Indubitably, sir, Indubitably.
PICARD: Well, at least you got rid of the damn pipe.
RIKER: Doctor Crusher asked me to steer you past Sickbay. She said you've been looking very tired.
TASHA: Captain!
PICARD: Yes, Lieutenant.
TASHA: Sorry, Commander, but Security Team Two reports they've discovered a puddle of blood outside the Selay Quarters and they can't find one of the delegates and so
RIKER: Lieutenant. This couldn't have waited a moment?
TASHA: It's good to see you, sir. The problem is that one of the cooks has just been asked to broil reptile for the Anticans, and it looks like the Selay delegate.
PICARD: Riker, with the peace delegates and all, I think I do need a rest. Take charge, Number One.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Riker says the planet's life forms are almost identical to us.
TROI: He's very enthusiastic.
CRUSHER: Captain? Sorry, Troi.
TROI: The Doctor has something very important to tell you, Captain.
PICARD: You've been talking about it for days. Shore leave for the crew.
CRUSHER: Establishing that colony has been exhausting for the entire crew, Captain. We're not a supply vessel. Settling all those people has been a strain on everyone. I'm tired myself.
PICARD: Is it as good as your report suggests, Number One?
RIKER: As per report, sir. Class M, Earth-like, beautiful. It will startle you.
CRUSHER: It sounds wonderful for the children. The holodecks are marvelous, of course, but there's nothing like open spaces and fresh air.
TASHA: I've listed my report on their customs and laws, sir. Fairly simple, common sense things.
LAFORGE: They're wild in some ways, actually puritanical in others. Neat as pins, ultra-lawful, and make love at the drop of a hat.
TASHA: Any hat.
PICARD: But the happiest report has its negatives. Let's start with them, Number One.
RIKER: There are none, sir. Not that any of us can find.
DATA: But there is a problem here, sir.
WORF: It's the faulty reading I reported, sir.
DATA: I'm reading something off the starboard bow, but there is nothing there.
TASHA: Sensor technicians are working on it, sir. They've identified it as a glitch in the system.
PICARD: I take it you find no glitch at all in this planet, however?
RIKER: No, sir.
TASHA: If you approve shore leave, sir, we could start with a small group.
PICARD: Of course. Wesley? If we go down, I'd like you to join the away team to evaluate this world as a place for young people to relax.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: If our scans and observations confirm the report, of course I'll approve it. Let's hope it is not too good to be true.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We are in orbit of a planet designated Rubicun Three, the home of a life form who call themselves the Edo. Our away team, including Wesley Crusher, has beamed down to make arrangements concerning some well-deserved recreation.

[Lounge]
LAFORGE: Lieutenant La Forge to Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go ahead, LaForge. What can you make out?

[Lounge]
LAFORGE: This is something I've never seen before, sir. After complete spectral analysis, well it's as if it's not really there.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Condition?
CRUSHER: No sign of consciousness, but the balance of the readings are quite normal for him.
PICARD: I believe this is some form of information exchange with whatever is over there. At least, I hope it is.
CRUSHER: Any communication from the away team?
PICARD: Something is blocking communication both
TASHA: Security. Urgent. Repeating. Enterprise from away team.
LAFORGE: This is the Enterprise, Lieutenant. We're receiving you now.
TASHA: This is an urgent call for Captain Picard.
RIKER: We may need your presence here, Captain. We have serious trouble with a member of our away team and an unusual law they have here.
PICARD: Captain to Riker, stand by. Signs of consciousness?
CRUSHER: Not yet. Could be minutes or hours. It's unclear what's happened to him.
PICARD: Take him to Sickbay. Let me know the instant he's awake. Anything new on that that thing out there?
LAFORGE: Negative, sir.
PICARD: Captain to First Officer. I'm beaming down.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: What do you intend to do about my son?
PICARD: He's being held safely until sundown.
CRUSHER: When he faces execution! Although he's committed no crime, certainly none that any sane and reasonable person would
PICARD: You saw what that thing was about to do.
CRUSHER: I apologize, sir, but this is very difficult for me. If he were your son, you'd be as frightened
PICARD: But I am.
CRUSHER: Data is in Sickbay here. You'll find him able to talk to you.

[Lounge]
DATA: You sent for me, sir?
PICARD: Let's have more talk, Data.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Sit down.
DATA: What level of communication, sir?
PICARD: Any. My apologies for saying that you babbled.
DATA: But I do, sir.
PICARD: You also see things in a way we do not, but as they truly are. I need help, my friend. I cannot permit that boy or any member of this vessel be sacrificed. The Prime Directive never intended that.
DATA: The problem, sir, is there. Although they've learned of the Prime Directive from my mind, how will they evaluate it? How do they reason? What are their values? Remember their warning to us, sir.
PICARD: Exactly. How do I explain my refusing to obey their laws down there. Not permitting the Crusher boy to be executed. And by so doing do I endanger this vessel and more than a thousand other lives?
DATA: Would you choose one life over one thousand, sir?
PICARD: I refuse to let arithmetic decide questions like that. Did you learn anything about the relationship between that and the Edo? Why are they so certain it's a god?
DATA: Any sufficiently advanced life form would appear to others to be that, sir. But when they were probing my thoughts, Captain, I could feel that whatever they are now, they once existed in this dimension, just as we do. Perhaps in the same kind of flesh and blood form. Since then, however, they have evolved considerably. Their present existence in multi-dimensions no doubt has advantages we do not understand.
PICARD: Then in some earlier flesh and blood form they might have shared our kind of values.
DATA: We know the Edo share them, sir.
PICARD: Why would such an advanced thing feel obliged to protect the Edo?
DATA: Perhaps the Edo are a child race by comparison. Possibly a race which those life forms have planted here. Much as we plant human colonies on Class-M planets.
CRUSHER: Having fulfillled my professional obligations regarding Commander Data
PICARD: You now request permission to beam down to the planet. Permission granted. You can accompany me while I try and resolve this. And you should know that whatever the cost, I will not allow them to execute your son.
CRUSHER: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Data, take command.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Main viewer on.
PICARD: Hailing frequencies.
TASHA: Open, sir.
PICARD: To the object in orbit with us. We will remove the human colonists from the adjoining solar system if you signal us to do so. Please tell us.
DATA: Captain.
LAFORGE: Is that a signal?
PICARD: I suppose, I suppose it must be. I was hoping for more.
LAFORGE: More of what, sir? I'm glad it's gone.
RIKER: Agreed, sir. Short and sweet. God-like efficiency.
PICARD: I was hoping we'd learn more about it. But since we can't, take us out of here, Number One.
RIKER: Gladly, sir.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: You sent for me, sir?
PICARD: Yes, Doctor. Sit down. Look, this perhaps may be nothings, but I've been feeling a bit odd of late. Fatigued. And now I've got this damned headache.
CRUSHER: A what?
PICARD: Headache. Headache. Surely you know what a headache is.
CRUSHER: Of course. But I don't often encounter them.
PICARD: The reason is obvious, of course. What are the Ferengi up to? Stand by, Enterprise. Stand by for what?
CRUSHER: I don't see a thing wrong.
PICARD: No, neither can I. Unless they're baiting some kind of trap.
CRUSHER: With your head. I see nothing physically wrong, but I want to run some additional scans in Sickbay.
PICARD: Doctor, all I've got is
CRUSHER: Is an order to report to Sickbay. From the one person aboard this ship who can give you an order.
RIKER: Captain from First Officer. They're finally sending a message.
PICARD: On my way, Number One. Sorry, Doctor. Duty calls.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Are you always accustomed to getting your way, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Only when my way makes sense, Captain. There are still forty minutes before the Ferengi beam over. I'll have these scans done in ten.
PICARD: It seems an awful lot of effort for something as simple as a headache.
CRUSHER: As simple? You should not have a headache unless there's something wrong, sir. It may be true that headaches were once quite common, but that was in the days before the brain was charted, before we understood the nature of pain. When we were suffering from such things as the common cold.
PICARD: So what's the cause of my headache?
CRUSHER: I haven't the slightest idea. Feel better.
PICARD: The pain's gone.
CRUSHER: Medical fakery. The pain is actually still there. It's just cloaked. I'll want further exams.
PICARD: Doctor!
CRUSHER: When the Ferengi matter is settled.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Like before?
PICARD: No. It hit with more impact.
TROI: Hit? I'm sorry, but anything could be important.
CRUSHER: You said you felt something yourself.
TROI: I believe so. Like a thought, but rather mechanical in nature.
PICARD: Are you sure it wasn't one of my thoughts? At that moment, I was remembering being at the helm of the Stargazer. A maneuver was being made. We were hit. Something's burning. I can smell smoke. Can you smell it?
CRUSHER: There's nothing burning, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: That was just part of my memory.
TROI: Memory or nightmare?
PICARD: Well, it was strong, whatever it was. Are you ready, Number One.
RIKER: Staff's waiting, if Doctor Crusher approves.
CRUSHER: I'll do better than that. I'll go along.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: We were traveling at warp two through the Maxia Zeta star system when this unidentified starship suddenly appeared and fired on us, point-blank range.
RIKER: Where did it come from?
PICARD: It must have been lying in some deep moon crater. First attack damaged the shields. In the confusion, they hit us a second time.
TASHA: No clue who they were?
PICARD: No names, no reason. Can you identify them, Vigo? If they come in a second time with our shields damaged
TROI: Sir? Who's Vigo?
PICARD: He's my weapons officer on the Stargazer. I'm getting quite caught up in this.
RIKER: Your shields were failing, sir.
PICARD: I improvised. With the enemy vessel coming in for the kill, I ordered a sensor bearing, and when it went into the return arc
DATA: You performed what Starfleet textbooks now refer to as the Picard Maneuver.
PICARD: Well, I did what any good helmsman would have done. I dropped into high warp, stopped right off the enemy vessel's bow and fired with everything I had.
RIKER: And blowing into maximum warp speed, you appeared for an instant to be in two places at once.
PICARD: And our attacker fired on the wrong one.
RIKER: I did what any good helmsman could have done. You did it first, sir.
PICARD: It was a save our skins maneuver. We were finished. On fire. We had to abandon ship. We limped through space in shuttlecraft for weeks before we were picked up. I haven't thought about this for years.
DATA: Sir, the Ferengi are standing by for us to take possession of the Stargazer.
PICARD: I want to go over to her.
RIKER: I understand, sir. As soon as my people have made certain she's safe.
CRUSHER: And after I have another look at you, Captain.

[Stargazer Bridge]
DATA: USS Stargazer. Constellation Class. Starfleet Registry NCC 2893.
LAFORGE: I activated the emergency power cells. Amazing they still work.
WORF: The rest of the ship is clear of surprises, Lieutenant Yar.
LAFORGE: I read about this ship at the Academy, I never dreamed I'd ever be on her.
TASHA: Yar to Enterprise. All clear, sir.
PICARD: Hello, old friend.
DATA: You'll find this most intriguing, sir.
PICARD: What did you find, Data?
DATA: The last entry dated nine years ago, sir. By you. We are forced to abandon our starship. May she find her way without us. Apparently she did, sir.
CRUSHER: How do you feel, Captain?
PICARD: Oh, I'm fine, Doctor. Lieutenant Yar, run a structural analysis on the Stargazer for an impulse tow. Data, download all computers to the Enterprise and file. I'm going to look at my old cabin.

[Stargazer Captain's quarters]
CRUSHER: Captain? Another headache? This really worries me. I want you back on the Enterprise.
PICARD: But my things
CRUSHER: I'll see they're sent to your Enterprise quarters.

[Ready Room]
RIKER: What is it, Data? Why all the mystery?
DATA: The records of the Stargazer, sir. What the Ferengi call the Battle of Maxia. It seems the Captain's personal log contains a much different version of that conflict than the official historic account.
RIKER: What are you saying?
DATA: It would appear that the starship which Captain Picard attacked, had in fact, been under a flag of truce.
RIKER: What?
DATA: And apparently, the Captain destroyed the ship without notice or provocation.
RIKER: Impossible. What about the fire aboard the Stargazer?
DATA: An accident in Engineering.
RIKER: And what proof?
DATA: It is logged in his own voice, sir. Would you care to hear it, sir? Sir?

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: This is a confession given by me, Jean-Luc Picard commanding USS Stargazer.
PICARD: What does this mean?
RIKER: I don't know, sir. It sounds like your voice.
PICARD: It is, Number One.
RIKER: I refuse to believe you ever said that.
PICARD: I admit I must have mistaken their subspace antenna for a weapons cluster. Unfortunately, I fired our main phasers and our direct hit destroyed the unknown vessel.
RIKER: I've assumed they've simulated your voice somehow. I've already put Data to work on it.
PICARD: Thank you, Will. I never made that log entry, of course, but it still leaves you with a duty to perform.
RIKER: I know, sir, I must report it to Starfleet. That's at least one full day for subspace communications to reach there.
PICARD: And one more full day for their answer to return. I'd like the truth on this by then. I'd hate to have to prepare a formal defense.
RIKER: I can't believe they'd ask for your command.
PICARD: Why wouldn't they? With the Ferengi making these friendship overtures, I could become a severe embarrassment to Starfleet.
RIKER: I'm certain the Ferengi are behind the faked log. No wonder they're waiting out there. Headache back, sir?
PICARD: Damn! I'll call the Doctor again.
RIKER: It's no wonder, with all this going on. Try to relax.
PICARD: This is a confession given by me, Jean-Luc Picard, commanding USS Stargazer, in the hopes that my belated honesty will be taken into account by Starfleet when judging my actions during a confrontation with an unidentified vessel.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Open hailing frequencies, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Open, sir.
RIKER: I'll take it in the Ready room. Secure channel, La Forge.
LAFORGE: Secure, Sir.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Yes? Who the hell is it?
CRUSHER: Not resting, Captain?
PICARD: More like dying, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Over here.
PICARD: What is wrong with me?
CRUSHER: I wish to hell I knew, Captain, but something unusual has definitely been happening to you.
PICARD: Why do doctors always say the obvious as though it's a revelation?
CRUSHER: Why do captains always act like they're immortal?
PICARD: No.

[Ready Room]
DATA: By comparing the Stargazer's main computer log with Captain Picard's personal log, I have found checksum diskrepancies, sir.
RIKER: What does that mean?
DATA: All information is time-coded by entry, and the bits when totaled produce an aggregate amount which
RIKER: I don't want a computer science lesson, Data. Bottom line.
DATA: One of these two logs is a forgery, sir.
LAFORGE: Correction. The log just found aboard the Stargazer is a forgery.
DATA: As I said, that is one of them, is it not?
LAFORGE: Captain. You're looking better, sir.
PICARD: A little sleep, thanks to the good Doctor, works wonders. What report on the logs?
DATA: Yes, sir. Whoever tampered with your personal log was clever.
LAFORGE: But a bit clumsy. It's definitely a fabrication, sir.
CRUSHER: Number One, I'd like you to take a look at this brain scan graph. What are you doing here?
PICARD: I thought I was Captain of this starship.
CRUSHER: Of course you are, but I
PICARD: Thank you for the confirmation, Doctor. But now, except for Riker, I would like you all to return to your stations. Is that clear?
DATA: Sir.
PICARD: You too, Doctor. I have business with the Commander.
CRUSHER: Under protest, Captain.
RIKER: You have orders for me, sir?
PICARD: Release the Stargazer from the tractor beam, Number One.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: The tractor beam.
RIKER: Sir, are you abandoning?
PICARD: No, but her inertia will carry the Stargazer along with us. Or did you sleep through the Academy lecture on conservation of tractor beam power?
RIKER: No, sir. I'll release her, of course.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Obviously, there's some thought process disorder, but I can't find a physical reason for it. Anything?
TROI: I'm puzzled too. I keep sensing random thoughts but two sets of them. As if they were his, but intermixed other thoughts which are also his.
CRUSHER: I'm busy at the moment, Wesley.
WESLEY: I know, Mom, but this is important. When I went back to the main sensors in Engineering to try some more sensitivity experiments
TROI: Does this have something to do with Captain Picard?
WESLEY: Yes, ma'am, if this is what you're talking about here. I don't know much about brain scans but I glanced at these when you were studying them, and I noticed that these patterns are the same as those picked up from the low-intensity transmissions from the Ferengi ship. I went back and checked, and they're exactly the same.
TROI: What kind of transmissions?
WESLEY: I don't know. Engineering has nothing like it on record.
TROI: Let's get to the Captain.
CRUSHER: No, they might be affecting the Captain. To Riker.
WESLEY: You're welcome, ladies. Adults.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Stargazer, Captain, respond!
TASHA: Shields up, sir. No way to beam over any help.
LAFORGE: Commander, I'm reading something very strange here. A low intensity beam of intermittent pulse inside this starship.
DATA: I have a fix on it, sir. Inside Captain Picard's quarters.
TASHA: You transferred some of his belongings from the Stargazer?
WORF: Yes. Including a fairly heavy chest.
RIKER: Go take a look, fast!
LAFORGE: Commander, Stargazer is now powering up, sir.

[Stargazer Bridge]
PICARD: Ready phasers.
RIKER: Captain Picard, listen to me.
PICARD: Vigo, is that you?
RIKER: It's Commander Riker, sir!
RIKER: Captain, hear me! Look around you, the Ferengi are using their thought devices on you.
PICARD: Stand by. Who is this?
RIKER: It's Riker, sir. Your Number One. Look for a silver sphere. Destroy it with your phaser.
PICARD: Phaser. A sphere. Bok used it.
RIKER: Destroy it!
PICARD: Phaser. Destroy the sphere. Destroy the sphere.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Are you all right, Captain?

[Stargazer Bridge]
RIKER: Captain? Captain, are you all right? Captain, are you all right?
PICARD: Where am I, Number One?
RIKER: Aboard the Stargazer, sir. The sphere you destroyed, it's been controlling your
PICARD: Bok! Where is Bok?
RIKER: Removed from command, sir. Placed under guard for his act of personal vengeance. Seems there was no profit in it.
PICARD: In revenge, there never is. Let the dead rest. And the past remain the past. Enterprise, lock on. Beam me home, Riker.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Include a burn unit with each kit. Upon arrival, identify the most critically injured and beam them up to cargo bay six.
PICARD: Doctor Crusher, this is the Captain.
CRUSHER: Doctor Crusher here.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Additional information. The number of colonists at the site is five hundred and four. Are you prepared for that many, Doctor?
CRUSHER: We believe so, sir.
LAFORGE: Captain, we are now at warp nine point one, sir.
DATA: Which will bring us to the colony in three point two hours, sir.
RIKER: Captain, I have a schematic of the explosion site. It suggests the cause as a methane-like gas seeping in from underground.
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm picking up a forcefield out there of some kind. It's almost
DATA: The Q entity, sir. It is identical to the grid we encountered when
WORF: It reads solid, sir.
PICARD: Emergency. Full stop.
LAFORGE: Reversing power, sir.
PICARD: Not now, damn it, Q.
TASHA: Shields and deflectors up, sir.
LAFORGE: Now reading full stop, sir.
Q: Humans, I thought by now you would have scampered back to your own little star system.
PICARD: If this is Q I'm addressing, we are on a mission of rescue where a group of badly injured
Q: We the Q have studied our recent contact with you, and are impressed. We have much to discuss, including perhaps the realization of your most impossible dream.
PICARD: However intriguing that may be, we are now in the midst of an urgent journey. Once that is completed, then, perhaps
Q: You will abandon that mission, Captain. My business with you takes precedence. If my magnificence blinds you, then perhaps something more familiar.
Q: Starfleet Admiral Q, at your service.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. Our rescue mission to the Sigma Three solar system has been halted by an immense grid and an untimely visit from Q

[Bridge]
PICARD: You're no Starfleet Admiral, Q.
Q: Neither am I an Aldebaran serpent, Captain, but you accepted me as such.
RIKER: He's got us there, Captain.
Q: The redoubtable Commander Riker, whom I noticed before. You seem to find this all very amusing.
RIKER: I might, if we weren't on our way to help some suffering and dying humans who
Q: Your species is always suffering and dying.
PICARD: No, Lieutenant Worf. You'll make no move against him unless I order it.
Q: Pity. You might have learned an interesting lesson. Macro head with a micro brain.
PICARD: You said you had the realization of impossible dreams to offer us. When this rescue is completed, I am prepared to listen carefully to whatever proposal you wish to make and subject to it being acceptable
Q: Subject to your foolish human values? Oh, come, Picard. Why do you distrust me so?
PICARD: Why? At our first meeting you seized my vessel. You condemned all humans as savages, and on that charge you tried us in a post-atomic twenty first century court of horrors, where you attacked my people. You again seized my vessel.
Q: And that angered you, did it? Seized my vessel, seized my vessel.
PICARD: You interfered with our Farpoint mission. You threatened to convict us as ignorant savages, if, while dealing with a powerful and complex life forms, we made the slightest mistake, and when that didn't happen
Q: The Q became interested in you. Does no one here understand your incredible good fortune? Seized my vessel. These are the complaints of a closed mind too accustomed to military privileges. But you, Riker, and I remember you well, what do you make of my offer?
RIKER: We don't have time for these games.
Q: Games? Did someone say games? And perchance for interest's sake, a deadly game? To the game.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Where are we?
DATA: Obviously a class M world. Gravity and oxygen within our limits.
LAFORGE: Twin moons. Where are we?
DATA: Considering the power demonstrated by Q the last time, anywhere. Assuming this place even exists.
RIKER: But this won't be boring. If Q is anything, he's imaginative. Apparently our Captain wasn't meant to be with us here.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Security, this is the Captain. Security? Engineering, this is the Bridge.
PICARD: Turbolift Control, do you read? This is the Captain.

[Planet surface]
TASHA: Sir! Over here.
Q: Join me, Riker. A good game needs rules and planning. Wasn't it your own Hartley who said, nothing reveals humanity so well as the games it plays? Almost right. Actually, you reveal yourselves best in how you play.
DATA: Sir, what he has in mind might provide us with vital information.
RIKER: Incredible. I was just thinking about an old-fashioned lemonade.
Q: And so it became that. An excellent thirst quencher. It gets rather hot out on this plain.
RIKER: What about my people?
Q: Whatever they'd like, of course!
Q: Drink not with thine enemy. The rigid Klingon code. That explains something of why you defeated them.
RIKER: You're still fascinated with the human past? Perhaps you're not that original.
Q: Au contraire! It's the human future which intrigues us, and should concern you most. You see, of all species, yours cannot abide stagnation. Change is at the heart of what you are. But change into what? That's the question.
DATA: That is what humans call a truism.
Q: You mean hardly original?
RIKER: You're the one who said it. While we're at it, this isn't part of any human future.
Q: True. I borrowed this from your stodgy Captain's mind. This is dressing for a game that we will play. Now games require rules and rewards and dangers and familiar settings. That sort of thing.
RIKER: This isn't that familiar to me. Data?
DATA: This is from Europe's Napoleonic era, sir. Late eighteenth, early nineteenth centuries. This is a campaign headquarters tent, his uniform is that of a French Army marshal.
RIKER: And a marshal outranks even an Admiral
Q: Well, do you think I would go from a Starfleet Admiral to anything else?
RIKER: Of course you wouldn't. But Napoleonic equipment on an alien planet. One so different it has twin moons?
Q: Well, as you said, I'm nothing if not imaginative. And the game should reflect that. Shall it be a test of strength? Meaningless, since you have none. A test of intelligence, then? Equally as meaningless. But it needs risk, something to win and something to lose.
RIKER: If we must play a game, what would we win?
Q: The greatest possible future that you can imagine. Which, of course, requires something totally disastrous if you lose. Now the point of this game shall be, can any of you can stay alive?
WORF: If your game is fair, we will.
Q: Oh, for shame, Worf. Fairness is such a human concept. Think imaginatively! This game shall in fact be completely unfair.
TASHA: You've gone too far!
Q: Game penalty!
RIKER: Where is she, Q? You can forget your game if
Q: To use a twentieth century term, she's in a penalty box. Where she will remain unharmed unless one of you merits a penalty. Unfortunately, there is only one penalty box. If any of you should be sent there, dear Tasha must give the box up to you.
LAFORGE: And where does she go?
Q: Into nothingness. I entreat you to carefully obey the rules of the game. The only one who can destroy your Tasha now is you.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Captain's log
PICARD: Captain's log
PICARD: Damn it. I can't even make a log entry.
TASHA: I wish I could help you, Captain.
PICARD: Where is everyone else?
TASHA: Down on some planet.
PICARD: Some planet? What are you doing here?
TASHA: Well, I, er. It sounds strange, but I'm in a penalty box.
PICARD: A penalty box?
TASHA: Q's penalty box. It sounds strange, but it definitely isn't. I know that one more penalty by anyone and I'm gone.
PICARD: Gone?
TASHA: Yes! I am gone! It is so frustrating to be controlled like this!
PICARD: Lieutenant. Tasha, it's all right.
TASHA: What the hell am I doing? Crying?
PICARD: Don't worry. There's a new ship's standing order on the Bridge. When one is in the penalty box, tears are permitted.
TASHA: Captain. Oh, if you weren't a captain.
Q: Consorting with lower rank females, Captain? Especially ones in penalty boxes? Destructive to diskipline, they say. But then again, you're what? You're only human? Penalty over.
PICARD: A marshal of France? Ridiculous!
Q: One takes what jobs he can get. For example, star log entry, stardate today. This is Q, speaking for Captain Jean-Luc Picard, who we consider too bound by Starfleet customs and traditions to be useful to us. The Enterprise is now helpless, stuck like an Earth insect in amber while its bridge crew plays out a game whose real intent is to test whether the First Officer is worthy of the greatest gift the Q can offer.
PICARD: So you're taking on Riker this time. Excellent. He'll defeat you just as I did.
Q: Shall we wager on that, Captain? Your starship command against?
PICARD: Against your keeping out of humanity's path for ever. Done?
Q: Done! You've already lost, Picard. Riker will be offered something impossible to refuse.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Geordi, can you see Worf?
LAFORGE: I'd see the freckles on his nose if he had them, sir. He's at the third ridge.
DATA: The third ridge?
LAFORGE: Moving well too. Oh, oh. Good, he sees them.

[Ready Room]
PICARD: Listen to me, Q. You seem to have some need for humans.
Q: Concern regarding them.
PICARD: Whatever it is, why do you demonstrate it through this confrontation? Why not a simple, direct explanation, a statement of what you seek? Why these games?
Q: Why these games? Why, the play's the thing. And I'm surprised you have to ask when your human Shakespeare explained it all so well.
PICARD: So he did, but don't depend too much on any single viewpoint
Q: It's a pity you don't know the content of your own library. Hear this, Picard, and reflect. All the galaxy's a stage.
PICARD: World, not galaxy. All the world's a stage.
Q: Oh, you know that one? Well, if he were living now he would have said galaxy. How about this? Life is but a walking shadow, a poor player that struts and frets his hour upon the stage and then is heard no more. It is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.
PICARD: I see. So how we respond to a game tells you more about us than our real life, this tale told by an idiot? Interesting, Q.
Q: Oh, thank you very much. I'm glad you enjoyed it. Perhaps maybe a little Hamlet?
PICARD: Oh, no. I know Hamlet. And what he might said with irony, I say with conviction. What a piece of work is man. How noble in reason. How infinite in faculty. In form, in moving, how express and admirable. In action, how like an angel. In apprehension, how like a god.
Q: Surely you don't really see your species like that, do you?
PICARD: I see us one day becoming that, Q. Is it that what concerns you?

[Planet]
LAFORGE: Those soldiers have formed a skirmishing line, I think you'd call it, and they're headed this way.
RIKER: Armed with ancient ball and powder muskets?
LAFORGE: That's what their weapons look like, sir.
DATA: Muskets are appropriate to the 1790 to 1800 French army uniform, sir. But it is hardly a weapon by our standards. A lead ball propelled by gunpowder. One hundred meters at best with any accuracy.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but against phasers? Just one of our hand phasers could finish off an entire regiment.
RIKER: Except for one thing. It hardly sounds like Q to give us an advantage like that. Unless.
WORF: Drop your weapons!
RIKER: I'm afraid that was me, Worf. I was checking to see if the phasers still operate.
LAFORGE: Incredible, Worf! You came out of nowhere.
WORF: A warrior's reaction.
RIKER: Report. What did you find?
WORF: Sir, what they're wearing may be old Earth uniforms, but what's inside of them isn't human at all. More like vicious animal things.
LAFORGE: Those soldiers are moving in fast, sir.
RIKER: Data, if you've got a theory about what's happening?
Q: Think fast, Commander Riker, and move fast.
RIKER: Those aren't muskets.
Q: You have only one chance to save them now. Send them back to the ship.
RIKER: You'll let me beam them?
Q: Send them the same way as I do. I've given you that power. Do you understand? I have given you the power of the Q. Use it.
Q: Use your power.
Q: Use your power.

[Planet surface]
Q: Something amuses you? Perhaps you'll share the joke with me?
RIKER: The joke is you.
Q: Strange gratitude, from one who has been granted a gift beyond any human dream. How can you not appreciate being able to send your friends back to their ship, or sending the soldiers back to the nothingness from which they came? Certainly, you must understand that at this moment you can send yourself back to the ship or to Earth, or change your shape and become anything else you want to be.
RIKER: What do you need, Q?
Q: Need?
RIKER: You want something from us, desperately. What is it?
Q: Want something from you foolish, fragile, non-entities? Oh come, Riker. You're beginning to sound like your Captain.
RIKER: Now that's a compliment, Q. But that's not an answer.
Q: Riker, we have offered you a gift beyond all other gifts!
RIKER: Out of the goodness of your heart.
Q: After Farpoint, I returned to where we exist. The Q Continuum.
RIKER: Which means exactly what?
Q: The limitless dimensions of the galaxy in which we exist.
RIKER: I don't understand.
Q: Of course you don't, and you never will until you become one of us.
RIKER: Until? Would you mind going over that again?
Q: Well if you'll stop interrupting me. This is hardly a time to be teaching you the true nature of the universe. However, at Farpoint we saw you as savages only. We discovered instead that you are unusual creatures in your own limited ways. Ways which in time will not be so limited.
RIKER: We're growing. Something about us compels us to learn, explore.
Q: Yes, the human compulsion. And unfortunately for us, it is a power which will grow stronger century after century, eon after eon.
RIKER: Eons. Have you any idea how far we'll advance?
Q: Perhaps in a future that you cannot yet conceive, even beyond us. So you see, we must know more about this human condition. That's why we've selected you, Riker, to become part of the Q, so that you can bring to us this human need and hunger, that we may understand it.
RIKER: I suppose you mean that as a compliment, Q. Or maybe it's my limited mind. But to become a part of you? I don't even like you.
Q: You're going to miss me!
LAFORGE: Come on, not again!
WESLEY: Commander Riker, what's going on? I was sitting in school and
TASHA: Worf, my phaser's gone. Are you armed?
WORF: No.
PICARD: Where is Q? If you have any answer to any of this?
WESLEY: Worf!
RIKER: Look out!
PICARD: Wesley, no!
RIKER: Wesley!
PICARD: Wesley!
RIKER: No! Damn it! Damn it to hell!
PICARD: Riker. You! You did that!
RIKER: And that's not all!

[Bridge]
PICARD: That grid, their wounds. Only the Q can do that.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 41591.4. Twelve minutes out from Quadra Sigma Three where the survivors of an underground disaster desperately need our help. Aboard the Enterprise, First Officer William T. Riker needs help nearly as badly. But this is a subject far out of my experience. Out of any human's experience.

[Ready Room]
PICARD: Will. How the hell do I advise you? You know the implications as well as I.
RIKER: No one has ever offered to turn me into a god before.
PICARD: What the Q has offered you has got to be close to immortality, Will. They're not lying about controlling space and time. We've seen it in what they can do.
RIKER: You've also seen it in what I can do.
PICARD: If you are going to refuse his offer, you must not allow yourself to use this power again. It's too great a temptation for us at our present stage of development.
RIKER: Are you worried that I won't be able to say no to it?
PICARD: You tell me. Are you strong enough to refuse to use that power.
RIKER: Certainly.
PICARD: No matter how tempted? No matter how difficult Q makes it for you?
RIKER: You have my word.
PICARD: Good. I know what your word means.
DATA: In orbit of Quadra Sigma Three, sir. Ready to beam down rescue team to underground emergency area.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I should never have made that agreement with you. I could have saved that child.
PICARD: You were right not to try. Once you became accustomed to that power, Number One.
RIKER: When I used it before, what happened? I saved most of our Bridge crew.
PICARD: And when you grow to like it too much?
RIKER: As soon as it's convenient Captain, I want a meeting with you and your Bridge staff.
PICARD: As soon as we are secure of this rescue operation, I'll discuss all of this new power
PICARD: We can confer here on the Bridge, if no one has any objections.
RIKER: The Bridge will be fine, since I've called the entire staff.
PICARD: Correction, Number One. Knowing the decision you face, I have permitted you this gathering.
RIKER: Of course, Jean-Luc.
RIKER: Wesley, this meeting is not for you.
WESLEY: Why not, sir? You helped make me a Bridge officer. Acting Ensign.
RIKER: All right, he stays. Because I've been given unusual powers, I am not suddenly a monster. Except for these abilities, and I don't yet know how far they go, I'm the same William T. Riker you've always known. Well? Everyone still looks uncomfortable.
PICARD: Perhaps they're all remembering that old saying. Power corrupts.
RIKER: And absolute power corrupts absolutely. Do you believe I haven't thought of that, Jean-Luc?
PICARD: And have you noticed how you and I are now on a first name basis? Number One, Will, something has happened already.
RIKER: In what way? Haven't you seen how much I regretted not saving that child? Using the Q power to save her may not have been wrong. No more than it was wrong to save the rest of you from those soldier things.
PICARD: Let's keep in mind that that particular danger was invented by Q.
TASHA: What we represent to the Q, Commander, are lowly animals, tormented into performing for their amusement.
RIKER: Actually, they think highly of us, Tasha. We have a quality of growth which they admire.
LAFORGE: Or fear.
PICARD: No, we've learned the Q do not admire us. The Q has muddled your mind.
RIKER: Don't you understand his incredible gift to me?
Q: Are these truly your friends, brother?
Q: Let us pray. For understanding and for compassion.
PICARD: Let us do no such damned thing! What is this need of yours for costumes, Q? Have you no identity of your own?
Q: I come in search of the truth.
PICARD: You come in search of what humanity is!
Q: I forgive your blasphemy.
PICARD: Don't you see, Riker? He's nothing but a flim-flam man! He's been that ever since we first met him at Farpoint.
WORF: Flim-flam?
Q: You offer Riker jealousy. What I offer him is clearly beyond your comprehension. How can you claim friendship for Riker while obstructing his way to the greatest adventure ever offered a human?
PICARD: Obstructing him? Then it's not yet certain. He's not yet committed.
Q: The truly evil part of this, Captain, is your jealousy. You love each one of your people. Demonstrate it. You have the power to leave each of them with a gift proving your affection.
RIKER: There'd be no harm, would there, if I gave them something I know they'd like?
Q: How touching. A plea to his former Captain. May I please give some happiness to my friends, sir? Please sir?
PICARD: In fact I authorize and support your idea, Riker. Please, feel free to cooperate with him if you wish.
DATA: Are you certain, sir?
PICARD: Quite certain, Data. By all means, demonstrate your gifts of affection.
RIKER: Don't be frightened. There is no way I could harm any of you. Shall I guess your dreams?
CRUSHER: Leave now, Wesley.
RIKER: No! Wesley, I may know best of all. Our friendship, our long talks
CRUSHER: No, please!
RIKER: Have your favorite wish, my young friend.
RIKER: You're ten years older. A man.
LAFORGE: Hey, Wes. Not bad.
RIKER: Data.
DATA: No. No, sir.
RIKER: But it's what you've always wanted, Data, to become human.
DATA: Yes, sir, that is true. But I never wanted to compound one illusion with another. It might be real to Q, perhaps even you, sir. But it would not be so to me. Was it not one of the Captain's favorite authors who wrote, This above all, to thine own self be true? Sorry, Commander, I must decline.
RIKER: Well, my friend, I know what you want.
LAFORGE: You're as beautiful as I imagined, and more.
RIKER: Then we can throw away the visor?
LAFORGE: I don't think so, sir. The price is a little high for me, and I don't like who I would have to thank. Make me the way I was. Please!
RIKER: Proud warrior Worf, without a single tie to his own kind.
WORF: No! She is from a world now alien to me!
LAFORGE: Worf, is this your idea of sex?
WORF: This is sex. But I have no place for it in my life now.
Q: No place, micro-brain? What possesses you?
WESLEY: Commander Riker, it's too soon for this.
RIKER: If this is because your mother objects?
WESLEY: No. I just want to get there on my own. Honest.
Q: But it's easier, boy. Listen to Riker.
RIKER: How did you know, sir? I feel like such an idiot.
PICARD: Quite right. So you should. It's all over, Q. You have no further business here.
Q: Human, you have just destroyed yourself.
PICARD: Pay off your wager.
Q: I recall no wager!
PICARD: I'm sure your fellow Q remember you agreed to never trouble our species again. Just as they're aware you failed to tempt a human to join you.
Q: No, if I could just do one more thing.
PICARD: Q, I strongly suspect it's some explaining you have to do now.
PICARD: Extraordinary!
LAFORGE: Captain, we are showing that same hole in time again. Our instruments say we've just now beamed back from our rescue mission.
DATA: Sir, how is it that the Q can handle time and space so well, and us so badly?
PICARD: Perhaps some day we will discover that space and time are simpler than the human equation. No coordinates laid in, Number One?
RIKER: Yes, sir. You have my coordinates, La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. On the board.
PICARD: Engage.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: All the medical information the Admiral provided is satisfactory, sir.
PICARD: Excellent, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Except for one thing. The test results he gave me aren't two days old, they're two months old. The medical file coder always includes the date as part of the file number. He lied to me, sir, and I don't know why.
PICARD: He is eighty five years old, Doctor. For some, the memory begins to fail.
CRUSHER: He suffers from Iverson's Disease, sir. It affects the body, not the mind. No, I have a gut feeling he's hiding something.
PICARD: That is an observation I'd expect from Counselor Troi. Doctor. Doctor, I do respect your opinion, and I'll want you on the Bridge for the next day or so. The Admiral must remain in the best of health for these negotiations, and he might require your services.

[Ready room]
PICARD: The admiral displayed a remarkable improvement out there, wouldn't you say?
CRUSHER: Captain, no one recovers from Iverson's Disease. There is no known cure, and there are no cases where it has gone into remission. I have never heard of any therapy that would produce results like that.
PICARD: Then how do you account for it?
CRUSHER: I can't. All I can tell you is that the Admiral has been confined to his support chair for the last four years by the effects of Iverson's. By all the medical facts we know, he should never have walked again.
PICARD: I want you to look into it, Doctor. Thoroughly.
CRUSHER: Yes, sir.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: I found traces of chemical substances in his blood and tissue samples, but none of them are in our pharmacopeia. I'm still working on alien references to substances like these. All I can tell you is that he's ingested something that's strongly affecting his body.
PICARD: Specifics, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Captain, there are so many things going on, I can't give you specifics until I do a lot more tests.
PICARD: Give me what you have now.
CRUSHER: His red cell count is running riot. The cellular structure of his body is radically changing, but we can't make any decisions on that until we know what it's changing to. His DNA is skewed. Don't ask me how, but he even looks younger. And Captain, there are absolutely no traces of Iverson's Disease.
PICARD: You said there is no cure for Iverson's.
CRUSHER: None that we know of. But whatever these substances are doing to his body, at least they've done that for him. But how or why? It's too early to say.
PICARD: Get me some answers, Doctor. As soon as possible.
CRUSHER: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: One moment, Mister Data. Admiral, this is Picard. May I know the reason for this communication?

[Bridge]
PICARD: You said Karnas was a proud man, Admiral, probably sensitive about his failure to deal with this situation. Is it wise to press him on this?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Make it so.
DATA: Aye, sir. Frequency open and secured.

[Sickbay]
TROI: Requests your presence in Sickbay immediately, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I'm on my way.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Sickbay.

[Bridge]
RIKER: If we don't deliver Jameson in five minutes, one of the hostages will be executed.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: Fifteen minutes after that, another.

[Bridge]
RIKER: He promises the method of execution will be most painful.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: The hostages have been freed by Karnas, unharmed, and the body of Admiral Mark Jameson has been buried on Mordan, at the request of his widow and by the permission of Karnas. The quest for youth, Number One. So futile. Age and wisdom have their graces too.
RIKER: I wonder if one doesn't have to have age and wisdom to appreciate that, sir.
PICARD: I hope not, Number One. Mister La Forge, prepare to take us out of orbit. Set course for Isis Three.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Leaving orbit.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Unless it's followed by?
TROI: The double bars indicate an elongated S sound.
PICARD: And the inverted T means to hold the Z.
TROI: Unless?
PICARD: Unless it's followed by three wavy lines, in which case the Z becomes a B.
TROI: Exactly.
PICARD: What a language.
TROI: But you spell knife with a K.
PICARD: I spell knife with an N. But then, I never could spell.
TROI: Well, this is an insect mind, sir.
PICARD: My mind is barely working.
TROI: Take a break.
PICARD: No, no. I want to go over this again.
TROI: You could be over-preparing. You've been looking forward to the upgrade of the holodeck. You have the time. Captain, you need the diversion.
PICARD: Dixon Hill.
TROI: The program's installled and waiting.

[Observation Lounge]
PICARD: And when I looked down into the street, I actually saw automobiles!
WORF: Automobiles?
DATA: An ancient Earth device used primarily for transportation.
WORF: Ah.
DATA: Also seen as a source of status and virility. Often a prime ingredient in teenage mating rituals.
WESLEY: Teenage mating rituals?
PICARD: From that window, I could see an entire, er
DATA: City block.
PICARD: That's right. Sounds, Smells.
CRUSHER: You make it sound so real.
PICARD: That's how it felt.
CRUSHER: Incredible.
PICARD: I'm going to go again, only this time I'm going to dress the part. Why not come with me?
CRUSHER: Yes, I'd like that.
PICARD: I want to take that twentieth century historian.
CRUSHER: Who? Whalen?
PICARD: Yes, Whalen. I bet he knows more about Dixon Hill than I do.
DATA: Shall I tell him, sir?
PICARD: Invite him, Mister Data. This is supposed to be a recreational activity. The sense of reality was absolutely incredible. When that woman kissed me, it was so
CRUSHER: Exciting?
PICARD: Real. The subject of this meeting is the Jaradan rendezvous. Mister Riker, will you go ahead with the briefing.
RIKER: This is primarily a diplomatic mission. The Jaradan are strategically important to the Federation. Previous attempts have failed because they are so easily irritated. A slip in the pronunciation of the greeting caused a twenty year rift.
TROI: The Captain has to recite the entire greeting without making any mistakes.
LAFORGE: Simple as that, huh?
DATA: Yes. If, on the other hand, the Captain makes even the slightest error
TROI: The Captain is well aware of the gravity of the situation, Commander.
DATA: We are all aware of the tape of the last Federation starship to come in contact with the Jaradan. It graphically demonstrates what happened when that Captain offended them.
TROI: Captain Picard is familiar with that, Data.
DATA: Should we not rerun it?
PICARD: It's not necessary, Mister Data. Meeting adjourned.

[Corridor]
DATA: Why would the Captain not want to review all available information on the subject?
LAFORGE: Data, when you've seen the Jaradan react once, you don't ever have to see it again.
DATA: This Dixon Hill is a most puzzling character.
LAFORGE: Not really. He was just a twentieth-century Sherlock Holmes.
DATA: Ah, but was his modus operandi not dissimilar? Worth investigating.
LAFORGE: Indubitably, my dear Data. Indubitably.

[Outside Holodeck]
LAFORGE: LaForge to Bridge.
RIKER: Riker here.
LAFORGE: I can't find the Captain, sir.
RIKER: I told you, he's in the holodeck.
LAFORGE: I'm at the holodeck. Something's gone wrong.
RIKER: What are you saying?
LAFORGE: I can't communicate with him, I can't access the program, and I can't open the doors. Enterprise log, supplemental. First Officer reporting. Due to an unknown breakdown in the holodeck, we are unable to contact the Captain.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Tasha, take over. I'm going to holodeck three.
WESLEY: Commander? I've studied all the technical manuals on the holodecks, sir. I think I can be of some help down there.
RIKER: Geordi's well equipped to deal with the situation, Wes. Right now, your duty's here on the Bridge.
TROI: Will. His mother's missing too.
RIKER: Come on, Wesley.

[Outside Holodeck]
RIKER: Have you tried the intercom?
LAFORGE: Yes.
RIKER: Riker to holodeck. Riker to holodeck!
RIKER: Are you seeing anything?
WESLEY: No, sir.
RIKER: What can I do?
LAFORGE: Not a thing. We have to go through this millimeter by millimeter.
RIKER: All right. Get it fixed.
LAFORGE: Easy, Wes. Slow it down. If there's an anomaly, you could go right past it, okay?

[Outside holodeck]
TASHA: Bridge to holodeck. We're approaching the Jaradan sector.
RIKER: Any word from the Jaradans?
TASHA: Not a thing, sir.
RIKER: They may be testing us. Seeing if we'll stick to the arrangements.
TASHA: What do we do now, sir?
RIKER: We wait.
LAFORGE: Well, everything checks out so far. Ensign Crusher believes the trouble may have been caused by the Jaradan probe. If so, it could be very difficult to locate.

[Hall]
DATA: Computer, identify exit.

[Hill's office]
DATA: There is a programming malfunction. The computer refuses to identify the exits.
CRUSHER: I'm losing his pulse!
PICARD: Computer, this is the Captain! Computer, identify exit!

[Bridge]
RIKER: Standard orbit, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir. Standard orbit.
RIKER: Riker to Holodeck.
LAFORGE: Nothing yet, Commander.
RIKER: We're running out of time.

[Outside holodeck]
RIKER: The Jarada will expect the Captain's greeting.
LAFORGE: Well you may have to stall them.

[Bridge]
TROI: We can't delay much longer.
RIKER: We're going to have to tell them something. Open hailing frequencies.
TASHA: Frequencies open, sir.
RIKER: This is Commander Riker, aboard the Enterprise. We demand that you Cut that off! They're not going to be satisfied with anyone less than the Captain.

[Outside Holodeck]
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge.
RIKER: Riker here.
LAFORGE: We think we have something, sir. I'll let Ensign Crusher explain.
WESLEY: The bi-converter interface has been affected

[Bridge]
RIKER: Forget the explanation! Can you do it?

[Outside Holodeck]
WESLEY: I don't know if I should. If this isn't done correctly, the program could abort and everyone inside could vanish.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Do you need more time to study it?
WESLEY: Whether we do it now or later, the risk is the same.
RIKER: Do it.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Sir, we are now twenty minutes from Omicron Theta, mark!
RIKER: Stand by for subwarp. Head for standard orbit of Data's planet. I wonder why Data hasn't come up here.
PICARD: He said he wanted to be alone. Perhaps it's a bigger moment for him than we thought.

[Data's Quarters]
DATA: Aah, ahh, ahh
WESLEY: Data!
DATA: Choo!
WESLEY: What are you doing?
DATA: Sneezing.
WESLEY: Have you got a cold?
DATA: A cold what?
WESLEY: It's a disease my mom says people used to get.
DATA: Ah. But humans still sneeze for other reasons and I cannot seem to do it right.
WESLEY: How can you be practicing something like sneezing when we're arriving at your home planet for the first time? Aren't you interested in that?
DATA: More than interested. Fascinated. One might say agog. But I also find sneezing interesting.
WESLEY: Captain Picard wishes to see you on the Bridge.

[Bridge]
TASHA: Captain, confirming class M reading there. But the sensors aren't showing any life readings. Not even vegetation.
PICARD: Strange. The cruiser that found Data reported farmlands here.
RIKER: Do you want to take her into orbit, Data?
DATA: No, thank you, sir.
PICARD: Continue on into close parking orbit.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
DATA: I could say home sweet home, sir, if I understood how the word sweet applies.
PICARD: It usually refers to the memories.
RIKER: It usually refers to one's own memories, Captain. Do the memories you were given include farms, Data?
DATA: Affirmative, sir. But the colony's principal interest was science.
TASHA: Data, I can't understand how you can hold the memories of four hundred and eleven people. If that means every experience, every day of their life?
DATA: It does not, unfortunately. It means only the knowledge they had accumulated. Actually, I am quite deficient in some basic human information. Sneezing, for example.
PICARD: Sneezing?
LAFORGE: Approaching close parking orbit, sir.
PICARD: Assemble your away party, Commander. This must be an exciting moment for you, Mister Data. I'm tempted to lead the away team myself, except that my First Officer would object.
RIKER: How would Starfleet judge me if I didn't? An entire Earth colony did disappear down there.
PICARD: You see?
LAFORGE: Now in close parking orbit, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, welcome home. First Officer's log, stardate 4124.5. We have found Data's home to be a completely dead world made out of lifeless vegetation. No insects, not even soil bacteria. What is it that could kill everything on an entire planet?

[Planet surface]
TASHA: Recording signal locked onto the Enterprise, sir.
RIKER: This looks like anything but farmland.
LAFORGE: Agreed, sir. The soil appears almost completely lifeless.
RIKER: This is the exact position listed in the Tripoli log. Do you recognize anything, Data?
DATA: The land contours are familiar, sir. Topographically, this is the correct area.
LAFORGE: This once was rich farmland. I'd say something like twenty to thirty years ago.
DATA: I was discovered twenty six years ago.
LAFORGE: Commander, I'd say that everything on this planet was either dead or dying at the time Data was found.
DATA: I was found twenty meters in that direction, sir.
TASHA: Data, any idea at all why you were given the colonists' memories?
DATA: I have always felt that it was done hurriedly, but I know little more. Here, sir. This is where the cruiser's landing party found the signal device that had led them here. And they found me lying there, sir.
TASHA: You were just lying out there in the open? No identity record, no instructions?
DATA: Only a layer of dust.
RIKER: What's the first thing you remember, Data?
DATA: Opening my eyes. Looking into the eyes of the Tripoli landing party. They believed that the signal device sensed their presence and activated me.
TASHA: Then this very spot was your birthplace.
LAFORGE: Commander, I think I've got this place figured out here. This was really very cleverly done to make this look like a natural hollow in the terrain here. There are signs of it being constructed in a hurry as if to hide something here.
DATA: Yes, that was it, Geordi. This wakens a memory remnant of how the colonists hoped to remain hidden, but their fear of being discovered led to their storing information in me.
LAFORGE: Yeah, thought so.

[Underground Complex]
TASHA: No life readings in here either, sir.

[Laboratory]
RIKER: The colony laboratory. Extremely well equipped. Does this stir any memories, Data?
DATA: Only a vague impression of some of my functions being tested here.
RIKER: Posted by proud parents?
DATA: It depicts something that feels familiar, sir. And dangerous. But I have no idea what it represents. And that is all. Except for an impression of this being a Doctor Soong's work area.
RIKER: Who? You don't mean Doctor Noonien Soong?
DATA: He was called that here, but his memories indicate he traveled here under a different name.
LAFORGE: Doctor Noonien Soong, my friend, happens to have been Earth's foremost robotics scientist.
TASHA: Until he tried to make Asimov's dream of a positronic brain come true.
RIKER: A positronic brain. He promised so much. And then when he failed completely, Doctor Soong disappeared. Now we know he went somewhere else to try a second time. Data, Geordi, we'll get a close look at this lab. You and Lieutenant Worf reconnoiter where these corridors lead.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: Data, it's you.
RIKER: An epidermal mold. Made to give your exterior the desired finish.
TASHA: Lieutenant Yar to Commander Riker.
RIKER: Come in, Lieutenant.
TASHA: Sir, this installlation is big enough to hold hundreds of people. But all that's here now is empty beds.
RIKER: Thank you, Lieutenant. Complete your record scans and report back here.
LAFORGE: Commander Riker, looks like some sort of storage area.
RIKER: How many more Datas are there?
LAFORGE: Looks like just these two. I mean, that and the real Data.
DATA: Commander, can this be another me? Or possibly my brother?
RIKER: I honestly don't know, Data.
DATA: He needs assembling.
RIKER: He? Data, we don't know that this can become alive.
DATA: It is very important for me to know that, sir. I never dreamed it was possible I might find some link with some form like my own.
RIKER: Understood. We'll take it back to the ship with us.
PICARD: Captain's log, Stardate 41242.45. Despite having only a few hours in which to explore Data's home planet we've discovered something which may explain Data's beginnings, if we can properly assemble and communicate with what we've found.

[Observation Lounge]
PICARD: Bringing it up here was the right thing to do, Number One. We were just saying, Data, that if your duplicate functions, it might answer a lot of questions.
RIKER: Does it appear to have all your parts?
DATA: Completely, sir.
LAFORGE: Will we know how to turn it on?
PICARD: All right, all right. Legitimate questions about any of this need not be asked apologetically. You feel uncomfortable about aspects of your duplicate, Data. We feel uncomfortable too, and for no logical reason. If it feels awkward to be reminded that Data is a machine, just remember that we are merely a different variety of machine. In our case, electrochemical in nature. Let's begin to handle this as we would do anything else.
LAFORGE: Agreed, Captain.
PICARD: Let's begin with you, Data.
DATA: Well, sir, a good starting point may be, why was I given human form?
LAFORGE: Well, to make it easier for humans to relate to you. Had to be. But your designer may have had something else to prove as well.
PICARD: That human-shaped robots need not be clumsy or limited. You certainly operate as well as we do, Data
DATA: Better in some ways, sir.
RIKER: You might want to have a look at this, Captain. Could be a link to the disappearance of the colonists. It was displayed in the lab, no doubt by proud parents. It could be just a child's imagination, but several children did similar drawings.
CRUSHER: Doctor Crusher to Captain. At this point, sir, we very much need Mister Data's help.
PICARD: He's on his way, Doctor.

[Ready Room]
PICARD: I'm also a bit troubled by it describing you as imperfect.
DATA: Human language gives me difficulty too, sir. Imperfect could mean I lack certain abilities he possesses.
PICARD: I wonder. But the point of this is, whether you and it have approximately the same capabilities.
DATA: We do, sir, and your referring to him as an it suggests that I, too, fit into the category of a thing.
PICARD: I see your point. My apologies.
DATA: Gladly accepted, sir. As for Lore's abilities, his use of syntax and grammar suggests he was given human memories similar to my own.
PICARD: And you have about equal physical strength and mental abilities?
DATA: I believe so, sir.
PICARD: Which requires I now ask you a very serious question. Since the two of you are closely related to each other.
DATA: The answer, sir, is that my loyalty is to you and Starfleet. Completely.
PICARD: Thank you, Commander. I was certain of that.

[Bridge]
TASHA: But how did Data escape that thing? Or Lore?
RIKER: Lore had been disassembled. He explained it as jealousy from the colonists. And Data wasn't yet alive at that time.
PICARD: Which explains why Data could be left outside in no danger from that creature. Whatever happened to the colonists, he would be found by the first Starfleet crew that responded to the signal he transmitted.
TASHA: By which Doctor Soong left proof behind that his experiment did work.
RIKER: Captain, how believable do you find that crystal thing?
PICARD: With so little of even our galaxy explored, I find it at least possible.
TASHA: Data, are you expecting Lore to come up here? He left your quarters some time ago.
DATA: To go?
TASHA: My turbo-sensors say he went to deck four. Worf?
WORF: Where he examined some micro-miniature work tools, and some fine grind quadratanium ?
DATA: Which is used in our construction. That particular compound is no more suspicious, sir, than a human looking for an antiseptic or an ointment. Nevertheless, I should check it out.
CRUSHER: You're watching everything he does, Data? Is that the act of a brother?
PICARD: It's the act of a Starfleet officer obeying his Captain, Doctor.
TASHA: Captain? Speaking strictly as Security Chief, how much can you trust Data now?
PICARD: I trust him completely. But everyone should also realize that that was a necessary and legitimate security question.
TASHA: Thank you, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: This is strange, sir. I show Commander Data transmitting on a subspace channel.
RIKER: I know Data's been doing considerable research on Doctor Soong's background. Let's be sure. Wesley, would you look in on Commander Data? Diskreetly?
WESLEY: Yes sir!

[Data's Quarters]
CRUSHER: I'll look. But I shouldn't have let you talk me into this.
WESLEY: Mom, it's Data. He's been hurt. It's Data, Mom. I heard you know how to turn them on.
CRUSHER: This is very serious.
WESLEY: So just tell me to shut up, Wesley, and I will.
CRUSHER: You're being very unfair, Wes.
WESLEY: Data, the Crystal Thing is outside somewhere close to the ship, and Lore is loose on the inside.
CRUSHER: How badly are you hurt, Data?
DATA: I will function sufficiently to stop Lore, Doctor

[Corridor]
RIKER: Where're you fellows off to?
WESLEY: Our ski instructor has us scheduled for the Denubian Alps, sir.
RIKER: Save us some deep powder.
WESLEY: No problem, sir. The holodecks have all you'll ever need.

[Transporter Room]
RIKER: The away team's ready, sir.
PICARD: Angel One's strategic importance in this quadrant may become vital. Starfleet's hope is that one day this world may become part of the Federation.
RIKER: We'll do our best to make a good impression, sir.
PICARD: Energize.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. Our away team has beamed down to an unusual matriarchal society where the female is as aggressively dominant as the male gender was on Earth hundreds of years ago. Here, the female is the hunter, the soldier, larger and stronger than the male. An arrangement considered most sensible and natural.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: I want all departments prepared for a warp six trip into the Neutral Zone as soon as the away team completes its mission.
WORF: Trouble, Captain?
PICARD: Insurance. Romulan battle cruisers have been detected near one of our border posts.

[Corridor]
PICARD: They've requested assistance as soon as Argh!
PICARD: Report, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: We finished our ski lesson, sir, and it kind of just happened.
PICARD: On the Enterprise, Mister Crusher, nothing just happens. What is that smell?
WORF: Hmm, yes. Slightly reminiscent of night blooming throgni, Captain. From home. Quite stimulating, wouldn't you say?
PICARD: No.
WESLEY: I don't smell anything. I'm a little congested. The snow.
PICARD: Don't let this just happen again, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Sickbay to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Picard here.
CRUSHER: Wesley and one of his friends have contracted some form of respiratory ailment.
PICARD: A respiratory aliment? Is it contained?
CRUSHER: I hope so. I've isolated the twelve students who were on the Quazulu Eight field trip.

[Bridge]
PICARD: How contagious is it?

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Still running tests. The key is to figure out how the virus is transmitted. So far I've been able to rule out

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Person to person contact.
PICARD: Well, keep with it, Doctor. Starfleet has very important business for us as soon as the away team returns. I don't fancy the idea of my crew being infected.

[Bridge]
WORF: Bridge to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Lieutenant.
WORF: The away team requests that we scan the planet surface for traces of platinum.
PICARD: Have Mister La Forge break fixed orbit and initiate a search pattern.
WORF: Aye, Captain. Geordi.
LAFORGE: Search pattern initiated now.

[Guest quarters]
TROI: This was delivered for you.
RIKER: Good. It's for my meeting with Beata.
TROI: You're not going to wear that.
RIKER: Of course. Part of this mission is diplomatic. I have requested an audience with a head of state, and I will honor her by wearing indigenous apparel.
TASHA: I don't believe this. You're going to put that thing on and parade around like one of them?
RIKER: Why, what is this attitude? On Kabatris I had to wear furs to meet the leadership council. And on Armus Nine I wore feathers. This objection doesn't have anything to do with the fact that Beata is a woman, and an attractive one, does it?

[Ready Room]
PICARD: This is quite unnecessary, Doctor. I'm fine.
CRUSHER: You're infected with the virus. Captain. In my opinion, you are no longer physically able to effectively command this vessel.
PICARD: That is ridiculous, Doctor. I have an away team down there, in less than friendly territory, and in addition I have an appointment with several Romulan battlecruisers.
CRUSHER: You have an appointment in your cabin, Captain. With your bed.
PICARD: Is that an order, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Yes.

[Bridge]
WORF: I think I may sneeze.
LAFORGE: A Klingon sneeze?
WORF: Only kind I know.
PICARD: Lieutenant La Forge, you have command until further notice. Please, make the proper ship's log entries.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
WORF: Scanners indicate a platinum trace. Should I notify the away team?
LAFORGE: Make it so.

[Guest quarters]
TROI: Tasha.
RIKER: What do you think?
TASHA: Well, I got to say, it's kind of sexy.
RIKER: Thank you, Lieutenant. Actually it feels quite comfortable.

[Guest quarters]
TASHA: This is Yar.

[Beata's quarters]
RIKER: In the interests of diplomatic relations, I'll remain here with Mistress Beata while you conduct our search.

[Guest quarters]
TASHA: Commander?
RIKER: You have your instructions.

[Guest quarters]
TASHA: Set phasers to stun.
TROI: I wish they weren't necessary.
DATA: A justified precaution, Counselor. Mistress Beata observed that Mister Ramsey and his men are dangerous.
TASHA: Lieutenant Yar to Enterprise.
LAFORGE: Go ahead, Tasha.
TASHA: Three to beam to the location of that platinum trace, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Coordinates set.
TASHA: Energize.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Picard to Bridge.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: La Forge here.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Status report.
LAFORGE: Eighty-two more reported cases of the virus, sir. Doctor Crusher's converted the holodeck into an isolation ward.
PICARD: And the away team?

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Well, no recent contact, sir, but I have informed them of the medical situation up here and the growing Romulan threat to our Neutral Zone outpost.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Keep me advised. You have the Bridge until Commander Riker returns.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: Bridge to Sickbay how are you Doing, Doctor?
CRUSHER: We have more sick than we do beds. So far I've been forced to confine over three hundred to their private quarters.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We're going to be seriously undermanned if we're forced to engage the Romulans in battle.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: The Romulans are your problem, Lieutenant. Trying to find an inoculants is mine. This virus mutates every twenty minutes. But so far we haven't had any fatalities, yet.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: If this continues, there'll be no one left to run the ship.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: If this continues, Lieutenant La Forge, no one will be healthy enough to care.

[Bridge]
TASHA: Yar to Enterprise.
LAFORGE: Enterprise here. Go ahead.

[Hideout]
TASHA: Prepare to beam three to our previous location, Geordi. After re-grouping with Commander Riker, we'll return to the ship.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I suggest you make that on the double, Tasha. We have a real medical emergency brewing up here.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Come.
CRUSHER: It looks horrible, tastes worse, and it's absolutely guaranteed to make you feel better.
CRUSHER: I knew you'd like it. Are you wearing cologne? Like something I smelled earlier. Something Klingon.
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf and I detected the same scent when we bumped into your son at the Holodeck.
CRUSHER: It's that smell. That's how the virus travels. An airborne particle whose sweet scent inspires deep inhalation. And once inside the body, it becomes that damned virus. I have work to do.
PICARD: You are excused, Doctor.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: He's right here, but he's in bad shape.
RIKER: Notify the transporter room I have fourteen to beam up.
CRUSHER: I can't allow it.

[Holding area]
CRUSHER: This virus is totally out of control here. Until I know exactly what I'm dealing with, I can't let anyone new be exposed.
RIKER: Doctor, these people are facing their deaths down here.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: They might be facing the same thing up here. Until I have a better idea of what I'm dealing with, no one can beam up. I'm sorry, Will, but you must wait.

[Holding area]
RIKER: Understood. Doctor, would this virus have any effect on Mister Data?
CRUSHER: Not likely.
RIKER: You're going back there alone. I want you to get the Enterprise into the Neutral Zone before it's too late.
DATA: This is Data, standing by to beam up.
TROI: What of them?
RIKER: I don't know, Deanna.

[Bridge]
DATA: To be precise, Commander, you ordered me to reach the Neutral Zone before it is too late.

[Guest quarters]
DATA: After relieving Lieutenant La Forge, I computed the length of time the border outpost

[Bridge]
DATA: And the USS Berlin can safely withstand a Romulan attack, and deducted our time to destination at maximum warp speed. That leaves Doctor Crusher forty eight minutes to develop an inoculants to the virus.

[Guest quarters]
TASHA: Which means there's still time for us to do something.
RIKER: Forty-eight minutes.

[Bridge]
DATA: Forty seven, sir.

[Guest quarters]
RIKER: Perhaps, Data, perhaps. Thank you

[Bridge]
RIKER: For following my orders so precisely, Data.

[Guest Quarters]
RIKER: On second thought, Trent, we would be honored to witness your moral imperative in action.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Sickbay to Bridge.
DATA: Go ahead, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Bingo, Data.
DATA: Bingo? I fail to see the relevance, Doctor. Is that not a reference to an ancient Earth game?

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: It's also a reference to success, Data. I've got the inoculants.

[Bridge]
DATA: Excellent, Doctor. We still have seventeen minutes left. I will inform the away team immediately. Enterprise to Riker.

[Great hall]
DATA: We are ready to have you beamed up, Commander.
RIKER: Data, Ramsey and the prisoners are with us in the Great Hall. I want you to lock the transporter. Prepare to evacuate the entire group.

[Bridge]
RIKER: But for now, stand by.
DATA: Understood, Commander.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Welcome home.
TROI: It's good to be back.
RIKER: Are they recovering?
CRUSHER: Slowly, but yes.
RIKER: And the Captain?
PICARD: The Captain is fine, thank you. Mister Data has been briefing me on the away team's comportment, Number One.
TROI: We improvised, sir.
PICARD: I look forward to your reports.
RIKER: Don't we have a call to pay on the Romulans, Captain?
PICARD: Indeed we do. Mister Data, set course for the Neutral Zone. Warp six.
DATA: Co-ordinates set. Warp six on your mark, sir.
PICARD: Engage.
DATA: Sir?
RIKER: Engage.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Coming into position.
RIKER: Stand by to dock.
DATA: Ready to dock, sir.
RIKER: Engage mooring beams and lock off.
LAFORGE: Aye sir. And docking complete.
PICARD: Thank you, Number One. Well done. And well done all.

[Corridor]
RIKER: The Bynars seem perfect for this. Even though this is the first time I've ever come in contact with them.
PICARD: As I understand it, over time they have become so interconnected with the master computer on their planet that their language, their thought patterns have become as close to binary as it's possible for organic beings.
RIKER: It'll be interesting to see how they improve a computer as advanced as ours.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Bridge. Well, I have a little work to finish up, then I'm going to my cabin. I'm going to put my feet up, I'm going to turn on my personal relaxation light and I'm going to lose myself in the pages of some old novel. What about you, Number One? You've earned a rest.
RIKER: I've never been very good at organizing my time off. Something'll turn up. It always does.

[Observation Lounge]
LAFORGE: Well, what do you think?
RIKER: Tell me what it's supposed to be, then I'll give you my opinion.
DATA: It is an attempt at pure creativity.
LAFORGE: What we're investigating is, can Data be creative?
DATA: And this is my attempt, with guidance from Geordi.
LAFORGE: I suggested the zylo eggs.
RIKER: Is that what those are?
RIKER: Keep notes. This project might turn out to be of interest to scholars in the future.
LAFORGE: Really?
RIKER: Well of course. Think about it. A blind man teaching an android how to paint? That's got to be worth a couple of pages in somebody's book.

[Doctor's office]
RIKER: You look like you're packing to leave forever.
CRUSHER: Oh, Commander Riker. No, I'm just gathering my notes. Professor Terence Epstein is at this starbase.
RIKER: Is that someone I should know of?
CRUSHER: He's the leading mind in cybernetics. He lectured at my medical school. You know the disaster at Micromius?

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Well, since then I've been working on an approach that combines cybernetics and regeneration. It sounds impossible, I know, but I have found an approach which will work. I mean, what an opportunity. To have a chance to talk with Doctor Epstein. Sorry, Will, I'd love to chat, but I have to go.

[Observation Lounge]
LAFORGE: Now what are you doing?
DATA: I am awaiting inspiration.
WESLEY: Commander Data?
DATA: This is Commander Data. Go ahead, please.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: I'm getting an indication of possible trouble in main Engineering, sir.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Can you be more specific?

[Bridge]
WESLEY: I'm afraid not. I'm reading a problem with the magnetic containment field which contains the antimatter. Could you come up here?

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: We'll go to Engineering since that's where the trouble is. Wes, don't disturb the Captain or Commander Riker until we check this out.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: This is the bridge.

[Engineering]
DATA: Alert starbase. Inform them we are abandoning the ship. Tell them why. Initiate automated sequence for departure. Set course and speed course and speed to put maximum distance between the Enterprise and any inhabited planets.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Shouldn't we wait for the Captain's approval?
DATA: There is no time.

[Engineering]
DATA: Based on all information presently available, the decision is correct. This is Lieutenant Commander Data speaking for the Captain. Abandon ship. This is not a drill. All personnel. This is not a drill. I say again, abandon ship. All personnel, this is not a drill.

[Bridge]
DATA: Abandon ship.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Picard. Access.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We now know who has commandeered the Enterprise. The Bynars. We can't communicate with the Bridge. Commander Riker and I will now try to regain control of our ship.

[Corridor]
PICARD: This way.
RIKER: That's toward Engineering.
PICARD: That's our first stop. Verify containment and initiate auto-destruct.
RIKER: Initiate auto-destruct?
PICARD: Our ship has been commandeered by a force of unknown size and intent. We're here alone. We must assume the worst.

[Transporter Room]
PICARD: Set coordinates for main Bridge. Port forward for me and aft for you.
RIKER: You're on pad two. I've set a ten second delay.
PICARD: Set phasers on stun. Number One, good luck.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Starbase 74, this is the Enterprise. Do you read me?

[Bridge]
PICARD: We'll go into that later. Right now I must speak to Lieutenant Commander Data.
DATA: I am here, sir.
PICARD: Data, the Bynars have stored an enormous amount of material in our computer. We need to access it. We can't.

[Starbase Command Center]
DATA: The access would be available by code or password.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Yes, I know that, Data, but what could it be?

[Starbase Command Center]
DATA: File names can be anything, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: They want us to find it. They would have kept it simple.

[Starbase Command Center]
DATA: Then a name, or a place. It could be something personal. In this case, in binary language, which is ones and zeros in groups of eight or sixteen characters.

[Bourbon Street Bar]
RIKER: What is a knockout like you doing in a computer generated gin joint like this?
RIKER: You're not Minuet.

[Bridge]
RIKER: She's gone. I tried variations of the program, others appeared, but not Minuet.
PICARD: Maybe it was all part of the Bynar's programming. But you know, Number One, some relationships just can't work.
RIKER: Yes, probably true. She'll be difficult to forget.

[Hydraulics room]
PICARD: Situation report, Number One.
RIKER: For safety reasons, we're shutting off all power to the Hydraulics room before entering to recover the body. Then we'll beam him up to Sickbay, but from the look of his wounds, it's probably hopeless.
PICARD: Keep me informed.
LAFORGE: Data ?
DATA: Go ahead, Geordi.

[Control room]
DATA: Geordi, this is intriguing. I have seen malfunctions

[Hydraulics room]
DATA: But this is almost as if the laser drill seemed to operate itself with a will

[Hydraulics room]
DATA: The laser blasts seemed to end when the yelling stopped.

[Hydraulics room]
DATA: Not possible.

[Control room]
LAFORGE: Then what are you suggesting?

[Hydraulics room]
DATA: Uncertain. Geordi, please return power to the control console in this room. I wish to reactivate the program.

[Control room]
LAFORGE: You got it.

[Hydraulics room]
DATA: I am running the base drilling program.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Be specific.

[Control room]
LAFORGE: Data's in the hydraulics room alone, and we're hearing laser blasts.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Get him out of there!

[Bridge]
PICARD: Away team, now. What is happening?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Malencon?
CRUSHER: I couldn't save him. The injuries were too severe, the damage too extensive.
RIKER: The entire Velara Three facility has been powered down, Captain.
WORF: We've just completed a remote power feed to the life support systems.
PICARD: Good. Data, I want you and Geordi to return for more careful inspection.
DATA: What are we to look for, sir?
PICARD: Evidence of tampering, negligence, sabotage, whatever. The answer's there, on the planet. Tasha, I want you to provide Counselor Troi and me with complete personnel records on our three guests. Psych profiles, training, everything. I'm looking for motive, intent, the psychological capacity to commit one murder and to attempt another.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: It seems we are becoming detectives, Number One.

[Hydraulics room]
LAFORGE: Not much left of this drill.
DATA: Geordi, I need some visual assistance.
LAFORGE: Whoa. What is it? Nothing but basic elements. Inorganic. No carbon. Sandy texture. Those flashes are almost musical. I see color variations and rhythms in complex harmonies.
DATA: Speculation. Could it be alive?
LAFORGE: How could it be alive? It's inorganic.
DATA: Whatever it is, it could be what they are covering up, and the reason someone killed Malencon.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. On my order, Data's startling discovery of a possible life form has been beamed aboard so that its true nature might be uncovered. But unlike life on Earth and elsewhere, it appears to be completely inorganic.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Captain, this is Doctor Crusher. I think you'd better come to the Medical Lab.

[Corridor]
WESLEY: What's wrong on with the translator circuit?
PICARD: Bridge, this is the Captain. Request emergency power to initiate lab quarantine seal.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Do it, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: What's the nature of the problem, Captain? We've lost visual.

[Corridor]
PICARD: We have confirmed that Data's discovery is life. But more than that, it is intelligent life.

[Bridge]
RIKER: How do you know, sir?

[Corridor]
PICARD: It's trying to communicate with us.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. The inorganic life form from Velara Three has apparently taken over our Medical Lab.

[Bridge]
WORF: It generates enough energy to interfere with the surrounding systems.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, can we see into the lab yet?
LAFORGE: Negative, Captain. Reducing the backup to the quarantine seal might help.
PICARD: Doctor?
CRUSHER: I wouldn't.
PICARD: Continue quarantine.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
TASHA: Director Mandl and the others are in the Observation Lounge as you requested.
PICARD: Counselor, I shall need you. You have the Bridge, Number One.

[Bridge]
RIKER: On my way. Data, you've got the Bridge. Inform the Captain.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: We see it too, Number One.
PICARD: Get that seal back up.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: We haven't got the power.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. The life form, which has significantly increased in size, is again attempting to communicate with us.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Their range of influence appears to be concentrated in the Medical Lab, Captain.
TASHA: All non-essential personnel have been moved to the most distant areas of the ship, sir.
PICARD: Data, any analysis of those bolts of light it emits?
DATA: That seems to be it's method of reprogramming, Captain. Each bolt of light consists of negatively and positively charged ions. A series of program instructions, as it were. It seems to have a quicker rapport with our computers than we have.
WORF: What do you expect? It is computer.
PICARD: Have we disabled the Medical Lab computer console?
RIKER: Aye, sir. As soon as Data determined the microbrain's method of operation.
LAFORGE: Captain, picking up a decrease in infra-red intensity.
WORF: Maybe the life-form has reached its energy level.
CRUSHER: Or maybe that's not the end of it. With single-celled life forms, at least organic ones, cell division is preceded by a resting state.
RIKER: The calm before the storm?
PICARD: Medical Lab on main viewer. Let's use this calm.
DATA: It does seem dormant, Captain.
PICARD: Tasha, set coordinates to beam it back where it came from.
TASHA: Coordinates set, sir.
PICARD: Energize.
LAFORGE: Transporter power being redirected, sir. We are unable to affect it.
PICARD: Life form or not, intelligent or not , the safety of this ship and everyone aboard her is my primary responsibility. Data, evacuate all the air from the Medical Lab. I want a vacuum there.
DATA: Environmental systems fail to respond to command, Captain. It appears the microbrain has successfully interfaced with our computers.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Killing lab lights now.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: You're limping.
RIKER: Had a small run-in with an aspiring sprinter.
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER: Problem, Captain?
PICARD: No, more a curiosity. For the past few hours we've been tracking faint energy readings in an attempt to locate the source. It's like following a trail of bread crumbs. The pathfinder lead here and stopped, which is what I knew would interest you.
RIKER: What's our position, Geordi?
LAFORGE: The Epsilon Mynos system, sir.
RIKER: Thank you, Captain, you're right. I wouldn't miss this for anything.
TASHA: What's so interesting about this system?
RIKER: Aldea. Tasha, I'm surprised you haven't heard the stories about Aldea, the wondrous mythical world. Like Atlantis of ancient Earth or Neinman of Xerxes Seven. Advanced culture, centuries old. Self-contained, peaceful. Incredible technical sophistication providing the daily needs for all the citizens, so that they could turn themselves over to art and culture.
TASHA: Where is it supposed to be?
RIKER: That's the myth. Somehow, as the legend goes, the Aldeans were able to cloak their planet in darkness and go unseen by marauders, and other hostile passers-by who might rob and plunder.
TASHA: What a wonderful fairy tale.
DATA: Scanners still show nothing, sir.
TROI: Scanners may show nothing, sir, but I'm sensing something very strong. Thousands of minds.
PICARD: From where?
TROI: Very close.
PICARD: All stop, and hold this position.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. All stop, and hold.
PICARD: Anything?
WORF: Captain, I'm recording a distortion in quadrant one, mark nine zero.
PICARD: On screen.
PICARD: Shields and deflectors up.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
RIKER: It's Aldea, Captain. It has to be.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 41509.1. Either by chance or intent, we've been led to the planet Aldea, which appeared out of nowhere, hidden behind a sophisticated shielding device.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: How do they cloak the planet?
DATA: The theory is simple. The shield bends light rays around the planet's contour, similar to the Romulan cloaking device. But the implementation is quite difficult.
WORF: Captain!
PICARD: Data, what do you read?
DATA: Some sort of scanning device, sir.
PICARD: Don't touch him!
LAFORGE: This beam is emanating from Aldea.
PICARD: Shields up. La Forge, contact Commander Riker. Worf, check all decks.
TASHA: Shields inoperable, sir.
DATA: All decks being probed in a methodical pattern, sir.
PICARD: All decks? Everything? The entire ship?
DATA: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: I can't reach the Commander. We're being blocked.
PICARD: Wesley, are you all right?
WESLEY: It was scary at first, but I really didn't feel anything.
WORF: Sir, similar incidents all decks, but only with the children.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Any response from Aldea, Lieutenant?
TASHA: Not yet, sir.
RIKER: Captain, Data has found something interesting. The Aldean shield gives evidence of random fluctuations, weakening its structure in isolated sections.
PICARD: You're saying there are holes in their defense system?
RIKER: In essence, yes. I find it surprising after all these eons that the Aldeans' have not perfected their technology. One would assume they would be aware of the weakness and repair it.
PICARD: Can we beam down an away team through one of those holes?
RIKER: It's a possibility. It would have to be perfectly timed, and there's no guarantee.
DATA: We may be more successful in deciphering the code they use to transport through the magnetic shield.
PICARD: Can you do that?
DATA: Eventually, sir. I am working on it now but the number of permutations is almost endless.
PICARD: Keep trying. While he's doing that, Number One, I want you and La Forge to try and find some way of getting through one of those holes, because one way or the other we have got to get an away team on the planet, locate the power source for the shield and neutralize it.
RIKER: You're certain they'll negotiate?
PICARD: Oh, they'll negotiate, or they'll call it that. They've taken what they want. Now they'll rationalize it by throwing us some sort of bone.
RIKER: And when we don't accept their offer?
PICARD: The minute they believe that we won't accept their compensation for the children, they'll break off the discussion, they'll disappear behind their shield, locking us out and the children in forever. That's why I've got to keep them talking.

[Wesley's room]
WESLEY: Mom!
CRUSHER: Wes.
WESLEY: I knew Captain Picard would get us home.
CRUSHER: Not yet, Wes.
WESLEY: Oh.
CRUSHER: Are you okay? And the others?
WESLEY: Okay, really okay. We've been assigned to our units, like families. They're treating us like gods.
CRUSHER: Don't let it go to your head.
WESLEY: I won't.

[Doctor's office]
CRUSHER: No. That doesn't fit the pattern. Give me a list of the appropriate medical literature from the twenty-second century. There's not enough time!
PICARD: Is there anything I can do?
CRUSHER: You just did, Jean-Luc. Now I have to get back to work.

[Wesley's room]
WESLEY: Custodian's room.

[Katie's room]
WESLEY: I think I know a way to get us home. I need your help. Chief Medical Officer's log, stardate 41512.9. I've begun to suspect that whatever is killing the Aldeans is related to a danger faced by Earth in the twenty first century. Can it be that Aldea's ozone layer has been weakened?

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: I've got it, Captain. The Aldeans are suffering from a form of radiation poisoning.
PICARD: Is that what made the Aldeans sterile?
CRUSHER: Yes.
PICARD: Is it reversible?
CRUSHER: With the proper treatment, yes.
DATA: Captain.
CRUSHER: Sir.
DATA: These permutations are going to take a very long time.
PICARD: How long?
DATA: Weeks.
RIKER: There is the option.
LAFORGE: We were able to further define the weakness in their shield. Now, it's not a hole as much as it is a fluctuation.
RIKER: If the timing is precise, it's possible to beam through and onto the planet.
PICARD: Why don't we just beam the children up through the hole?
RIKER: The timing would be more difficult, and the risk greater.
PICARD: All right. You and Data beam down. Locate the power source of that shield. Knock it out. I'll delay the Aldeans until you're ready.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: We're ready, Lieutenant Worf.

[Custodian room]
DATA: This is it, Commander. It is programmed to accept only authorized voice command.
RIKER: There's no way we can override.
DATA: No, but I can scramble the input so that nobody else can.

[Custodian room]
RIKER: We found the power source to the shield and we've neutralized it.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Captain, may I speak frankly?
PICARD: Always, Number One.
RIKER: As First Officer, I should be informed. I should know everything that you know.
PICARD: That's right, you should.
RIKER: Then what's this about? Remmick is going to turn this ship upside down.
PICARD: That's his job.
RIKER: And my job is to see that this ship runs smoothly.
PICARD: Which you do very well.
RIKER: Sir, am I under investigation?
PICARD: I don't know.
RIKER: And if you did?
PICARD: I couldn't tell you.
RIKER: I don't understand, sir. This is extremely frustrating.
PICARD: No less so for me. But I promised cooperation, and that's what we shall give.
RIKER: Sir.

[Holodeck]
WORF: Ensign, what are you doing on the holodeck? I thought you were still on Relva Seven.
WESLEY: I'm finished testing for the day.
WORF: I've disturbed you. I'll leave.
WESLEY: Wait. I thought I wanted to be alone, but I guess I don't.
WORF: How is the testing?
WESLEY: Okay. So far. It's not the ones that I've studied for that I'm worried about. It's the psych test. Facing my deepest fear and living through it. I'm trying to figure out what images to bring up.
WORF: Why?
WESLEY: I guess I want to scare myself. What do you think? Bulgallian rats? Lightning storms?
WORF: Do those things frighten you?
WESLEY: Sort of, I guess.
WORF: The psych test is no more or less important than the rest of the process.
WESLEY: That's what they said, but I can't stop thinking about it.
WORF: Thinking about what you can't control only wastes your energy and creates its own enemy.
WESLEY: How can they know what my deepest fear is when I don't?
WORF: By analyzing your psychological profile. They were very accurate about everyone I tested with. Including myself.
WESLEY: You? I thought there was nothing that could frighten a Klingon warrior.
WORF: Only fools have no fear.
WESLEY: I'm sorry, Lieutenant. I'm asking too many personal questions.
WORF: It is very difficult for me to depend on anyone for anything. But especially for my life.
WESLEY: But on the Enterprise you do that every day. Everyone depends on everyone else to protect them.
WORF: Yes.
WESLEY: So you overcame it?
WORF: No. It is still my enemy.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Captain, he's unbalanced the dilithium reaction.

[Bridge]
RIKER: He'll need another thirty seconds before he can restart.
DATA: Irrelevant, sir. Even if he restarts his engine now, he will not have enough thrust to escape impact.
PICARD: Mister Kurland, you are not going to die out there. You are going to do exactly what I tell you. Now, take the nose of the shuttlecraft and aim it directly at Relva Seven.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Now, monitor your speed exactly. When it hits point zero two zero, I want you to restart the engine

[Room 101]
WESLEY: I'm here. I'm ready. Maybe they forgot. Breathe. Got to remember to breathe.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: Yes, Number One?
RIKER: Mister Remmick has left the ship.
PICARD: Yes. He found nothing wrong on the Enterprise. And you can inform the crew that Admiral Quinn is most impressed.
RIKER: Thank you. They'll be pleased that. Can you explain now what he was after?
PICARD: They were after me, Number One. They want me to take over as Commandant, Starfleet Academy.
RIKER: Congratulations! What a wonderful choice, sir. You'll be able to shape the minds of the future leaders of Starfleet. You haven't decided what you're going to do.
PICARD: Yes, I have, Number One. I've decided I'm going for a walk.

[Observation Lounge]
PICARD: Mister Crusher? Why aren't you in your dress uniform for Admiral Quinn's farewell dinner?
WESLEY: I didn't think that would be appropriate.
PICARD: Why not?
WESLEY: I failed, Captain. I didn't get into the Academy. I failed you and I failed the Enterprise.
PICARD: Ridiculous. Did you do your best?
WESLEY: Yes.
PICARD: When you test next year, and you will test next year, do you think your performance will improve?
WESLEY: Yes.
PICARD: Good. The only person you're truly competing against, Wesley, is yourself.
WESLEY: Then you're not disappointed?
PICARD: Wesley, you have to measure your successes and your failures within, not by anything I or anyone else might think. But, if it helps you to know this, I failed the first time. And you may not tell anyone!
WESLEY: You? You failed?
PICARD: Yes. But not the second time. Now, you'll do me the courtesy of joining us at dinner. I have to disappoint an old friend.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Set course to Algeron Four, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Course plotted and laid in, sir.
PICARD: Then shall we continue with our mission?
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Excellent. Mister Crusher, engage.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain. Communication from Starfleet. They have reported a disturbance in the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: Of what nature?
WORF: A battle. Quadrant nine, coordinates zero seven zero, mark three. There's no information who is involved. They are asking if we can investigate.
PICARD: Answer affirmative. Lieutenant La Forge, lay in the course.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
DATA: I have no reports of any Federation ships in that area, sir.
RIKER: Ferengi?
PICARD: It's a little out of their territory.
RIKER: Shall we separate the saucer?
PICARD: Let's get a little more information first.
LAFORGE: Course set, Captain.
PICARD: Speed, warp seven.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir, warp seven.
PICARD: Engage.
LAFORGE: We are now approaching the Neutral Zone.
TASHA: Sir, sensors indicate several recent photon explosions and heavy phaser activity.
DATA: Sir, I have analyzed the residue from the explosions. This is of no known Ferengi design. It is possibly Romulan.
PICARD: Now there's a name we haven't heard for a while.
RIKER: I could go a lot longer without hearing it.
PICARD: If the Romulans have returned to this sector we should know about that. Mister Worf, any further activity?
WORF: Negative, sir.
PICARD: Slow to half impulse.
LAFORGE: Going to one half impulse. Now entering quadrant nine zero seven, mark three.
PICARD: Shields and deflectors up. Go to Yellow Alert.
DATA: I have located a vessel, sir. It is drifting.
PICARD: Put it on main viewer.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Magnify.
DATA: The life support systems on the ship are failing, sir. Propulsion, navigation, and all communication, inoperative.
PICARD: Any trace of the other vessel?
DATA: No, sir.
RIKER: If it is a Romulan vessel, it could be cloaked.
PICARD: Tell Starfleet we're entering the Neutral Zone.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, take us in a little closer.
LAFORGE: Aye, aye, sir.
PICARD: Stay sharp everyone.
RIKER: It's Talarian.
PICARD: Life signs?
WORF: Nothing yet, sir.
DATA: I have identified the vessel, Captain. It is the Batris, a general cargo vessel.
RIKER: A long way from home.
PICARD: Keep alert.
WORF: Captain, possible life signs.
PICARD: What do you mean, possible?
WORF: The readings emanate from a location near what is left of main Engineering. There is a great deal of magnetic and radioactive clutter making a positive determination difficult.
RIKER: I'll prepare an away team.
PICARD: Lieutenant Yar, you stay at your post. If this is the result of a Romulan attack, they may still be in the area.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Data, Geordi, let's go.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, are we close enough to use the Visual Acuity transmitter?
LAFORGE: We can certainly try it, sir.
PICARD: Please do. And Number One? Everything about this seems wrong.
RIKER: Agreed. It smells like a trap. Let's go.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 41503.7. We have entered the Neutral Zone, where a Talarian freighter has been severely damaged in a battle. I have sent an away team to investigate.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: What exactly does this device do?
LAFORGE: Data and I have been working on a way to transmit what my visor sees. If it works, the Bridge'll be able to monitor us.
DATA: It has restrictions. The information from Geordi's visor is so complex it is difficult to encode. Therefore the signal breaks down easily.
RIKER: That means it doesn't have much range.
LAFORGE: Exactly. So far, the effective range is only few kilometers, but we're working on it. La Forge to Bridge.
WORF: This is the Bridge.
LAFORGE: Worf, I've switched on the Visual Acuity Transmitter.
WORF: We are receiving. The signal is strong.
LAFORGE: Okay, Worf. I am switching off for transport.
RIKER: Set phasers on stun. Let's be ready for anything. Energize.

[Batris Corridor]
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge.
PICARD: This is the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm switching on the transmitter.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ready to receive. Put this on main viewer.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Extraordinary. Now I'm beginning to understand him.
PICARD: Geordi. What was that? Over to the left.
LAFORGE: What?
PICARD: Yes, that. No, no, back. Yes, that. Right there. What is that?

[Batris Corridor]
LAFORGE: That's Commander Riker.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ah, to me it's just an undefined form, standing in a visual frenzy. Can you filter out the extraneous information?
LAFORGE: No, I get it all simultaneously.
PICARD: But it's just a jumble.

[Batris Corridor]
PICARD: How can you make head or tail of it?
LAFORGE: I select what I want and then disregard the rest.
PICARD: But how is that possible?
LAFORGE: Well, how, in a noisy room, can you select one specific voice or sound?
PICARD: Of course, something you learn.
LAFORGE: Exactly.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: It's something I have learned. Does that make it more clear?
PICARD: Look over at Data. There's an aura around Data.
LAFORGE: Well, of course. He's an android.
PICARD: You say that as if you think that's what we all see.
LAFORGE: Don't you?

[Batris Corridor]
RIKER: Sir, I hate to break this up, but

[Bridge]
PICARD: Oh, yes, of course, Number One. Proceed.

[Batris Corridor]
RIKER: Let's go.
DATA: I am detecting high levels of deuterium gas, probably from the leakage in the drive system.
RIKER: Toxic?
DATA: Not as yet, sir. The life signs are emanating from the far side of Engineering.
RIKER: What's the safest way around?
DATA: All routes are equally dangerous, sir.
LAFORGE: Well, what's the least dangerous route, Data?
DATA: There is no significant difference.
RIKER: Steady on.
LAFORGE: Commander Riker! Commander.
RIKER: Yes, Geordi.
LAFORGE: There's a fissure developing in the bulkhead. The skin of the ship is losing its integrity.
RIKER: Where is it? I can't see it.
LAFORGE: Right there.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Geordi, step closer. It looks to me like a spectrograph indicating metal fatigue.

[Batris Corridor]
PICARD: Is that how you interpret it?
LAFORGE: Very good, Captain. Exactly right.
RIKER: How long before this hull ruptures?
LAFORGE: It's impossible to be exact. I'd say five minutes. Probably less.
RIKER: Let's go.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Geordi, we've lost transmission.

[Batris Engineering]
LAFORGE: Signal overload. I'm surprised it lasted this long.
RIKER: We've reached the core, Captain.
DATA: The life signs are very strong now, sir. They are coming from over there.
RIKER: Is there any other way around?
DATA: Negative. This is the only way. The safest way to proceed is for me to cross alone. The heat and toxic gasses have less effect on me.
RIKER: Agreed. Captain, Data's gone ahead.

[Bridge]
RIKER: The life signs seem to be coming from the far side of Engineering.

[Batris Engineering]
DATA: I've found them, sir. The door to their compartment is jammed.
DATA: The control mechanism's not operative, sir.
RIKER: This is Commander Riker of the USS Enterprise. Do you hear me?
DATA: I advise against the use of phasers, sir. The gas buildup is too great.
LAFORGE: He's right, sir. A phaser discharge now could blow us all out of here.
DATA: Shall I, sir?
PICARD: Number One, what's going on?
RIKER: We're about to force the door.
PICARD: What is it? What do you see?
RIKER: Klingons.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Klingons?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Tasha, go to transporter room three. I want you there when the away team returns.
TASHA: Aye, sir.

[Batris Corridor]
LAFORGE: Commander, we are out of time. This ship is blowing.
RIKER: Transporter room, have you got a lock on us?

[Transporter room]
TASHA: Too much interference. You have to get farther away from the Engineering section.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, the Engineering section is critical. Destruction of the Batris is imminent.
PICARD: They're out of options. Do it!

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Now!
RIKER: Bridge, this is Commander Riker.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We are taking the survivors to Sickbay.
PICARD: I'll be in Sickbay.
WORF: Captain. Request permission to join you.
PICARD: Granted.

[Bridge]
PICARD: And as I watched Worf, it was like looking at a man that I had never known.
DATA: Captain, long range sensors indicate another vessel approaching this area.
PICARD: Can you identify it?
DATA: No, sir, not yet.
PICARD: Keep a close watch on it. So close to the Neutral Zone it can't be random.

[Bridge]
TASHA: There's been an escape. At least one of my security is dead.

[Corridor]
TASHA: So is Konmel. Korris is loose and armed.
PICARD: Keep me informed, Lieutenant.
TASHA: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: This is a futile effort.

[Engineering]
TASHA: Captain, he has a phaser aimed directly at the dilithium crystal chamber.

[Bridge]
TASHA: At that range, one blast and
PICARD: I understand, Lieutenant.
WORF: Captain, permission to leave the Bridge.
PICARD: We'll both go.

[Planet Surface]
RIKER: Spooky. Riker.

[Bridge]
PICARD: This is the Bridge.
RIKER: We'll start a pattern search from this point.
PICARD: Keep this channel open.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Aye, sir.
DATA: Commander, our communications are being monitored.
RIKER: By whom?
DATA: Since there is no intelligent life, the question is by what?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Captain?
PICARD: Yes, we heard that, Number One. We'll try and track it down from here.

[Ruins]
TASHA: Tritanium. It's been melted.
RIKER: What could do that?
TASHA: I don't know. Whatever it was, it's beyond our technology.
DATA: Over here.
TASHA: Wow.
RIKER: We've never even seen anything like this.
TASHA: It's undamaged.
RIKER: Maybe a demonstration model for some potential buyer.
TASHA: Maybe. Let's spread out a little.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, get your team back up here.

[Jungle]
RIKER: Prepare to beam up.
TASHA: Commander!

[Bridge]
PICARD: What's happened, Number One? Report. Report! Report!

[Jungle]
TASHA: He can't answer you, Captain.
DATA: Commander Riker just has been encased in some kind of energy field.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Is he alive?

[Jungle]
DATA: Unknown.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. Some kind of weapon, which for a time took the form of Captain Paul Rice, has enveloped Commander Riker.

[Jungle]
DATA: Typically, the purpose of such an enclosure is for storage.
PICARD: Which would suggest what?
TASHA: That sooner or later someone or something will be along to collect him.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Stand by. I'm coming down.
TROI: You, sir?
PICARD: Yes. Doctor Crusher, this is the Captain. Meet me in Transporter room three. Mister La Forge, you have command of the Bridge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: And whatever happens down there, your prime responsibility is to the ship.
LAFORGE: Understood, sir.
TROI: Captain, I take great exception to your decision to beam down.
PICARD: Noted.

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER: Is it just Riker?
PICARD: Yes. Apparently he's confined in some sort of force field. Energize.

[Jungle]
PICARD: Any changes?
TASHA: Data's figured out what it is.
CRUSHER: Are you getting any life signs?
DATA: He is alive. What appeared in the form of Captain Rice is an intelligence gathering device used during the Ersalrope Wars.
TASHA: Probably developed here.
DATA: It projects an image of someone the subject will trust, gets as much information as possible.
TASHA: If it's found out, it encases the subject to await a more detailed interrogation later.
CRUSHER: Clever.
PICARD: Can you remove it?
DATA: Possibly, but I will need to know the exact frequency and I cannot determine the risk to Commander Riker.
PICARD: We have little choice. Whatever has him is interrupting the transporter beam. Remove it.
DATA: This will take some time, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: I am picking up energy readings.
LAFORGE: Captain, Lieutenant La Forge here. Sensors indicate energy readings in your area.

[Jungle]
PICARD: Doctor, over here!

[Cavern]
PICARD: Doctor.

[Planet Surface]
TASHA: This one is different. It's anticipating. Data, I need you. Set your phaser on kill. I'll lead left, you get it.
TASHA: Captain? Doctor Crusher?
DATA: Captain Picard? I have a malfunction.
TASHA: Enterprise, this is Lieutenant Yar. Mine's out too.
DATA: The close pass by the weapons must have disrupted our communicators.
TASHA: Keep on working. I'll look for the Captain and Doctor Crusher.

[Cavern]
CRUSHER: Ow! My arm.
PICARD: How bad is it?
CRUSHER: Oh, it's bad.
PICARD: Come on. Alright, don't worry, we'll get you out of here. Enterprise, this is the Captain. Two to beam up. Enterprise? Enterprise, come in. Data? Lieutenant Yar?
CRUSHER: What's wrong? Why aren't they working?
PICARD: I don't know. But don't worry. As soon as they realize our communicators are not working, the sensors will find us and Geordi will beam us up. Now, just you hold on. I'm sorry about this.
PICARD: Hold on, it won't be long.
CRUSHER: I must keep conscious.

[Planet Surface]
TASHA: Data, I can't find them.
DATA: Step back, please. I believe I have found it.
RIKER: Data.
DATA: All vital signs returning to normal.
TASHA: Good. Now Geordi can get us out of here. Come on. The Captain and Doctor Crusher can't be far away.

[Jungle]
TASHA: Maybe you should wait here while Data and I search for the Captain and Doctor Crusher.
RIKER: No, I'm a little groggy, but I'll be all right.
DATA: I am getting energy readings. Look out!
TASHA: We'll do it just like before.
TASHA: It's got a deflector shield.
DATA: The product continues to upgrade and improve.
TASHA: We'll concentrate our fire and try to collapse its shield. Commander, we'll need you too.
TASHA: Now! You're right, they keep getting better.
DATA: The weapons are appearing at intervals of precisely twelve minutes.
TASHA: Well this one took everything we had. I don't know how we'll handle the next one.
RIKER: We're not going to wait around. Let's find the rest of our team.

[Cavern]
PICARD: We seem to be in some kind of underground structure, but I don't see any. Hey, no, you don't. No time to sleep.
CRUSHER: I'm tired.
PICARD: Come on, stay with me. Come on now, stay awake. That's an order.
CRUSHER: I must have lost a lot of blood.
PICARD: I've stopped the bleeding.
CRUSHER: No, there's another wound. My leg.
PICARD: Not to worry, Everything is going to be fine. Now, this is going to hurt a bit.
CRUSHER: I've heard that before.
PICARD: Hey, hey, Doctor. Stay awake. Come on. There's a lot of blood. What do I do next? Doctor.
CRUSHER: The wound needs a clotting agent.
PICARD: I couldn't find your medical kit.
CRUSHER: Those roots. What are they?
PICARD: Roots? What, these?
CRUSHER: Break off a piece and taste it. Don't swallow it.
PICARD: Very bitter.
CRUSHER: Apply some to your hand. Is there a color change?
PICARD: It's turning yellowish.
CRUSHER: Good. Now, spread as much of it as you can onto the wound.
PICARD: Hey, hey, Doctor. Now, stay awake. You've got to help me. I need your help. All right, now listen. Your patient has lost a great deal of blood from multiple lacerations.
CRUSHER: The patient's going into shock.
PICARD: So what do I do?
CRUSHER: Elevate the legs and try to keep her warm.
PICARD: Good. All right. Stay with me, Doctor. Keep talking.
CRUSHER: You didn't happen to bring a blanket with you, did you?
PICARD: No. I'm going to look for a way out. Now, you keep up your end. Stay awake.

[Planet surface]
DATA: They are down there, sir.
RIKER: Let's clear some of that away.
TASHA: If Data's calculations are correct, the next one should show itself in two minutes.
RIKER: Captain!

[Cavern]
RIKER: Can you hear me?
PICARD: Yes, we're here!
RIKER: Are you all right?
PICARD: Doctor Crusher is seriously hurt. We can't contact the Enterprise. The communicators are out.
RIKER: Yes, our communicators are out too.
PICARD: Those devices are part of a system located down here. Another one is about to be released. Watch yourselves.
TASHA: We know, Captain.
RIKER: It's too far down there. There's nothing to hold on to. No way to climb down.

[Planet surface]
TASHA: I'm surprised either of them survived.
DATA: I can do it, Commander.
RIKER: How?
DATA: Jump.
RIKER: Data, it's over ten meters.
DATA: Eleven point seven five, sir.
TASHA: Data, you may be sturdy, but you're not indestructible.
DATA: I believe I can safely traverse the distance.
RIKER: Captain, Data's going down to join you down there. Be my guest.

[Cavern]
PICARD: Data.
DATA: At your service, Captain.

[Planet Surface]
TASHA: We'd better find a defensive position. If Data's right
RIKER: He usually is.
TASHA: We're going to have company any minute now, and this time I don't know how we're going to stop it. Ship's log, supplemental. Lieutenant La Forge in command of the star drive section. After separating from the saucer, we have returned to Minos to rescue the away team. Unfortunately, I have only one option left, and it's a long shot.

[Planet Surface]
TASHA: We could split up.
RIKER: What good would that do?
TASHA: Confuse it, delay it. Something.
RIKER: It would still get us. It would just take a little longer.
TASHA: It might give one of us long enough to get out of range.
RIKER: Out of range?
TASHA: Forget I said it. These devices wiped out an entire planet. I don't think it has a range.
RIKER: Then what does that leave us? Right. That's what I thought.
TASHA: On the other hand, we could look for deeper cover.
RIKER: You got any ideas?
TASHA: None.

[Planet Surface]
PICARD: Number One!
RIKER: Right here. That was close.

[Cavern]
PICARD: La Forge, everything's alright. We've neutralized it.

[Planet surface]
CRUSHER: Let's go. The life signs are weak.
RIKER: What is this?
TASHA: No idea. We'll go around, just to be on the safe side.
TASHA: Let's try the other way.
RIKER: Enterprise, this is Riker. We've got a problem.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What kind of problem, Number One?
RIKER: I'm not sure yet. There appears to be some kind of a slick blocking our path. Will keep you apprised.
PICARD: Maintain an open frequency.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Analysis, Mister Data.
DATA: Inconclusive, sir. I cannot tell you what it is, but I can tell you what it is not.
RIKER: Explain.
DATA: There is no evidence of neural or circulatory systems. No internal organs. Cellular structure unknown. It does not have any proteins which are known to us.
CRUSHER: It's narrower over here. We can get over it.
RIKER: How is it moving, Data?
DATA: I do not know, sir. It does not appear to have a skeletal framework or musculature.
RIKER: Then what's causing it to move?
DATA: It appears to be following us, sir.
RIKER: No sign of intelligence, no brain as we know it, yet evidence of thought, Mister Data?
DATA: Insufficient information, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Is it a life form, Data?
DATA: Again, insufficient information, sir.
PICARD: Theorize.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What is it, Number One? What are you seeing?

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Trouble.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. While on a mission to rescue survivors from an unexplained shuttle crash, the away team has encountered a strange creature which seems able to assume different forms, including one which resembles humanoid.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Easy, Number One. Let's find out what it is we're dealing with.
RIKER: Agreed, Captain.
PICARD: Number One, I don't believe that the location of the crash and the proximity of the creature is a coincidence.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter room, get them up, now.

[Transporter Room]
CRUSHER: I need her in Sickbay now.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go to Yellow Alert, Lieutenant Worf. I'll be in Sickbay.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: She didn't do anything. Her phaser was lowered.
DATA: She only wanted to get to Troi and Lieutenant Prieto.
RIKER: There was nothing provocative about what she did.
CRUSHER: She was killed in a brutal, senseless act.
PICARD: Lieutenant Yar's death is very painful for all of us. We will have to deal with it as best we can for now. Until the shuttle crew is safely beamed aboard this ship, our feelings will have to wait. Is that understood? Lieutenant Worf, you are now Acting Chief of Security.
WORF: I will do my best, sir.
PICARD: Doctor, what is the state of the shuttle crew?
CRUSHER: We're still receiving faint life signs, but the sensor readings are fluctuating. They may not be accurate.
DATA: Armus is capable of creating undefined forcefields. In effect, we are powerless to communicate or use the transporter unless it allows it.
PICARD: A creature against whom we seem to have no defense. Number One?
RIKER: It's down on that planet waiting for us to come back. It killed Tasha and it could have killed us, but it didn't. Deanna and Ben are alive for a reason, and it knows we're not going anywhere as long as they're still alive.
PICARD: Are you saying it's attack on Yar was not arbitrary but part of some tactic?
RIKER: The only way to find out is to go back down.
LAFORGE: Commander, I may be able to see something in the creature which might be helpful.
PICARD: Agreed. Prepare your away team, Number One.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf?
WORF: I will remain on the ship. The object here is not to engage the creature in battle. The goal is the safe return of Counselor Troi and Lieutenant Prieto. I can best accomplish this at the Tactical Station.
PICARD: Very good. Number One?

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Enterprise.
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER: We're approaching the shuttlecraft. The creature is covering it.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, look at this. The force of the energy field around the shuttlecraft decreased for a few moments when the creature was draped over it.
PICARD: But not low enough to beam them out.
WORF: Almost.
WESLEY: It's approaching the away team now, and the energy field over the shuttlecraft is back to full intensity.
PICARD: Chart it. I want to see if there's a pattern.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Planet surface]
TROI: I can hear you.
CRUSHER: Are you all right?

[Shuttlecraft]
TROI: Yes.

[Planet surface]
CRUSHER: We've encountered some difficulty.

[Shuttlecraft]
TROI: I know.

[Bridge]
DATA: Armus has enveloped Commander Riker.
PICARD: I'm beaming you up.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, perhaps you should look at this. We have the chart of the energy field surrounding the shuttle.
PICARD: There are a great deal of fluctuations.
WORF: Yes, but there is a pattern. Here is when it killed Lieutenant Yar, and here is when it absorbed Commander Riker.
PICARD: And here, here, where the energy is lowest?
WORF: Both times it had enveloped the shuttle.
PICARD: It has something to do with Counselor Troi. Somehow when it's dealing with her, the energy field is affected. I want to talk to her. I'm going to beam down. Lieutenant Worf, you have the conn.

[Shuttlecraft]
PICARD: Troi, are you all right?
TROI: Yes, but Ben is not.
PICARD: He's alive.
TROI: Were you able to help Tasha?
PICARD: No. Troi. Troi, we must talk. I believe it's possible to outmaneuver this creature, and beam you and Ben back up to the ship. We've been monitoring the energy field that surrounds the shuttle. When the creature is here, the field weakens. Do you know why?
TROI: The creature is filled with rage. Undirected, unfocused rage. When he confronts it, his guard goes down because he's feeling it instead of suppressing it. Acknowledging his needs makes him vulnerable.
PICARD: What caused the rage?
TROI: He was left here. Abandoned.

[Bridge]
WORF: The forcefield will have to drop below two point seven before we can beam them up.

[Bridge]
WORF: Set the computer. When the energy level reaches two point six point two zero five, automatically beam up Troi and Prieto. We'll do a parallel transport on the Captain.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.

[Planet surface]
PICARD: That's your real fear. Never to die. Never again to be united with those who left you here.

[Bridge]
WORF: Energy field is two point six. Computer beginning transport.

[Planet surface]
PICARD: I'm not taking you anywhere.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 41602.1. The shuttlecraft has been destroyed to prevent any possibility of Armus leaving the planet. Vagra Two will be declared off limits. But the damage has been done. One of the saddest duties I've ever had to perform is now ahead of me.

[Holodeck - meadow]
PICARD: We are here together to honor our friend and comrade, Lieutenant Natasha Yar. Coming to terms with the loss of a colleague is perhaps the most difficult tasks we must face in the work we have chosen to pursue. We will all find time to grieve for her in the days that are ahead, but for now she has asked that we celebrate her life with this.
TASHA: Hello, my friends. You are here now watching this image of me because I have died. It probably happened while I was on duty, and quickly, which is what I expected. Never forget I died doing exactly what I chose to do. What I want you to know is how much I loved my life, and those of you who shared it with me. You are my family. You all know where I came from and what my life was like before. But Starfleet took that frightened, angry young girl and tempered her. I have been blessed with your friendship and your love. Will Riker, you are the best. You trusted me, you encouraged me, and most of all you made me laugh. Deanna, you are capable of so much love. You taught me without ever having to say a word. I realized I could be feminine without losing anything. Ah, Worf. We are so much alike, you and I. Both warriors, orphans who found ourselves this family. I hope I met death with my eyes wide open. Beverly. Your fierce devotion comes from within. It can't be diminished. From you, I have learned to strive for excellence, no matter what the personal cost. Wesley, I'm sorry I won't be able to see you grow into the exceptional man you'll be. But your kindness and innocence are ageless. Geordi, in those moments I felt the most despair, you took my hand and helped me to see things differently. You taught me to look beyond the moment. My friend Data. You see things with the wonder of a child, and that makes you more human than any of us. Captain Jean-Luc Picard. I wish I could say you've been like a father to me, but I've never had one, so I don't know what it feels like. But if there was someone in this universe I could choose to be like, someone who I would want to make proud of me, it's you. You who have the heart of an explorer and the soul of a poet. So, you'll understand when I say, death is that state in which one exists only in the memory of others. Which is why it is not an end. No goodbyes. Just good memories. Hailing frequencies closed, sir.
PICARD: Au revoir, Natasha. The gathering is concluded.
DATA: Sir, the purpose of this gathering confuses me.
PICARD: Oh? How so?
DATA: My thoughts are not for Tasha, but for myself. I keep thinking how empty it will feel without her presence. Did I miss the point?
PICARD: No, you didn't, Data. You got it.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Intense magnetic fields have a disruptive effect on electrical systems. Therefore we can expect communications interruptions, as well as potential temporary loss of other systems. As a precaution, we are now going to Yellow Alert. Stay sharp, everyone.

[Bridge]
DATA: All sections secure, sir.
PICARD: Lieutenant La Forge?
LAFORGE: Course is set, Captain.
PICARD: Half impulse.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir, one half impulse.
PICARD: On main viewer. Mask out the photosphere. Magnify. Quadrant one seven, magnification factor twelve.
RIKER: I've never seen anything like this before. The violence of these eruptions is awesome.
DATA: Captain, I'm reading an unusual number of sunspots and eruptive prominences, sir. The magnetic field is extremely irregular.
WESLEY: Captain, deflectors are being hit by a huge burst of X-rays.
WESLEY: Wow! Look. Captain, my console seems to be overloading.
WORF: The X-ray burst is disrupting systems, Captain. I'm adjusting deflectors to compensate.

[Transporter room]
TASHA: I can't maintain a positive lock.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Unusual E-M burst, sir. Readings off scale.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, the hull temperature of the freighter is passing three thousand degrees.
PICARD: What's the hold up, Number One?

[Bridge]
RIKER: But they beamed over their cargo.
PICARD: Cargo? Are those people crazy? What could possibly be so important?
WORF: Sir, the freighter is disintegrating.
PICARD: Their lives are in danger and they're beaming over cargo? Number One, I don't understand these people.
LAFORGE: Captain, the freighter's hull temperature is approaching critical.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Unbelievable.
PICARD: We're losing the freighter. Got to beam those people over now.
RIKER: Clear the cargo. Beam it to a hold.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Freighter Sanction, this is the Enterprise, Get to your transporter pad and. No, forget about that. Lock on to any life form you can find and get them over now.
TASHA: Trying, sir.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: The freighter is going down.
PICARD: Transporter Room. You're out of time.

[Transporter room]
TASHA: Reading six life forms, but I can't get a solid lock.
RIKER: We have no choice. Energize. I thought you said there were six. Where are the other two?
TASHA: The lock didn't hold.
RIKER: Re-establish.
TASHA: It's too late.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One?

[Corridor]
RIKER: I have never seen humanoids with that power.
TASHA: Neither have I. I wonder how it evolved?
RIKER: I wonder if the strong magnetic field of their sun might have something to do with it.
TASHA: Could be. I wonder how much power our guests can produce?
RIKER: Or if they need to recharge?
TASHA: That's an interesting ability. The question is, how do I defend against it?
RIKER: You think our visitors pose a threat?
TASHA: I don't know. But if they do, I'd better be ready for it.
RIKER: Precisely, Lieutenant.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Solar flares are increasing in magnitude, Captain. Shields are shaky, but they're holding.
PICARD: Maintain.
PICARD: How are our rather quarrelsome guests?
TASHA: They're waiting for you in the observation lounge, sir.
PICARD: Data, what information can you give us about the inhabitants of this system?
DATA: Not very much, sir. The only recorded contact with the Delos system was over two hundred years ago. A scout ship reported two inhabited planets, one of which was on the verge of acquiring space travel.
LAFORGE: Odd that in two centuries neither civilization advanced much further.
TROI: Sir, I find it strange that none of our visitors feels much remorse about the two freighter passengers who perished. Yet that barrel of cargo is a source of great anxiety to them.
PICARD: Yes. Let's pay a call, get some answers. Number One, Mister Data. Mister La Forge, you have the Bridge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Doctor's office]
PICARD: What have you learned?
CRUSHER: The Brekkians show no sign of infection. The Ornarans show all the symptoms of a disease but I can't find a cause.
PICARD: Perhaps it was filtered out by the transporter when they were beamed aboard?
CRUSHER: There's no record of it. Then again, the solar flare activity might have caused a malfunction in the biofilters or their monitors.
PICARD: Are they going to die?
CRUSHER: I need to check further, but my instinct says no.
PICARD: Do you think we are in danger from this plague?
CRUSHER: Again, I need more time.
PICARD: There are some missing pieces to this puzzle.
CRUSHER: What's missing is a little compassion.
PICARD: Are we losing our professional detachment, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Perhaps. But Captain, I must tell you, I'm developing a very active dislike for these Brekkians.
PICARD: Understandable.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Doctor.
CRUSHER: I may not know felicium's full effect on Ornarian physiology, but I know how to interpret physical reactions.
PICARD: Are the Ornarans recovering?
CRUSHER: T'Jon and Romas are feeling fine. In fact, too fine. Felicium's a narcotic.
PICARD: Then T'Jon, and Romas, indeed everyone on their world?
CRUSHER: Is a drug addict.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Main Bridge.
CRUSHER: When the Felicium runs out, the people of Ornara will suffer horrible withdrawal pains.
PICARD: No doubt, but they will pass.
CRUSHER: That seems so cruel. We could have made their burden easier.
PICARD: Could we have? Perhaps in the short term. But to what end? Hold. Beverly, the Prime Directive is not just a set of rules. It is a philosophy, and a very correct one. History has proved again and again that whenever mankind interferes with a less developed civilization, no matter how well intentioned that interference may be, the results are invariably disastrous.
CRUSHER: It's hard to be philosophical when faced with suffering.
PICARD: Believe me, Beverly, there was only one decision.
CRUSHER: I just hope it was the right one.
PICARD: And we may never know. Resume.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, take us out of orbit.
LAFORGE: Destination, sir?
PICARD: I don't care. Let's just get some distance between us and this system.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Course nine seven zero mark three one eight. Speed, warp three.
RIKER: Where will that take us, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: The Opraline system.
RIKER: An interesting choice. Why?
LAFORGE: Curiosity. We've never been there.
PICARD: Engage.

[Corridor]
RIKER: What was that?
DATA: I believe what could be termed the Manheim Effect is becoming more pronounced.
RIKER: This is where we started, if we are us.
DATA: Oh, we are us, sir, but they are also us. So indeed, we are both us at different points along the same time continuum.
PICARD: Bridge.

[Ready room]
PICARD: What have you learned?
DATA: We have completed a scan of the planet surface.
RIKER: We've discovered the second lab is on the far side of the planet, completely destroyed. Unable to determine what caused it. Otherwise, very little to clarify the situation.
DATA: Our sensors show an immense volume of energy emanating deep within the planet, and concentrated near Manheim's remaining laboratory.
PICARD: How is the energy being used.
RIKER: No idea.
PICARD: What's it's source?
DATA: I cannot be sure, sir, but I believe Manheim has developed a method for harnessing energy from the pulsar.
RIKER: It comes down to this, Captain. We've learned everything we can from here, and we are no closer to understanding it than we were twelve hours ago. Manheim is unable to help us, but hopefully, having been a good scientist, he kept notes.
DATA: I would need to study Manheim's records.
RIKER: And in order to do that we're going to have to go down there.
PICARD: What about the defense system Mrs. Manheim spoke of?
RIKER: It may have been connected to the main system, and when she lowered the shield she may have turned that off as well. If not, we'll deal with it as best we can.
PICARD: Prepare your team.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I wish I could talk to you, Professor Manheim. I bet you were really something.
CRUSHER: Deanna.
TROI: I wanted to see how he was doing.
CRUSHER: The same. Nothing I do seems to make any difference. That's not why you're here.
TROI: I thought I was the empath.

[Doctor's Office]
TROI: Are you all right?
CRUSHER: Why wouldn't I be? I've got one of the medical wonders of the galaxy dying in my sickbay.
TROI: That's not what I meant.
CRUSHER: I don't think I want to talk about what I think you mean.
TROI: Captain Picard
CRUSHER: I can't compete with a ghost from his past. No one could.
TROI: She's not a ghost. She's here right now.
CRUSHER: She may be in the here and now, but it's the ghost he sees. Excuse me, I have to get back to my patient.

[Bridge]
PICARD: How soon, Mister Data?
DATA: If Doctor Manheim's information is correct, by my calculations, the next time distortion should occur between twenty eight to forty seven minutes.
CRUSHER: Bridge, this is Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Doctor Manheim is awake and asking to speak with you, Captain. Alone.

[Bridge]
PICARD: On my way, Doctor.

[Corridor]
DATA: In both cases, the time distortions occurred along the same continuum as a preview or a reprise of a specific point in time.
PICARD: Where we are, where we were, and where we will be. Data, I want this to be an away team of one. You. I don't think there's any reason to risk anyone else.
DATA: It is reasonable, sir. After all, I am a machine and dispensable.
PICARD: Indispensable is the appropriate word. I think it should be only you because you seem more able to control the effects of the time distortion.
DATA: Oh, I see, sir. That is quite true, sir. I see time as a constant, whereas humans perceive time as flexible. Hence the expression, times flies when you're having fun, which until now has always confused me.
PICARD: Well, I want you to put a stitch in time and, er, save much more than nine.
DATA: Sir?
PICARD: If other members of the away team became disoriented, it could create additional problems and perhaps increase the danger.
DATA: I will go immediately, sir.
PICARD: Good luck, Data.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: All right. We have the coordinates exactly as the Professor specified.

[Vandor corridor]
DATA: Enterprise.
PICARD: Picard.
DATA: I am proceeding to the lab, sir.
PICARD: Maintain an open frequency, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, what's going on?

[Vandor corridor]
DATA: Doctor Manheim forgot to mention one of his security precautions, sir. I am proceeding into the laboratory.

[Laboratory]
PICARD: Mister Data, this channel will remain open. Please continue to report.
DATA: This appears to be the instrument Doctor Manheim described. It should confirm when the next time effect will occur.
RIKER: Data?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Did Manheim give you enough information to decipher the security code?

[Laboratory]
DATA: I will know in a moment, sir. According to calculations, the next time effect will occur in one minute thirty seconds.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What's the next step, Mister Data?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Patched is good enough. Well done. Beam back immediately.

[Laboratory]
DATA: With pleasure, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Is anything wrong?
RIKER: No, sir.
PICARD: Then set course for Sarona Eight. As I remember we were on our way for some much needed shore leave.
LAFORGE: Course set and laid in, sir.
PICARD: Warp five. Engage.
RIKER: I've only been there once, but they've got this great club. I don't remember the name of it. They serve these blue concoctions
TROI: It's across the square from the Zanza Men's Dance Palace.
PICARD: It's called the Blue Parrot Cafe, and you're buying.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: So the guy staggers to his feet and goes back to the girl, right? Well, she smiles, looks him right in the eye and says 'just try that in hyperspace!'
DATA: I see. So the difficulty in attaining such complex positioning in zero gravity environment, coupled with the adverse effect it would have on the psychological well being of the average human male, is what makes this anecdote so amusing. Yes. Very humorous indeed. Hysterical, in fact.
RIKER: What is our e.t.a. at Pacifica, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Twenty two hours fourteen minutes, sir.
RIKER: Increase to warp six.
LAFORGE: Aye sir. Full impulse.
RIKER: Do you think anyone would object to our arriving ahead of schedule?
TROI: I know I won't. I've been really looking forward to a nice swim.
DATA: You are aware, Counselor, that the holodeck can be programmed to recreate an oceanic environment.
TROI: Data, it's just not the same. Have you ever been for a real moonlight swim?
DATA: One can swim in moonlight?
TROI: How about you, Mister Worf?
WORF: Swimming is too much like bathing.
DATA: Commander Riker. I am receiving a Code Forty Seven.
RIKER: Verify.
DATA: It is a Code Forty Seven, sir. Starfleet emergency frequency.
TROI: Code Forty Seven. Captain's eyes only.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data, are you familiar with Dytallix B?
DATA: Dytallix B is one of seven uninhabited planets mined for the Federation by the Dytallix Mining Company. It is in the nearby Mira system.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, chart a course for it immediately. Warp seven. And there will be no records or logs mentioning any aspect of this diversion.
RIKER: Captain, they're expecting us at Pacifica. Shouldn't we contact them and let them know.
PICARD: Negative. Nothing goes out without specific orders from me. Hopefully the delay will be minimal.
DATA: I have the readout on Dytallix B, Commander.
RIKER: What have you got?
DATA: Dytallix B is the fifth of six planets circling the red giant known as Mira. One side always faces the sun, where temperatures reach up to one hundred and eighty degrees. The mines line the temperate zone between the day and night sides, but they are long deserted.
RIKER: Why the devil are we be going to this planet? Are there any miners or indigenous life forms on the planet?
DATA: I believe the answer to both questions is no, sir. In a manner of speaking, it is nothing but a lifeless hunk of rock, a useless ball of mud, a worthless chunk
RIKER: Thank you, Data. I get the idea. Captain, we are approaching Dytallix B.
PICARD: Very good, Number One. I'm on my way.
WORF: Captain, sensors are detecting three Federation starships already in orbit around the planet.
PICARD: Identify.
WORF: Two are frigates. The Renegade commanded by Tryla Scott, and the Thomas Paine, Captain Rixx commanding.
DATA: The third is just coming into range now, sir. It is Ambassador Class heavy cruiser, USS Horatio.
RIKER: Horatio? Isn't that Walker Keel's ship?
WORF: Attempts at communication have been ignored by all three vessels.
PICARD: Make no further attempts, Mister Worf. Any life form readings on the surface, Data?
DATA: Three, sir. All gathered inside what appears to be the entrance to a mining tunnel.
PICARD: Very well. Relay those coordinates to the transporter room. I'm beaming down.
RIKER: Alone, Captain?
PICARD: Alone, Number One.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Friends, close friends, are few and far between. Two of the oldest and closest are Jack Crusher, may he rest in peace, and Walker Keel. Before various missions split us apart, we were virtually inseparable. I trust Keel completely. If he felt it necessary to violate regulations, he must have had a good reason.
TROI: But you're putting your career at risk for him.
PICARD: Friendship must dare to risk, Counselor, or it's not friendship.
TROI: They illicitly used the emergency channel to draw you here. Then they asked you to keep secrets from your superiors. Effectively, to disobey Starfleet regulations.
PICARD: The people involved in this are of the highest caliber. If I didn't believe in their loyalty, I wouldn't have gone this far.
TROI: Don't you think you should tell the rest of the crew?
PICARD: No. I don't want to risk implicating them. Not until I have solid evidence that something really is wrong.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Take us out of orbit, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Resume heading to Pacifica, warp factor eight.
LAFORGE: Aye sir, warp eight.
DATA: At that speed sir, we should arrive nine point six three hours behind the original schedule, sir.
PICARD: Very good. Data, I have an assignment for you. One especially suited to your talents.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Doctor.
CRUSHER: I understand the Horatio was in orbit around Dytallix. Did you see Walker?
PICARD: No.
CRUSHER: Oh. I would have loved to have seen him.
PICARD: It wasn't possible, Doctor.
WORF: Captain, I am picking up an unusual disturbance in a nearby quadrant.
LAFORGE: Confirmed, sir. Sector sixty three.
PICARD: Specify. What kind of disturbance?
WORF: Hard to say at this distance, sir.
RIKER: I guess the trip Pacifica will have to wait.
PICARD: Let's investigate. Maintain speed. Alter course accordingly.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Changing course to three five one mark four.
LAFORGE: Approaching sector sixty three, sir.
PICARD: Slow to impulse.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Going to impulse power, now.
WORF: Sensors beginning to pick up small objects, sir.
PICARD: On screen.
RIKER: It doesn't look natural.
PICARD: Agreed. Enlarge and identify.
WORF: It looks like debris. From a space vessel of some kind.
RIKER: It could be one of those ships that was orbiting Dytallix.
LAFORGE: We are in close proximity to that planet.
PICARD: Identifying marks, Mister Worf?
WORF: Nothing so far. Sensors not detecting any bodies in the flotsam, but from the amount of wreckage. I'm sorry sir. It can only be the Horatio. From the looks of it, she's been totally destroyed. Captain's personal log, stardate 41776.1. The apparent death of Walker Keel has had a powerful impact on me. I now believe there may be a cancer growing within the ranks of Starfleet. As a result, I have alerted my Executive Officer to the suspicions voiced by Keel and the others.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: There's no proof of anything.
PICARD: The last time I saw Admiral Quinn he tried to warn me about a subversion within the Federation. Then Walker tried, and he's dead.
RIKER: Subversion? Personally, I don't believe this conspiracy theory.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: But we have no facts. We have to assume the explosion was an accident.
PICARD: Number One, I believe what happened on the Horatio was sabotage.
RIKER: But we can't be certain.
DATA: Perhaps we can. My orders were to search for abnormal patterns in Starfleet's directives. I believe I have found just that.
DATA: These are various outposts and starbases where I have detected unusual activity over the past few months.
PICARD: What sort of activity?
DATA: An uncustomary reshuffling of personnel, usually in the command areas. The new officers have had frequent contact with the highest levels of Starfleet Command.
RIKER: Why hasn't anybody discovered this before?
DATA: The orders were given with great subtlety. To use an aphorism, Starfleet's left hand did not know what its right hand was doing.
PICARD: Data, can you speculate as to the purpose of these reassignments?
DATA: I believe it is a clandestine attempt to control vital sectors of Federation territory.
RIKER: This could be a prelude to an invasion. But who's behind it?
DATA: There is insufficient data to make such an assessment, sir.
RIKER: Are you suggesting that we warp over to Starfleet headquarters and demand to know what's going on?
DATA: Why not?
PICARD: Yes, why not? We're talking about a threat to the entire future of the Federation. I don't think any of us can rest easy until we've been to the source. Captain's personal log, supplemental. While it is quite unusual for a starship to return to Earth, we seem to be left with no other choice. I have apprised the remaining bridge crew of our situation.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: It's not Gregory Quinn. It may look like him and sound like him, but it isn't him.
RIKER: Are you absolutely certain, Captain?
PICARD: I'm certain, Number One. I want you to stay close. Keep your eye on his every move. Have Beverly concoct some reason for giving him a full medical examination.
RIKER: How?
PICARD: I don't know, just do it.
RIKER: He's a senior Admiral.
PICARD: It's not him, Will. I know that now. What I have to find out is how this happened, and who or what is behind it.
RIKER: Captain, if you're right.
PICARD: I'm right.
RIKER: Should you be beaming down there alone, unarmed?
PICARD: I'll take care. Find out what you can, then join me, in force if necessary. Energize.
RIKER: Good luck, sir.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Retinal scans are an exact match It really is Quinn.
LAFORGE: How can that be? The man picked me up like a rag doll.
CRUSHER: I'm going to have to do a complete internal scan.
LAFORGE: Keep me posted, Doctor, I'll be on the Bridge.
CRUSHER: What is that?

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: May I speak freely?

[Ante room]
PICARD: I suppose I have little choice. Where's Riker?
CRUSHER: He was attacked by Quinn, or what we thought was Quinn.
PICARD: Specify, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: A parasitic being has invaded Quinn's body. It has complete control over all brain functions. It seems to breath through a small gill protruding from the back of Quinn's neck.

[Ante room]
CRUSHER: Look for this, Captain. I believe it will be visible on anyone who has been compromised.
PICARD: Any idea what it is or where it comes from?
CRUSHER: Negative.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I've never seen anything like it before.
DATA: Lieutenant Worf, if the situation is under control, please report to the Bridge.
WORF: Doctor?
CRUSHER: It's okay. He won't be waking up for a long time.

[Ante room]
PICARD: Continue, Doctor.
CRUSHER: By the placement of the tendrils

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: The parasite appears to stimulate the victim's adrenal glands, generate great strength

[Ante room]
CRUSHER: And resistance to the
PICARD: Never mind the details. Can you remove it?
CRUSHER: I don't think so.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Not without killing the patient. Captain.

[Hallway]
PICARD: Aaron!

[Bridge]
RIKER: It was Doctor Crusher's idea to simulate the blue gill. We had to make sure it would fool everyone, including you.
PICARD: That it did, Number One. Rest assured.
DATA: Captain, I have attempted to trace the message Remmick was sending. I believe it was aimed at an unexplored sector of our galaxy.
LAFORGE: Any idea what the message was, Data?
DATA: I believe it was a beacon.
PICARD: A beacon?
DATA: Yes, sir. A homing beacon, sent from Earth.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I wonder how it got out here.
WORF: At its present speed and heading, it will eventually enter the Kazis binary system and will certainly be destroyed. I could attach a tractor beam and adjust its heading.
RIKER: I think not, Mister Worf. It's just a piece of space debris. If we hadn't sitting here waiting for the Captain, we wouldn't have noticed it. Leave it be. Let nature take its course. How long until Captain Picard returns?
WORF: The last communication indicated it would be several hours.
DATA: Commander, request permission to investigate this vehicle.
RIKER: Why, Data? It's just a derelict.
DATA: It is a piece of history. The opportunity to examine such an ancient vehicle does not come around very often, and as you pointed out, we do have the time.
RIKER: Very well. Be prepared to beam back before the Captain returns.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, go with him.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Derelict ship]
DATA: Minimal oxygen atmosphere. An ancient solar generator, still operating.
WORF: Commander, look at this.
DATA: The on-board computers have ceased functioning. I may be able to download this old style disk drive back to the Enterprise.
WORF: It must be sealed, probably with age.
DATA: Not necessary.

[Cryo chamber]
DATA: The seal was broken and the environment has been corrupted.
WORF: Here's another.
DATA: This one is empty.
WORF: Commander, look at this.
WORF: Were they frozen for an extended journey?
DATA: If that were the purpose, there would be evidence of a more sophisticated monitoring system. These containers were designed solely for refrigeration.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: The Captain's shuttle is approaching the main Shuttlebay, sir.
PICARD: Enterprise, this is the Captain. Number One, I want to get underway as soon as the shuttle is secure.
RIKER: Aye, sir. We'll make all preparations. Commander Data, return to the Enterprise immediately.
DATA: We have run into an unusual situation, sir. There are people on board. Frozen.
RIKER: Frozen. How many?

[Cryo chamber]
DATA: Three. The vehicle has suffered severe damage. Most of her systems have failed.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Are you suggesting they be transferred to the Enterprise?

[Cryo chamber]
DATA: I do not believe we should leave them here, sir. With your permission, we will be returning with three containers.
RIKER: Whatever you do, do it quickly.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, set course zero five eight, mark one seven three.
LAFORGE: Laying it in, sir.
PICARD: Number One, I want a staff meeting on the observation deck.
LAFORGE: Captain, those coordinates will take us right into the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: That is correct, Mister La Forge. Warp factor eight.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Warp eight.
PICARD: Engage.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: What is it, Doctor?
CRUSHER: It's the people from the capsule.
PICARD: Capsule? People? What people?
CRUSHER: The people Data beamed over.
PICARD: I wasn't aware that he had.
CRUSHER: Well he did, and they were frozen. I thawed them.
PICARD: You what?
CRUSHER: I didn't know what else to do. The crypts in which they were frozen were literally falling apart.
PICARD: So what's their condition?
CRUSHER: Right now, they are all sleeping. Each of them needed minor medical attention. Minor now, but then their conditions were obviously terminal. One had a heart problem, another had an advanced case of emphysema with extensive liver damage. You know the most surprising thing of all, is that each of them had been frozen after they died.
PICARD: After they died?
CRUSHER: Cryonics. It was a kind of fad in the late twentieth century. People feared dying. It terrified them. At the moment of death, they would be frozen, so that later, some time in the future, when presumably medical science had a cure for whatever killed them, they could be thawed back to life, healed, and sent on about their business.
PICARD: In the case of this group, it apparently worked. Mister Data, will you report to Sickbay.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Immediately.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Look, I am never critical of any member of my staff being curious, but it's just that the timing is so
DATA: I could not leave them there, Captain. The condition of their vehicle was deteriorating.
PICARD: But Data, they were already dead. I mean, what more could have happened to them?
DATA: I see your point, Captain, but at the time it seemed the proper thing to do.
PICARD: Well, they're alive now. We're going to have to treat them as living human beings.
CRUSHER: Alive and well and ready to be awakened.
PICARD: Before you wake them up, I want to have Security here. Lieutenant Worf, report to Sickbay.
CRUSHER: I have them sedated now, but they should be up and about as soon as possible.
PICARD: Well, then we have no other choice.
CRUSHER: None that I can see.
PICARD: Welcome to the twenty fourth century.
DATA: I was able to retrieve some information from the ancient disk I removed from the module's computer. Her name is Clare Raymond, age thirty five, occupation homemaker. Must be some kind of construction work.
CRUSHER: She died of an embolism. It probably happened very suddenly, otherwise her physical condition was excellent.
DATA: His name is Ralph Offenhouse, age fifty five, occupation financier.
CRUSHER: Advanced cardiomyopathy. Inoperable at the time, but easily correctable now. He must have known his condition was terminal for quite some time.
DATA: Much of his file we could not retrieved. His name is L Q Sonny Clemonds. Apparently his occupation had something to do with music.
CRUSHER: There was marked deterioration of every system in his body. Probably from massive chemical abuse. Unbelievable.
PICARD: That sounds like someone who hated life. Yet he had himself frozen presumably so he could go through it all again.
CRUSHER: Too afraid to live, too scared to die.
PICARD: Doctor, this seems to be a situation more suited to your talents. I'll leave it with you. I'll be on the Bridge.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, kindly take charge of our guests until we have time to decide what we're going to do with them.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Number One, keep them out of my way.

[Bridge]
TROI: As you know, there is very little available on the Romulans.
PICARD: Counselor, anything would be helpful.
TROI: They seem to be creatures of extremes. One moment violent beyond description, the next tender. They are related to the Vulcans, but as each race developed, their differences grew wider. They are intensely curious. Their belief in their own superiority is beyond arrogance. For some reason they have exhibited a fascination with humans and it is that fascination, more than anything else, that has kept the peace. One other thing. They will not initiate anything. They will wait for you to commit yourself.
PICARD: Counter-punchers. Thank you, Counselor. That's quite valuable.

[Corridor]
DATA: What is to be done with them, sir?
RIKER: I don't know.
DATA: Commander, a low mileage pit woofie?
RIKER: This time you've got me. I haven't a clue.
DATA: These are the most unusual humans I have ever encountered.
RIKER: Well, from what I've seen of our guests, there's not much to redeem them. It makes one wonder how our species survived the twenty-first century.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Counselor, will you get those people under control. We cannot afford this continuing distraction.
TROI: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, there is nothing left of Outpost Delta Zero Five.
LAFORGE: Must have been one hell of an explosion.
DATA: Sensors indicate no evidence of conventional attack.
PICARD: Can you determine what happened?
WORF: The outpost was not just destroyed, it's as though some great force just scooped it off the face of the planet.
PICARD: Could it have been a natural phenomenon?
WORF: Insufficient information, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Sir?
PICARD: Set course for the next closest station.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We are approaching Tarod Nine.
DATA: The condition is identical, Captain.
WORF: Everyone and everything is gone.
RIKER: Captain, I strongly recommend that we go to Red Alert. If the Romulans have improved their cloaking device, and we'd be fools to believe they haven't, we should assume a more defensive posture.
WORF: I agree, Captain. I recommend we go immediately to battle stations.
PICARD: I appreciate your advice and concern, but this is not the time for rash actions. We are still investigating. There are three other stations in this sector we have to visit. Let's proceed in a calm and orderly manner.
RIKER: If not battle stations, may we at least take the ship to Yellow Alert?
PICARD: Yes, Number One. That would be prudent. Make it so.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Captain, I have plotted a course to intercept the Charleston, but they've just informed me that they'll be making an extended stop at Arloff Nine.
PICARD: Your point, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Well, at warp eight, we could have our guests at Starbase Thirty Nine Sierra in five days. Take months off their journey.
PICARD: But they'll benefit from the extended time. It will allow them to acclimate before returning to Earth.
RIKER: It's a pity we can't take them ourselves. Having them on board is like a visit from the past.
PICARD: That would take us in the wrong direction. Our mission is to go forward, and it's just begun. Set velocity. Warp six, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Warp six.
PICARD: There's still much to do. Still so much to learn. Mister La Forge, engage.

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: We're constructing the enclosure on cargo deck five.
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: The transfer's been complete. Doctor Pulaski is being shown to her quarters. We're ready to get underway.
PICARD: Grand. Take a look at the containment module our Chief Engineer has designed.
RIKER: Chief Engineer. It still has a nice ring to it.
LAFORGE: Each of these units will have total environmental control. Gravity, temperature, atmosphere, light, all in a protective stasis field.
RIKER: And these get put into the large containment unit.
LAFORGE: Right. See, these modules will keep the specimens alive, but it's this large containment area that's going to keep us alive. Now, I have to go and replicate this five hundred and twelve times, which means I'll have to divert power from the warp engines to the replicator for a while.
PICARD: How long will we be on impulse power?
LAFORGE: A couple of hours. Can't be helped.
RIKER: When we leave 'audet Nine, I'm going to need all the power you can slam into those warp engines.
LAFORGE: You'll have it.
PICARD: I'll relieve you at zero three zero zero.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Take us out of orbit, Mister Crusher. Set course for 'audet Nine.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Course for 'audet Nine has been input.
RIKER: Maximum impulse velocity.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Engage.
DATA: Engineering, this is Science One. I have just observed what appeared to be a random energy transference.

[La Forge's office]
LAFORGE: Where?
DATA: Aft. Outboard of the port nacelle.
LAFORGE: Hold on, I'll check.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: No, I show nothing here, Data.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Problem, Commander?
DATA: Possibility, sir. An unexplained power fluctuation.
RIKER: Let me know if it reoccurs.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Captain's log, Stardate 42073.1. There has been an outbreak of an unclassified plasma plague in the Rachelis system. We are on an emergency run to collect specimens of the deadly plague and transport them to Science Station Tango Sierra, where hopefully an antidote can be produced.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Deck ten, forward station one.
WESLEY: Hello, Captain.
PICARD: Ensign. I'm sorry this mission will delay your reunion with your mother.
WESLEY: That's all right. That will give me the time to finish some projects I have to do. It's going to be hard leaving the Enterprise.
PICARD: Mixed feelings for all of us. It's always difficult leaving any ship, just as it was for your mother

[Corridor]
PICARD: When she left to become head of Starfleet Medical. But going from one assignment to another is part of the life which you are choosing.
WESLEY: I know, but this isn't any ship.
PICARD: How true.

[Ten forward]
PICARD: Guinan.
GUINAN: Captain.
PICARD: Where is Doctor Pulaski? Thank you. (Picard goes over to a table by a window occupied by Troi and another woman. Everyone say Hi! to Ann Mulhall, or Miranda Jones if you prefer)
PICARD: Doctor Katherine Pulaski?
PULASKI: Ah you must be Captain Picard.
PICARD: Doctor, protocol may have been lax on your last assignment, but here on the Enterprise.
PULASKI: Sit down, Captain. You'd better listen to this.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Lieutenant La Forge, status report.
LAFORGE: The containment area is completed, Captain, and the last of the modules are being inserted.
PICARD: Take us to warp six as soon as possible.
LAFORGE: Acknowledged.
PICARD: This is Doctor Katherine Pulaski. We will handle the formal introduction later. Counselor Deanna Troi is pregnant. She is going to have a baby.
RIKER: Baby? This is a surprise.
TROI: More so for me.
PULASKI: This pregnancy is unlike anything I have ever encountered. Since she came to me a few hours ago, I have done two complete examinations of Counselor Troi. This is from the first examination. The fetus is about halfway through the first trimester, about six weeks old. Now, understand we believe conception took place eleven hours ago.
RIKER: What?
PULASKI: It gets better. This is the second exam one hour later. Now, it's consistent, except for the fact that it appears the fetus is several weeks older. At this growth rate, Counselor Troi will have her baby in about thirty six hours. The normal gestation rate for a Betazoid is ten months.
RIKER: I don't mean to be indelicate, but who's the father?
TROI: Last night, while I slept, something which I can only describe as a presence, entered my body.
PICARD: A life form of unknown origin and intent is breeding right now inside Counselor Troi. Our purpose here is to determine what is to be done about this very unusual situation. Discussion.
RIKER: No, wait. Let me get this straight. Deanna was impregnated by by what? Doctor, what do the tests show? Is it a humanoid? An alien?
PULASKI: It's a male human, or in this case half-human half-Betazoid.
RIKER: Exactly the same as Deanna.
PULASKI: In every way. In fact, there is nothing to indicate that there are any genetic patterns other than hers.
RIKER: I don't think this is a random occurrence. I think there's a purpose here. A reason. What, I don't know.
WORF: Captain, obviously the pregnancy must be terminated for the safety of the ship and crew.
RIKER: Worf, you can't assume the intent was belligerent.
WORF: That is the safest assumption.
DATA: Captain, this is a life form. Not to allow it to develop naturally would deny us the opportunity to study it.
WORF: If the fetus is aborted, laboratory analysis is still possible.
RIKER: Doctor, is there any health risk to Counselor Troi if the fetus is aborted?
TROI: Captain, do whatever you feel is necessary to protect the ship and the crew, but know this. I'm going to have this baby.
PICARD: Then it seems that the discussion is over.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We have finally arrived at 'audet Nine, where we will pick up the specimens of plasma plague for transport to Rachelis. It is only because so many lives are at stake that I am willing to put this ship and crew at such great risk. Meanwhile, Counselor Troi's pregnancy continues to progress at an astonishing rate.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, the final manifest has been received.
PICARD: At last. Review it with Doctor Pulaski. I want you both to be completely familiar with it.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
TROI: Data, will you help me get to Sickbay.

[Pulaski's office]
TROI: It's time.
PULASKI: Oh, you bet it is. Let's get you to Maternity.
DATA: Worf, assemble your security team in Sickbay.
PULASKI: Is that necessary?
DATA: Yes, Doctor. Captain's orders.
PULASKI: Well, it's strange to need armed guards in a delivery room. This way.

[Bridge]
PULASKI: Captain.
PICARD: Doctor. Welcome to the Bridge. Please, sit down. How is Counselor Troi? Did she have a good night?
PULASKI: I've delivered dozens of babies, but none like this. There was no pain, no trauma.
RIKER: It's true.
PULASKI: It was effortless for both of them.
PICARD: I'm not sure of your point.
PULASKI: She had her baby yesterday. If I were to examine her now, I would not be able to tell she had a baby, or had ever had a baby. It was as if the incident never happened.
PICARD: Data, how long before we begin the transfer?
DATA: Two hours nineteen minutes, sir.
PICARD: Number One, you have the Bridge.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: You will accompany me, Doctor? Please? I think it's time I paid my respects.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Sickbay, this is the Bridge. We are ready to begin loading.
PULASKI: We need a little more time. It's taking longer than we anticipated to categorize these specimens.

[Pulaski's office]
PULASKI: Da ta, look at this.
DATA: Data.
PULASKI: What?
DATA: My name. It is pronounced Data.
PULASKI: Oh?
DATA: You called me Da ta.
PULASKI: What's the difference?
DATA: One is my name. The other is not.
PULASKI: Is this possible? With all of your neural nets, algorithms, and heuristics, is there some combination makes up a circuit for bruised feelings? Possible? I am unfamiliar with this symbol.
DATA: It indicates a genetically engineered biological life form.
PULASKI: About twenty percent of the specimens fall into that category. Some eager beaver at play.
DATA: Query. Eager beaver?
PULASKI: Well in this case, eager beaver refers to some overachieving genetic engineer, who, probably because of lack of anything better to do, has forced this strain of virus to mutate, just so we can see how bad, bad can get. Captain Picard.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Picard.
PULASKI: I just wanted you to know what risks we're about to take.
PICARD: Go on.

[Pulaski's office]
PULASKI: If the most innocuous specimen on the manifest list gets loose,

[Bridge]
PULASKI: It will destroy all life on the Enterprise in a matter of hours.
PICARD: I understand, Doctor. Do you have a recommendation?

[Pulaski's office]
PULASKI: Considering how desperately this is needed, no, I don't. I just wanted you to know what we were carrying.
PICARD: Thank you.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Commander Data, if you have completed your review, you are needed in transporter room three.

[Pulaski's office]
DATA: Aye, sir. Excuse me, Doctor.
PULASKI: That's all right. Da ta. Data. Whatever.

[Cargo deck five]
O'BRIEN: On your command.
LAFORGE: Transporter three, we are ready to receive.
LAFORGE: Data, the first batch is in place, and we're ready for the next.
RIKER: You'll inform me when loading is complete and the cargo secure.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Cargo has been loaded and is secure.
PICARD: Then take us out of orbit, Number One. Set a course for Rachelis, warp six.

[Ten forward]
GUINAN: Can I get you something?
WESLEY: No, nothing. I just like to stand here.
GUINAN: I don't blame you. It's beautiful.
WESLEY: Yes.
GUINAN: How about some nice Mareuvian Tea?
WESLEY: No, nothing. Thank you.
GUINAN: You'll be leaving soon.
WESLEY: Yes.
GUINAN: What do you see when you look out there?
WESLEY: The Lorenze cluster, and there Arneb and there Epsilon Indi.
GUINAN: That's not what I mean. I mean, when you look there, don't you see your future?
WESLEY: It'll still be there.
GUINAN: How about a cup of nectar direct from Prometheus?
WESLEY: No, nothing. That's the third time you've asked me.
GUINAN: It's what I'm expected to do. Don't you always do what's expected?
WESLEY: I try.
GUINAN: Even if it's not what you really want?
WESLEY: Sometimes. Sometimes it's more important to consider others before yourself.
GUINAN: Yes. But sometimes the game is to know when to consider yourself before others. Give yourself permission to be selfish.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Yes, La Forge?
LAFORGE: Captain, we have a malfunction in the containment area.
PICARD: How serious?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report, Mister La Forge.

[Cargo deck five]
LAFORGE: Captain, we've checked everything. There's no reason for this to be happening. I can't even isolate the cause of the problem.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Come on Data, we'd better get down there.
PICARD: Doctor Pulaski.
PULASKI: Yes, Captain?
PICARD: We're having a little difficulty on cargo deck five. Your presence is requested.
PULASKI: I'm on my way.

[Ten forward]
WESLEY: You never talk about yourself.
GUINAN: Sure I do. All the time.
WESLEY: People say you're very old.
GUINAN: Oh?
WESLEY: And that you knew Captain Picard when he was on the Stargazer.
GUINAN: No, I never knew the Captain till I came onboard.
WESLEY: Everyone's very curious about you.
GUINAN: Yes, I'll bet they are.
WESLEY: They want to know where you're from.
GUINAN: Where do they say?
WESLEY: I heard that you're from Nova Kron and that
PICARD: Mister Crusher, report to the Bridge.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Got to go. Thanks.
GUINAN: For a dish of Delovian souffl?
WESLEY: No, not for the souffl. I meant, for the rest.
GUINAN: That's why I'm here.
WESLEY: Thanks. Bye.

[Bridge]
RIKER: If we lose containment, we should be prepared to separate.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Standard station orbit, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Aye, sir, standard orbit.
PICARD: Transporter room three, this is the Captain. We have arrived.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Let's make this transfer with all deliberate speed.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I'll be glad to be relieved of this cargo.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.
WESLEY: Captain. Could I see you when you have a moment?
PICARD: In my Ready room, when your duties permit.
WESLEY: Thank you, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
WESLEY: Captain Picard, I've thought about this a lot. I want to remain on the Enterprise.
PICARD: Have you discussed this with your mother?
WESLEY: No, sir. Before I do that, I'd like your permission to stay.
PICARD: Wesley, it's a little more complicated than that.
WESLEY: Captain, this is where I want to be. This is where I feel I belong.
RIKER: Captain, transfer complete. We are ready to leave orbit.
PICARD: Make it so, Number One. Return to your position.

[Bridge]
RIKER: All stations secure.
PICARD: Take us out of orbit, Mister Crusher. Lay in a course for the Morgana Quadrant.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Ensign Crusher has requested to remain on the Enterprise.
RIKER: I'm not surprised. How did you respond?
PICARD: I haven't as yet, Number One. I didn't think it was my responsibility alone. His remaining will create difficulties for us all.
RIKER: Yes, indeed. With his mother gone, who will see to his studies?
PICARD: Exactly. Of course, that duty will fall to Commander Data.
RIKER: And who will tuck him in at night?
WESLEY: Come on, Commander.
WORF: I will accept that responsibility.
TROI: Well, we know he'll get his sleep.
PICARD: That takes care of the practical, but there's more to growing up than that. It's my belief, Number One, that you're best qualified to supervise that. Are you willing to serve?
RIKER: Difficult decision. Yes, I can do that.
PICARD: Well, Mister Crusher, communicate with your mother at Starfleet Medical headquarters. Give her my regards, and tell her you have my permission to remain on the Enterprise, but I will abide by her wishes.
WESLEY: Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. I know she'll agree.
PICARD: Now, if you have course and speed laid in.
WESLEY: Yes sir, they are.
PICARD: Then, Mister Crusher, engage.

[Bridge]
TROI: You're worried.
PICARD: With reason.
TROI: About Worf or Commander Riker?
PICARD: Both. I think it is perhaps best to be ignorant of certain elements of Klingon psyche.

[Holodeck]
RIKER: Above, look out!
RIKER: The exercise is over!
RIKER: At ease, Lieutenant!
RIKER: Exit Holodeck. You do this every day?
WORF: No, Commander. Usually my calisthenics are more intense, but those sessions are too personal to be shared.
RIKER: I'll bet they are.
WORF: Computer. Program complete. Save. Coming Commander?
RIKER: Right behind you.
PICARD: Captain's log, Stardate 42193.6. We are on a long reach toward the Morgana Quadrant, a section of the galaxy which has yet to be visited by a manned Federation vessel. We are using the time to further detail the charts of this region.

[Bridge]
DATA: There it is again. An area of blackness.
RIKER: It appears, then disappears, then reappears. No predictable pattern, no sequence.
PICARD: On screen.
RIKER: There it is.
PICARD: I can't see anything. Magnify section two eight five.
WESLEY: There it is, sir. It's like a hole in space.
PICARD: We're acquainted with the wormhole phenomenon, but this? This appears quite different. What do your sensors indicate?
DATA: Nothing, sir.
RIKER: Nothing?
PICARD: Mister Data, you must mean it's empty of matter. There's always some energy form at work.
DATA: Sir, our sensors are showing that to be an absence of everything. It is a void without matter or energy of any kind.
RIKER: Yet this hole has a form, Data. It has height, width.
DATA: Perhaps. Perhaps not, sir.
PICARD: That is hardly a scientific observation, Commander.
DATA: Captain, the most elementary and valuable statement in science, the beginning of wisdom, is I do not know. I do not know what that is, sir.
WESLEY: Captain, if this were any ordinary kind of hole in space wouldn't we be able to see what's behind it?
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: I know what you're asking, but I feel nothing from it.
RIKER: Data, is there any record anywhere of any occurrence even vaguely similar to this?
DATA: Accessing. Negative, sir. There is no record of any Federation vessel encountering anything remotely like this.
PICARD: Indeed. I believe we have time to take a closer look, Number One.
RIKER: Concur. Ensign, slow down to half impulse power. Adjust coordinates to intercept this, this whatever it is.
PICARD: Scanning and recording as we go.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Adjusting course to intercept in twelve minutes, sir.
PICARD: Let's launch a probe into it.
RIKER: Worf, prepare a scanner probe. Let's see what's in there.
PICARD: This is close enough, Ensign. Hold this position.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Holding this position.
RIKER: You may fire the probe when ready, Mister Worf.
DATA: All the probe's systems are functioning perfectly.
WORF: It's gone.
PICARD: Data, what happened?
DATA: Unknown, sir.
WORF: Recommend we go to a Yellow Alert, sir.
PICARD: Why? Explain.
WORF: Sorry, sir. It's
PICARD: Mister Worf, this starship operates best when my officers share with me what is their minds.
WORF: My thoughts were of an old Klingon legend of a gigantic black space creature which was said to devour entire vessels.
RIKER: Devour vessels?
WORF: Sorry, Commander. I agree these are thoughts hardly worthy of a trained and practical Security Officer.
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you launch another probe. This time a Class One with full sensor array.
WORF: Launching, sir.
RIKER: Happened even more quickly.
WORF: Recommend we fire a photon torpedo, Captain.
PICARD: Negative.
WESLEY: Captain, based on where the probes disappeared I have been able to plot the outer boundaries. I could move in closer.
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Crusher. Thrusters only. Mister Data?
DATA: Still no readings of any kind, sir.
PICARD: Number One?
RIKER: I'm going with Worf on this one. Let's be careful.
PICARD: All right, that's enough, Ensign. Come to full stop and hold these coordinates.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: What's happened?
PICARD: Data?
DATA: Whatever it is, sir, we seem to be inside it.
PICARD: It enveloped us. It moved. All stations, report.
DATA: No response, Captain.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. While exploring a strange void in space without any form of matter or energy, we have apparently moved past its outer boundary and entered it. After a brief disruption, our ship's communications have returned to normal.

[Bridge]
RIKER: All stations have reported, Captain. There appears to be no immediate threat to our ship or the crew.
PICARD: Let's hold this position for a while, Number One. This is worth studying.
RIKER: Incredible. It's like looking into infinity, sir. Remember the course in ancient history at Starfleet Academy? About the time men still believed the Earth was flat?
PICARD: And that the sun revolved around it.
RIKER: And that if a ship sailed too far out into the ocean, it would fall off the edge of the world?
PICARD: Beyond this place there be dragons. It's even said that crews threatened to hang their captain from the yard arm if he refused to turn back.
RIKER: I'm sure no one here has that in mind, sir.
PICARD: How comforting, Number One.
WESLEY: Captain, we have no communications outside of the void.
RIKER: Complete your scans, Data. Let's not stay any longer than we have to.
PICARD: Hello, Doctor. Have you been briefed on what's happened?
PULASKI: I heard, but I don't understand it, Captain.
PICARD: I wish I could say I did. Increase magnification by ten. By one hundred.
PULASKI: Isn't this impossible, sir? I'm not a Bridge officer, but. Increase by one thousand, Mister Data. By ten thousand. It does know how to do these things, doesn't it?
PICARD: Commander Data knows precisely what he is doing.
PULASKI: Forgive me, Mister Data. I'm not accustomed to working with non-living devices that. Forgive me again. Your service record says that you are alive. I must accept that.
PICARD: Engineering!
LAFORGE: Engineering.
PICARD: Lieutenant, are all your systems functioning?
LAFORGE: Yes, Captain. Wherever we are, it seems to have no effect on Engineering.
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant. Data?
DATA: Difficult to make a judgment, sir, based on the absence of information.
PICARD: Speculate.
DATA: This void has a total lack of dimension. Therefore, by any accepted standard, it does not exist, yet being within it denies that conclusion.
RIKER: Might we have moved into another dimension?
DATA: Could a lack of dimension be another dimension in itself?
PULASKI: That's an interesting question.
PICARD: For a later discussion. Number One, I think we should get on with our mission. Starfleet can send a science vessel back to investigate further. Move us back out of here.
RIKER: Aye, sir. Wesley, reverse our direction, set a course for the Cornelian star system. Impulse power.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Reversing direction. Course laid in.
RIKER: Engage.
RIKER: Your engines have engaged, haven't they, Ensign?
WESLEY: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Lieutenant La Forge, I'd like you to monitor our velocity closely.
LAFORGE: Is everything all right up there, Captain?
PICARD: Are the engines operating normally?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Everything looks fine down here.
PICARD: We're increasing to warp two.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: We should be seeing stars by now. Data, how far have we come?
DATA: Inertial guidance shows one point four parsecs traveled, Captain.
PICARD: Ensign?
WESLEY: Confirmed, sir. Exactly what my readings say.
LAFORGE: Engineering, transfer to Bridge. What's happening, sir? we should be clear.
RIKER: We should be. We're on a reverse course.
PICARD: Full stop, helm.
WESLEY: Full stop, sir.
PICARD: According to this we're already well past the point at which we entered the void.
DATA: Except that we are still in it, sir. Captain, if we dropped a stationary beacon and traveled straight away from it, we would have a fixed point of reference to confirm speed and distance.
PICARD: Make it so, Data. Lock onto the beacon. Keep it dead astern.
DATA: The beacon is in place, Captain.
PICARD: Dead ahead. Impulse power.
DATA: The beacon is falling astern, Captain.
PICARD: Engineering, report.
LAFORGE: All systems functioning normally, sir.
PICARD: Prepare to increase to warp two.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
DATA: Captain, we are receiving a signal from dead ahead.
PULASKI: Maybe you've found the door out of this.
DATA: Closing on the new signal, sir.
PICARD: Identify.
DATA: Captain, it is the stationary beacon we just released.
RIKER: We must have come full circle, sir.
WESLEY: We couldn't have, sir. I've shown us steadily moving away from that beacon.
PICARD: Full stop. Hold this position again.
WORF: Captain, sensors indicate a disturbance in sector one zero eight. Possibly a vessel.
PICARD: Perhaps some answers at last. On screen.
WORF: The ship is equipped with a cloaking device.
RIKER: Romulan!
WORF: It's closing.
RIKER: Shields up. Go to Red Alert!
PULASKI: I'll be at my duty station.
WORF: Main viewer locked onto coordinates.
RIKER: Arm the photon torpedoes, Mister Worf.
PICARD: Hold for my orders.
WESLEY: There!
WORF: It's uncloaking.
WORF: Direct hit, sir. Our shields are weakening.
PICARD: Warn them we'll return fire.
WORF: Transmitting. They've armed another full spread, sir.
PICARD: Fire torpedoes.
PICARD: Oh, that was too easy.
DATA: Captain, sensors can locate no debris from the Romulan ship.
RIKER: Impossible.
WORF: Captain, there's another vessel approaching in sector zero nine one, mark two six.
PICARD: On screen. Magnify.
RIKER: It's a Federation ship. NCC one three zero five dash E. It's the Yamato, our sister ship.
WESLEY: The Yamato's nowhere near this quadrant.
PICARD: Open a hailing frequency, Data.
DATA: USS Enterprise to USS Yamato. Respond, please. USS Enterprise calling USS Yamato. Respond, please, on this frequency. No response, Captain.
PICARD: Make a full scan.
DATA: Life support system, engineering and propulsion all appear functional. But there are no life signs, sir.
PICARD: Data, can we be getting a false reading?
DATA: Since we know nothing of these circumstances, it is at least conceivable, sir.
RIKER: You look doubtful, sir.
PICARD: I'm not anything now, Number One. I'm just a man who's looking for answers.
LAFORGE: Like the rat said, 'Keep the cheese, I just want out of the trap.'
RIKER: Captain, request permission to board on the Yamato with an away team. Perhaps something we can find on board in the logs will help us figure out what happened.
PICARD: Granted. Minimum complement.
RIKER: Worf, you're with me.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We remain like a fly in amber, trapped in the void. We have encountered a vessel which appears to be the USS Yamato. All its systems are shown as functioning, yet it seems devoid of life. Commander Riker is leading an away team. Hopefully, the answer lies over there.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Have you got a lock on that other ship?
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. No problems at all.
RIKER: Can you put us on the bridge?
O'BRIEN: Anywhere you say, Commander.
WORF: I am acquainted with the Yamato, Commander. Recommend the aft station of their bridge. When in doubt, surprise them.
RIKER: Them? Who's them?
WORF: Whoever may be there.
RIKER: Our sensors indicate no life forms.
WORF: Still, the tactic is sound.
RIKER: Agreed. Aft station, Lieutenant.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Phasers on stun. Energize.

[USS Yamato corridor]
RIKER: This isn't the Bridge. Worf?
RIKER: Halt! Don't fire.
WORF: I heard you screaming. I was coming to help.
RIKER: You heard me? I heard you. Transporter Chief, where do you show us over here?
O'BRIEN: We show as approximately
RIKER: Captain, do you read me?

[Bridge]
RIKER: We're having difficulties with our communications.
PICARD: Number One, come in. Transporter Room, this is the Captain. We are out of contact with the away team. Beam them back immediately.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I've lost the lock on them.

[USS Yamato corridor]
WORF: Nothing on my communicator, sir. Computer on.
RIKER: Let's find a turbolift to the Bridge.

[USS Yamato corridor]
RIKER: This isn't a Federation ship. These walls aren't tritanium. It's close, but it's material beyond our technology. Let's get to the Bridge. There's got to be an answer to all of this somewhere.

[USS Yamoto Bridge]
RIKER: This Bridge should be four decks above us. What's going on here?
WORF: That's not where we came from.
RIKER: Wait a minute.
WORF: Two Bridges?
RIKER: If we go through there, where will we be?
WORF: On the Bridge.
RIKER: But we are on the Bridge.
WORF: It's up to you, sir.
RIKER: Let's see what happens.

[USS Yamato Bridge Two]
WORF: Is it the same Bridge?
RIKER: Or did we step from one Bridge onto another Bridge?

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I have re-established contact with the away team.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Beam them back immediately.
DATA: Captain.

[USS Yamato - Bridge]
RIKER: Come in. Come in, Enterprise.
O'BRIEN: Hold position, away team.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I've got you. We're bringing you home.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: I know this much. We are unimportant to it.
WORF: In a battle for survival, Captain, thirty to fifty percent casualties
PULASKI: Would be appallling.
WORF: But within acceptable limits.
RIKER: This is not a battle, Worf.
TROI: No. A laboratory experiment would be the closest comparison.
PICARD: Is there any reason for not believing this Nagilum?
TROI: No.
DATA: All evidence indicates it is willing and able to do what it proposes.
PICARD: Agreed. Under the circumstances, I think there is only one decision. I will not stand by while half of my crew is slaughtered.
DATA: Sir. I do not believe there is anything you can do to prevent it.
PICARD: Yes, there is
PULASKI: What?
PICARD: Destroy the Enterprise.
PULASKI: Isn't that a little like curing the disease by killing the patient?
RIKER: It's better than standing around helplessly.
PULASKI: Why do get the feeling this was not the time to join this ship?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign, put us back on course. Warp three.
WESLEY: Yes, sir. Warp three.
RIKER: And Ensign, if you encounter any holes, steer clear.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: Data, what was the point in going to the holodeck?
DATA: To solve a Sherlock Holmes mystery.
LAFORGE: Exactly, but, you've got them all memorized. The first time someone opens their mouth, you've got it solved, so there's really no mystery. If there's no mystery, there's no game. No game, no fun. I'm not upset with you, Data, really. It's just that we go through all the trouble to arrange the time to go down to the holodeck, to get the proper wardrobe, to get into character, and then boom, before we even get started you jump to the end. You see, I was looking forward to the mystery.
DATA: Then I should have extended the sequence of events.
LAFORGE: Oh, I'm not getting through. The fun in the program, Data, was in the attempt to solve a mystery.
DATA: Is that not exactly what we were doing.
PULASKI: You are wasting your breath, Lieutenant. Saying that to Data is asking a computer not to compute.
DATA: Am I so different from you, Doctor? Are you able to cease thinking on command?
PULASKI: In medicine I'm often faced with puzzles that I do not know the answer to.
LAFORGE: She's right, Data. You always know the answer.
PULASKI: To feel the thrill of victory there has to be the possibility of failure. Where's the victory winning a battle you can't possibly lose?
DATA: Are you suggesting that there is some value in losing?
PULASKI: Yes. Yes, that's the great teacher. We humans learn more often from a failure or a mistake than we do from an easy success. But not you. You learn by rote. To you all is memorisation and recitation.
LAFORGE: I don't know about that. Deductive reasoning is one of Data's strengths.
PULASKI: Yes, and Holmes too. But Holmes understood the human soul. The dark flecks that drive us, that turn the innocent into the evil. That understanding is beyond Data. It comes from life experience which he doesn't have combined with human intuition for which he cannot be programmed.
LAFORGE: Now you're just being unfair, Doctor.
PULASKI: I don't think so, Lieutenant. Your artificial friend doesn't have a prayer of solving a Holmes mystery that he hasn't read.
DATA: I have read them all.
PULASKI: You see?
LAFORGE: Maybe the computer could create one in the Holmes style. One where you wouldn't know the outcome.
PULASKI: As I said, he wouldn't have a prayer.
DATA: I accept your challenge, Doctor.
LAFORGE: Good for you, Data.
DATA: We will return to the holodeck, where I will dare it to defeat me. And you, Madam, are invited to be a witness.
PULASKI: I wouldn't miss it.
DATA: Come, Watson.

[Bridge]
WORF: What was that?
RIKER: Lieutenant?
WORF: An odd surge of power, sir. It's gone now.

[Warehouse]
LAFORGE: There's nothing here but these barrels.
DATA: And a trail, which is so well marked, that obviously we are meant to follow it.
LAFORGE: Oh, no, Data. It's another dead end.
DATA: No, Watson. Not a dead end at all. Hello, what's this? Can you see the scratches?

[Street]
LAFORGE: Data. Data, will you please tell me what's going on?
DATA: Computer, exit!

[Street]
LAFORGE: It's still running. The program didn't shut down.
DATA: We must see the Captain.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Data, wait. What is it? What's on that paper? And why can't we shut down the holodeck? Data.
DATA: This.
LAFORGE: This is impossible. How can a character from 1890's London draw a picture of the Enterprise? Who's got control of the computer?
DATA: He does. Moriarty.
LAFORGE: That is impossible? I don't understand.
DATA: Nor do I.
LAFORGE: Data, wait. What about the doctor? Is she all right in there?
DATA: No. She is in grave danger.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Bridge to holodeck control. Worf.

[Corridor outside holodeck]
WORF: Here, sir.
RIKER: Status? Anything changed?
WORF: No, sir.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Damaged?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. She cracked a spar when the Enterprise was shaken. Otherwise I think she weathered it quite nicely.
PICARD: She's beautiful. A wonderful testimony to simpler times.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. It's just that I can't help thinking how. What else might have happened all because I misspoke a single word.
PICARD: Well, soon she'll be ship-shape and Bristol-fashion.
LAFORGE: Bristol fashion, sir?
PICARD: It's an old navy phrase, meaning everything in perfect order.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
PICARD: As are we, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Captain. Starship Victory has arrived.
PICARD: On my way, Number One.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Status on the repair?
LAFORGE: Working on it.
WESLEY: Commander, what do you think of Captain Okona?
RIKER: Well, Okona is an interesting man, certainly. We've seen how he handles his ship. Apparently he knows how to handle people as well.
WESLEY: Then why does he work alone?
RIKER: He's a man who lives his life by his own rules. He does what he does by choice. By his choice. Someday you'll make yours.
WESLEY: I already have.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: So you agree with Okona that I am missing a very important human factor.
GUINAN: I never said that. I simply said that I've never seen you laugh.
DATA: I am capable of that function when it is expected of me.
GUINAN: Data, do you even know what a joke is?
DATA: Of course I do. It is a witticism, a gag, a bon mot, a fluctuation of
GUINAN: Stop. Look, it's just you and I here. We're talking, we're having an intimate conversation. Why? Because you're a 'droid and I'm a 'noid.
DATA: But why?
GUINAN: Because that's what I am.
DATA: Have I said something to offend you?
GUINAN: No.
DATA: Then why are you annoyed?
GUINAN: Because you're a 'droid and I'm a 'noid.
DATA: Humanoid.
GUINAN: Yes.
DATA: You told a joke.
GUINAN: Yes.
DATA: I am not laughing.
GUINAN: Yes.
DATA: Perhaps the joke was not funny.
GUINAN: No, the joke was funny. It's you, Data.
DATA: Are you sure?
GUINAN: Yes.
DATA: I agree. What do I do?
GUINAN: Well, under normal circumstances, I'd say seek a higher power. But in your case, probably a smarter computer is in order.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: A guy walks into the doctor's office The doctor tells him you need an operation. The guy says I want a second opinion. The doctor said, okay, you're ugly too. Ba-boom boom. Was that funny?
GUINAN: No.
GUINAN: Data, you spoiled the joke. It could have been your timing.
DATA: My timing is digital. What?
GUINAN: That's funny.
DATA: Why?
GUINAN: It would take too long to explain. Tell me another joke.
DATA: A monk, a clone and a Ferengi decide to go bowling together.
PICARD: Commander Data, report to the main Bridge immediately.
DATA: I will be back.
GUINAN: Bring new jokes.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Any response from Gravesworld, Mister Worf?
WORF: Nothing sir. Not since their initial communication.
RIKER: They send out a plea for help, then they cut off transmission so they can't tell if there's any help on the way. Doesn't make much sense, does it?
PICARD: Ensign, what's our ETA at the planet?
WESLEY: Thirty six minutes to orbit, sir.
PICARD: Starfleet Command considers Graves' work on molecular cybernetics is reaching a critical stage. They consider this a priority one action.
PULASKI: A man is ill, Captain. Treating him is my priority one, regardless of who he is.

[Corridor]
TROI: Did Data say why he wants to see us?
LAFORGE: He said something about his new image. I tell you, he's been acting kind of strange lately.
TROI: How so?
LAFORGE: Well, if I didn't know better, I'd say he was showing signs of insecurity.
TROI: Yes, but you do know better. Androids don't feel such things.
LAFORGE: I don't know. Sometimes I think he's becoming more human than any of us realize.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Come in.
LAFORGE: Data?
DATA: Geordi? Is Counselor Troi with you?
TROI: Yes, I'm here, Data. Geordi said you wanted to see us.
DATA: Indeed. Or, stated more correctly, I wanted you to see me.
LAFORGE: Can we come in?
DATA: Please.
LAFORGE: Did you damage your face, Data?
DATA: It is a beard, Geordi. A fine, full, dignified beard. One which commands respect and projects thoughtfulness and dignity. Well? Opinions?
TROI: It's er, very different.
DATA: When I stroke the beard thusly, do I not appear more intellectual?
TROI: I'm sorry, I have to go now. Goodbye.
DATA: Why was she laughing?

[Engineering]
PICARD: Transport. This may be a little tricky. I would like you to handle it.
LAFORGE: Yes, Captain.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I'm on my way.
PICARD: Assemble an away team, Number One. Include whoever the Doctor requires to assist.
PULASKI: Excuse me sir, but there may be hundreds on the Constantinople that require emergency attention. I should be there to supervise.
PICARD: All right, who will replace you?
PULASKI: Lieutenant Selar. She has my complete confidence.
RIKER: Worf, let's go.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Phaser on stun, Mister Worf. We don't know what's going on down there. There's no need to take any chances.
WORF: Agreed, sir.
LAFORGE: Now remember, this is a near warp transport, so the effects may be a little unusual.
TROI: What do you mean?
RIKER: You'll see, Counselor. Energize.
TROI: Now wait a minute. I don't understand

[Living room]
RIKER: You do now.
TROI: This might sound crazy, but for a moment I thought I was stuck in that wall.
WORF: For a moment, you were.
DATA: Data to Enterprise.
PICARD: I read you, Commander. Go ahead.
DATA: We are inside Graves' home.

[Bridge]
DATA: All is quiet so far. Of course, no one knew we were coming.
PICARD: Use caution, but protect Graves' health

[Ready room]
RIKER: Why didn't you contact Doctor Selar when you saw that he was beginning to go?
DATA: To do so would have been pointless. All things must pass. May I go now, sir?
PICARD: Yes, of course.
DATA: We will try to honor him in the manner in which he specified, will we not, sir?
PICARD: I said we would, Data.
DATA: I am glad, sir. It was his dying wish.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: He was a fine man. A man of rare gifts. and great accomplishments. He will be sorely missed. Does anyone else have anything to say?
DATA: I believe I have a few words to say, sir. Just look at that face. The face of a thinker. A warrior. A man for all seasons. Yes, Ira Graves was all that and more. But he was not perfect. Perhaps his greatest fault was that he was too selfless. He cared too much for his fellow man, with nary a thought for himself. A man of limitless accomplishments, and unbridled modesty. I can safely say that to know him was to love him. And to love him was to know him. Those who knew him, loved him, while those who did not know him, loved him from afar.
PICARD: Data.
DATA: I'm almost finished, sir.
PICARD: You are finished, Data.
PICARD: We now commit the body of Ira Graves to the timeless depths of space.

[Ready room]
DATA: I am sorry, sir. Perhaps it was my admiration for Grandpa that got the best of me.
PICARD: Grandpa?
DATA: That is the way I think of him, sir. My only living relative, no longer living.
PICARD: Data.
DATA: I was only trying to carry out his wishes. I just wanted to keep my promise to him.
PICARD: I know that, Data. Look, I realize you've been studying the human equation with great alacrity, but perhaps you've been working at it too much. Don't try so hard to be human. Just be yourself. All right?
DATA: Yes, sir. I will work on staying within myself.
PICARD: Grand. You're dismissed, Mister Data.
DATA: Thank you, sir. Captain's personal log. Although Commander Data has assured me that his odd behavior will return to normal, I can't help thinking that something went wrong during his visit to Gravesworld.

[Corridor]
TROI: I'm still concerned, Captain. I've never seen him act like this.
PICARD: Could it be that grandfather analogy that Graves planted in his head?. Data is an orphan in a manner of speaking. Is it possible that the loss of Graves might have affected him? Touched him on some emotional level we didn't know he possessed?
TROI: I hope you're right. I hope that's all it is.

[Ready room]
DATA: If you wish to apologize, I am prepared to listen.
PICARD: You expect me to apologize to you?
DATA: You were a bit rude to me. Might make you feel better if you said you were sorry.
PICARD: Data, something has obviously gone wrong with your circuitry.
DATA: That is ridiculous. I am as healthy as a Rigelian ox.
PICARD: I wish I could believe that. I would accompany you to to Sickbay, but I doubt if that would do us any good.
DATA: Sickbay? Are you ill, Captain?
PICARD: I'm getting there. I'm going to have Engineering run a full physical on you.
DATA: I am sure that will not be necessary, Captain. I am fully capable of running a circuit check on myself. It will immediately determine any abnormalities.
PICARD: Do it. That's an order.
DATA: Just as I expected. I am fine. Could not be better.
PICARD: For the first time since I've known you, I don't believe you.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Try and hold still, will you, Data?
PICARD: Data, will you wait for me in the corridor.
DATA: Why should I? This concerns me more than it does any of you.
PICARD: You will wait for me in the corridor. His insubordination is growing by leaps and bounds. I could use diskipline, but I'd rather try and help him.
LAFORGE: I wish I knew what to suggest. I'm damned if I can find a thing wrong with him.
TROI: Perhaps we're looking in the wrong place.
PICARD: Meaning?
TROI: Well, if Data's physical health is unimpaired, perhaps his mental health needs to be addressed.
LAFORGE: What, are you saying that Data is losing his mind?
TROI: With your permission, Captain, there is one way to find out.

[Data's quarters]
TROI: Now, Data, you remember the psychotronic stability examination. We all had to take it before graduating from the Academy.
DATA: It was a waste of time then and it is a waste of time now.
TROI: It will just gage your psychological reactions to the images it projects. Watch the screen and let your mind go blank. The device will do the rest.

[Ready room]
PICARD: It's safe to say that you're his best friend. Is it possible to speculate about what's happening to him?
LAFORGE: Well, sir, it's just a guess, but, sometimes he wants to be human so badly he can taste it. I think he just tends to get confused when his human qualities surface.
PICARD: Go on.
LAFORGE: Witnessing Graves' death may have been some sort of catalyst for the way he
TROI: I have the results of the tests. I ran them several times to be sure.
PICARD: To be sure of what?
TROI: There are two disparate personalities within Lieutenant Commander Data. Each distinctly different. A dominant and a recessive.
PICARD: But he's an android. Is that possible!
TROI: It must be. The dominant personality is unstable. Brilliant but vain, sensitive yet paranoid. And I believe it is prone to irrationality.
PICARD: Of course.
TROI: Sir?
PICARD: Nothing. Go on.
TROI: It seems to have an especially strong hatred of you, Captain, or to a lesser degree, any authority figure. And worst part is, it's growing.
PICARD: How do you mean?
TROI: The alien persona is getting stronger and gobbling up what is left of the weaker ego, the Data we know. If something isn't done to stop it immediately, we will lose our Data forever. Captain's personal log. We have arrived at Starbase Six where Miss Brianon will await transport back to Earth. I am greatly troubled by the unusual behavior of Commander Data and fear that somehow it is directly related to the experiments of Ira Graves.

[Ready room]
WORF: Commander Data has left Ten forward. Should I follow?
PICARD: Negative. I'll handle this myself. He was an expert in cybernetics?
TROI: Yes.
PICARD: Our memorial service may have been premature. What an achievement. 'So long as men can breathe or eyes can see, so long lives this, and this gives life to thee.'
TROI: He was working on bridging the gap between man and machine.
PICARD: It seems he built that bridge. I may be forced to tear it down.

[Engineering]
DATA: I can hear you coming, Captain. My ears are better than the average dog's, you know.
PICARD: I know who you are and what you've done.
DATA: Of course you do.
PICARD: I came here to talk to Data.
DATA: I cannot allow that.
PICARD: I understand your desperation. The shock of learning you were dying. But you had no right to do what you have done.
DATA: I had every right, Captain. I am man, he is machine. There is no question who must live and what must die.
PICARD: What of Data?
DATA: Data? Before me, he was nothing. Just a walking tin can with circuits for intestines. Pathetic. Without heart, a man is meaningless. I would not come up here if I were you, Captain. I might not like it.
DATA: You are most fortunate, my dear Captain, that I am not a violent man.
PICARD: Not a violent man?
DATA: This is not my fault. They told me I was not supposed to be up here. They should not have done that.
PICARD: Graves, listen to me. No one can deny the significance of your transformation. But I don't believe that this was part of your plan. Encountering Data was mere coincidence. One that offered you more than you could have dreamed. But something has gone wrong. Look here. Graves, this experiment must be terminated.
DATA: This is idiotic.
PICARD: Picard to Sickbay.
PULASKI: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: How is Miss Brianon?
PULASKI: Her left hand is fractured in two places. We've just begun treatment.
PICARD: I'm afraid there are two more injuries in Engineering.
PULASKI: I'm on my way.
PICARD: Who's next?
DATA: These were all accidents. I did not intend
PICARD: How many more accidents? You must leave this body.
DATA: No, I live here now.
PICARD: Graves, every man has his time. Every man, without exception. But you've cheated. You have extended your life at the expense of another. Graves, give Data back. Give him back.
DATA: Data is dead.
PICARD: No. He must not be lost. He's not simply an android. He's a life form, entirely unique.
DATA: Data is not human! He is
PICARD: He is different, yes. But that does not make him expendable, or any less significant. No being is so important that he can usurp the rights of another. Now set him free!
DATA: No!
DATA: How many? How many more accidents?
PICARD: Data! Where is he?
PULASKI: Just take it easy.
PICARD: I can't afford to take it easy, Doctor. Tell me, where is Lieutenant Commander Data?

[Bridge]
WESLEY: And you don't remember anything?
DATA: Not a thing.
WESLEY: To know him is to love him is to know him?
DATA: Perhaps it is best that I do not remember. I trust I did nothing unbecoming to a Starfleet officer?
RIKER: Does wrestling with a Klingon targ ring a bell?
PICARD: Mister Crusher, take us out of orbit.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
DATA: Did I win?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Reduce to half impulse.
WESLEY: Reducing velocity to one half impulse.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come. Ah, Number One. Look at this. Ever since we left the Lima Sierra system, I have been puzzling over how the third planet could maintain such an orbit, when it is theoretically impossible. But consider this.
RIKER: There's no degeneration.
PICARD: Exactly.
RIKER: Why?
PICARD: Why? I haven't a clue.
RIKER: Perhaps this facsimile lacks the proper mass.
PICARD: Perhaps, but if this is an accurate representation, it could explain what happened in that system.
RIKER: Perhaps.
PICARD: Well, not a matter of great moment, just a knot I had to untie. So, what do you want to see me about?
RIKER: We've arrived at Ramatis Three.
PICARD: Oh well, time to leave.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Standard orbit, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Standard orbit.
PICARD: Mister Data, you have the Bridge.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Transporter room five. I'm still a little uncomfortable with your leading this away team.
PICARD: This is not an away team, Commander. I consider this a ceremonial function. For me not to go could be construed as lack of interest.
RIKER: You will be careful, sir
PICARD: Oh, cluck, cluck, Number One.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: You're being a mother hen. I appreciate your concern. Actually I'm looking forward to meeting this mediator.
RIKER: We came a long way to get him.
PICARD: They wanted the best. That, according to all reports, is Riva.

[Corridor]
PICARD: If he can put an end to all the years of blood-letting on those planets, I think we should do everything in our power to assist him.
RIKER: Our job is not to police the galaxy.
PICARD: Isn't that my speech, Number One? No, of course you're right. We must not get involved.

[Transporter room]
WORF: Coordinates have been input, sir.
TROI: Have your sensors indicated any problem down there, Lieutenant?
WORF: None.
TROI: But you're feeling a certain confusion about this mission.
WORF: No.
TROI: Yes. I've never known you to have such strong emotions, except when you're expecting to do battle.
WORF: I am not expecting battle.
RIKER: Then what is bothering you?
WORF: Riva.
PICARD: Ah. Riva negotiated several treaties between the Klingons and the Federation.
WORF: Before him, there was no Klingon word for peacemaker.
RIKER: Then I can understand why you're feeling uneasy.
PICARD: Now look, this is a simple ceremonial greeting, nothing more. All right?
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Energize.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Captain, this is the Enterprise.

[Room]
PICARD: We've arrived safely, Number One, but so far we've been ignored. I'll keep you informed.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I would appreciate it.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: We're approaching Solais Five.
RIKER: Half impulse.
WESLEY: Slowing to one half impulse.

[Guest quarters]
RIKER: Counselor Troi, please have Riva report to the Bridge.
TROI: They need you on the Bridge, now.

[Engineering]
RIKER: This is the away team.
LAFORGE: Yes, Commander.
RIKER: We are going to need your help.
LAFORGE: I thought you might.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Did you read that, Geordi?
LAFORGE: I did. That should be no problem.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: How did this happen?
RIKER: A total surprise. Apparently a member of one of the factions didn't like the idea of peace.
PICARD: I don't understand what you're trying to say. Counselor?
TROI: Riva, go slowly. Slowly.
PICARD: Can you write it out? I am so sorry that your friends were killed. I'm sorry, I don't know what you are trying to tell me. We have to find some way to communicate with him. Data, he knows some kind of gestural language. Find our which one and learn it.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Counselor, take him to Sickbay. Maybe Pulaski can help. Listen to me. You are not alone. Do you understand? We are all in this together now.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We are monitoring increased military activity on Solais Five. I fear that without Riva, we will be unable to keep the Solari from destroying themselves.

[Bridge]
RIKER: How's it going?
DATA: I have eliminated all but five distinct forms of signing. I will learn them all. Computer, show me gestural language designation M nine.
WORF: Interesting. A technique of communication which is both silent and covert. It could be very useful.
DATA: The use of gestures and hand signals pre dates the spoken word in most cultures. The major exception being the Leyrons of Malkus Nine who actually developed a written language first. Computer, continue presentation. Increase. Increase. Increase. Increase.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: How's our mediator.
TROI: The same. He's withdrawn. He's very frightened. All of his life he's been in control, and now for the first time he doesn't have any answers. The doctor gave him a complete medical examination.
PULASKI: His condition is hereditary. His brain cannot receive auditory information. So all the prosthetics and surgical techniques I can use wouldn't work.
TROI: I don't know what we can do to help him.
PULASKI: I can't do anything.
TROI: It's up to him, and he's stopped cooperating.
PICARD: Counselor, couldn't you?
TROI: Confidence is faith in oneself. It can't easily be given by another.
PICARD: You're right, of course. Come.
DATA: Captain, I have reviewed and stored five distinct signing languages. Here is an example of the first. This is blue. This is a blue ocean. This is a blue ocean at sunset. This is two people walking along the beach by a blue ocean at sunset. This is two happy people in love walking along the beach by a blue ocean at sunset. This is two people
PICARD: Enough. Let's talk to Riva.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Riva, Commander Data has learned your sign language. Talk to us.
DATA: It was my fault. I am responsible for their deaths. In my arrogance I thought no one could possibly harm the great Riva. I am such a fool.
PICARD: You are not to blame. What happened appears to have been the work of one desperate man. It may not reflect the feelings of the others.
DATA: They were more than my interpreters. They were also my friends. They were a part of me. I did not realize how much a part until now.
PICARD: We have been contacted by the factions on Solais. They want to renew negotiations.
DATA: I cannot. I will not.
TROI: Don't turn away. You have a chance to make some good come out of this tragedy. This could be the catalyst which binds them together.
DATA: Someone else will have to speak with them, not me. Not after what I allowed to happen/ How could I?
PICARD: But Data can understand you. Use him. Let him explain your words.
DATA: When Data speaks for me, can you hear my anguish, my despair? Data is a fine machine, but he cannot take the place of my chorus. It took years to develop a communication. That cannot be easily replaced.
TROI: The Solari need you.
DATA: I cannot help them. Captain, please take me back to Ramatis.
PICARD: That is regrettable. A lot more people are going to die.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: It's possible to installl optical devices which look like normal eyes, and would still give you about the same visual range as the visor.
LAFORGE: Done? You say almost. How much reduction?
PULASKI: Twenty percent. There is another option. I can attempt to regenerate your optic nerve, and, with the help of the replicator, fashion normal eyes. You would see like everyone else.
LAFORGE: Wait a minute. I was told that was impossible.
PULASKI: I've done it twice, in situations somewhat similar to yours. Geordi, it would eliminate the constant pain you are under. Why are you hesitating?
LAFORGE: Well, when I came to see you, it was to talk about modifying this. And now you're saying it could be possible for me to have normal vision?
PULASKI: Yes.
LAFORGE: I don't know. I'd be giving up a lot.
PULASKI: There's something else you must know. This is a one shot. If you decide to change your mind, there's no going back. And there are risks. I can offer choices, not guarantees.
LAFORGE: Well, this is a lot to think about. I'll get back to you, Doctor. Thank you.

[Guest quarters]
TROI: The Captain is going to take you to Ramatis. But first, he's given me permission to attempt to settle the conflict down on Solais. Yes. We've come so far, and paid such a terrible price, I must try. Help me.
DATA: You would be better off without my help.
TROI: I have never attempted anything like this before. When dealing with two factions so diametrically opposed, so entrenched in their positions, where do you start?
DATA: You want to know if I had some special technique?
TROI: I want to know anything you can tell me that could help.
DATA: There is no trick. I had no magic.
TROI: What about your Chorus?
DATA: Yes, my Chorus was special. They allowed me to combine different perceptions.
TROI: So there was a trick.
DATA: Not really. My technique was to look for some thing, no matter how small, that was common to both groups, and then to begin a process where one person or one group expresses themselves to each other.
TROI: That's very hard to accomplish.
DATA: Yes, but what is even more difficult is to get each side to listen, really listen to each other, and to understand.
TROI: This isn't going to be easy for me.
DATA: You are very good with people.
TROI: But what I do is different.
DATA: The real secret is turning disadvantage to advantage.
TROI: Why can't you do that? Why can't you turn your disadvantage into an advantage?
DATA: That is an interesting. It would give them something in common. I do not understand, Counselor. To what is he referring?
DATA: Thank you. Thank me? Ah!
PICARD: I will have the Captain contact then down on the planet and tell them to prepare for your return.

[Transporter room]
WORF: There are no life signs in the immediate area.
RIKER: All right, stay sharp. We may have to get out of there in a hurry. Set phasers on stun. Energize.

[Hilltop]
WORF: The area is clear, Commander.
DATA: Put the table over there.
RIKER: Engineering, this is Commander Riker.
LAFORGE: Go ahead, sir.
RIKER: You can beam the table and torches down now.
DATA: Light the torches to let them know that I am back.
RIKER: It may be quite a while before the emissaries arrive. They'll be more cautious after the last incident.
DATA: You may leave whenever you choose. I will send out a message when I am ready to go.
RIKER: Deanna, I don't understand what he's going to do. How can he mediate without his interpreters? He won't even be able to talk to them.
TROI: Riva is going to teach them sign language.
DATA: Yes, it is turning a disadvantage into an advantage. Learning sign will be a part of their process of learning how to live together in peace.
TROI: While they are learning how to communicate with Riva, they'll be learning how to communicate with each other.
DATA: And that is the first and most important aspect of any relationship. Counselor, it took me only moments to learn sign language. It will take them months.
TROI: Time well spent.
DATA: These people have been fighting all of their lives. They know only hatred, suspicion, and fear. Even with my Chorus, I could not have changed their attitudes in a day. We have a chance. They want the talks to be successful.
RIKER: I'm still not comfortable leaving you here alone.
DATA: Thank you for your concern. I will be fine. And thank you, for everything.
RIKER: Enterprise, four to beam up. Good luck. First Officer's log, Stardate 42479.3. We leave the Solais system confident that Riva will help the Solari achieve a lasting peace.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Coordinates set, Commander.
RIKER: Take us out of orbit.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
TROI: You wanted to see me?
PICARD: Yes. You read me well enough to sense how I feel about you and what you do on this ship. But I just wanted to say the words. Thank you. Well done.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
TROI: You wanted to see me, Captain?
PICARD: Yes, Counselor. Come, sit down. Counselor, you've had the opportunity to observe Doctor Pulaski for some time now. How would you evaluate her as a Chief Medical Officer?
TROI: I've never met a more dedicated physician. I would say she has a passion for her work.
PICARD: Yes, of course. I entirely agree. Is it possible that such consuming dedication could interfere with her judgment?
TROI: I feel your concern, Captain, but I don't share it. Perhaps because I've had the opportunity to spend more time with her and get to know her better.
PICARD: Yes, perhaps you're right.
DATA: Captain, we are picking up a faint distress signal on an open subspace frequency. It appears to be coming from an adjacent sector.
PICARD: Respond on the same frequency.

[Bridge]
DATA: I have verified receipt of the access codes for the Lantree, Captain.
PICARD: Grand. Commence operations.
RIKER: Our first move will be shut down the engines.
LAFORGE: Standing by, Commander.
DATA: The Lantree computer reports access codes received and accepted, sir.
PULASKI: Sickbay on alert, Captain.
LAFORGE: Interlock is engaged. The Lantree is responding, sir.
DATA: We have override control of her Bridge, Captain. All systems answering.
PICARD: All right, let's have a look.
LAFORGE: Lantree Bridge monitor engaging.
PICARD: Are you reading anything, Doctor?
PULASKI: Still no signs of life, Captain.
PICARD: Magnify. That must be Captain Telaka on the left. Let's look at him. Closer. My God.
RIKER: Looks like they had a battle with time.
WORF: And lost.
PULASKI: Heart, lungs, liver, everything.
PICARD: What is it?
PULASKI: They died of natural causes.
PICARD: Natural causes? What in nature could cause that?
PULASKI: For the record, Captain, they died of old age.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: We've downloaded the Lantree's log, sir.
PICARD: Play back the Captain's last entry.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 42493.1. There are only six of us left. We've set course for the nearest Federation outpost, but I am afraid it's too late. All attempts to analyze what is happening have failed. In the last few hours I've watched friends grow old and die, and I'm seeing it happen to me. Captain L.I. Telaka, USS Lantree.
RIKER: Captain Telaka was my age, sir.
PICARD: Doctor?
PULASKI: Every member of the Lantree crew had a complete examination at the beginning of this duty cycle eight weeks ago. They were in perfect health.
TROI: Nothing else since?
PULASKI: A single medical entry noting that the First Officer was treated for Thelusian flu five days ago.
PICARD: Thelusian flu?
PULASKI: It's an exotic but harmless rhinal virus. It couldn't have caused this.
RIKER: The last port of call of the Lantree was the Darwin Genetic Research Station on Gagarin Four three days ago.
PULASKI: Whatever happened, it could be something that the Lantree crew already had or it could have come from Gagarin. At the very least, the people from Darwin Station deserve a warning. We may have to consider a quarantine.
PICARD: You'll agree that we should quarantine the Lantree.
PULASKI: Absolutely.
RIKER: Lieutenant, initiate the quarantine transmitters on the Lantree and activate her marker beacons. We'll need to find her again.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: I recommend against contact, Captain.
PICARD: Number One?
RIKER: I have to agree, sir. I wish there was something we could do, but the risk is too great.
PICARD: Doctor?
PULASKI: If the children are free of disease, as Doctor Kingsley said, they should be evacuated. I would like to bring one of them aboard within a force field for a complete examination.
PICARD: Counselor, do you sense anything?
TROI: Doctor Kingsley sincerely believes the children are not a threat, but she's not telling us the whole truth. I recommend caution.
PICARD: We have only Doctor Kingsley's assurance that these children are not infected, whereas we have seen the results of this disease first hand. In a case like this, I think we should err on the side of caution.
PULASKI: All right. We could beam up one child in styrolite in suspended animation. That way I could scan for possible infection without any danger to ourselves or to the child.
RIKER: But we don't know what we're looking for.
PULASKI: Exactly. And we won't know until we begin gathering data. Captain, that's worth some risk.
PICARD: There's always risk, Doctor. Proceed with the examination, but I shall require positive proof that these children are harmless before I place any of my crew in jeopardy.

[Science lab]
LAFORGE: The forcefield's ready, Captain.
PICARD: Activate it.
PICARD: Transporter?
O'BRIEN: This is Chief O'Brien, sir. Almost ready.
PICARD: Is there a problem?

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: It's the styrolite. I'm altering the delta-T so the styrolite coding materializes two micro-seconds ahead of the child.

[Science lab]
O'BRIEN: It has to be right the first time.
PICARD: Well take all the time you need.
O'BRIEN: Entering corrections now, sir.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Ready, Captain.

[Corridor]
PULASKI: Deanna, do you have a minute? You've known the Captain for some time. I think I need some advice. I don't seem to be dealing with him very well.
TROI: Why do you say that?
PULASKI: Well, my arguments don't seem to have any affect on him. We just end up quoting regulations to each other. He has such a consuming dedication to his ship, he doesn't seem able to step back to see the human side of the equation.
PULASKI: What's the matter?
TROI: Kate, I don't think he'd be where he is if he couldn't see the human side of the equation. Perhaps the two of you aren't all that different.
PULASKI: What do you mean?
TROI: Let's just say you both have well established personalities.

[Engineering]
PULASKI: Geordi, I need your help.
LAFORGE: What is it, Doctor.
PULASKI: I need to prove the children are harmless. I can only do that in a fail-safe environment.
LAFORGE: The problem is there's no area on the ship that can be sealed off with absolute certainty, even with force fields.
PULASKI: Sickbay has an isolated system.
LAFORGE: But it's not possible to totally cut it off from the rest of the ship. The only truly independent environment would be something like a shuttlecraft.
PULASKI: A shuttlecraft. Why didn't you say so?

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PULASKI: Captain, I'd like permission to put the boy in a shuttlecraft. I can study him there without risk to anyone else.
PICARD: What about you?
PULASKI: I'm prepared to take that risk. Someone has to breathe the same air he breathes, to touch him. I'm volunteering to make that test myself.
PICARD: Doctor, you have a responsibility to this ship which goes
PULASKI: I also have a responsibility to humanity.
PICARD: Starfleet guidelines about contact with quarantined
PULASKI: You don't have to quote the rule book. You were saying?
PICARD: Request approved.
PULASKI: Captain, you said if I. Approved?
PICARD: I recognize that you're trying to satisfy my conditions.
PULASKI: Thank you.

[Shuttlecraft]
DATA: You're certain the Captain approved this, Doctor?
PULASKI: You'll take us a few hundred meters away from the Enterprise and hold position.
DATA: Begin shuttlecraft launch sequence.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Good luck, Doctor.

[Shuttlecraft]
DATA: We are in position, Doctor.
PULASKI: It's the only way to prove they're harmless.
DATA: And if they are not?
PULASKI: I hate to keep reminding you, but you are a machine. You'll be perfectly safe.
DATA: That is by no means certain, Doctor, but I was referring to you.
PULASKI: Medical research is sometimes a risky business. It's all part of being human. Shall we proceed?
DATA: Ready to transport.

[Transporter room]
DATA: You have the coordinates, Chief O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: Shuttlecraft, maintain your position and stand by.
DATA: Standing by.

[Science lab]
O'BRIEN: Transporter control, what's our status?

[Shuttlecraft]
PULASKI: Oh, yes, I do. I understand you perfectly.
DATA: How could you, Doctor? He has not said anything.
PULASKI: Oh yes, he has. Troi's right. He's telepathic.

[Shuttlecraft]
DATA: All systems are functioning within normal specifications, Doctor.
PULASKI: The manufacturer will be pleased to hear it. I appreciate your help, but your bedside manner needs work.
DATA: Bedside manner?
DATA: Doctor?
PICARD: Doctor, I don't understand. What has happened?
PULASKI: There was no warning.
PICARD: Explain.
PULASKI: Arthritic inflammation. It's the initial symptom of the disease.
PICARD: What can we do?
PULASKI: Return the boy to Darwin Station. Apparently the children are carriers.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Chief O'Brien, are you ready?
O'BRIEN: I have the original coordinates of the Darwin isolation lab, Captain.
PICARD: Quickly, please.
O'BRIEN: Shuttle One, hold your position.

[Shuttlecraft]
DATA: Holding.
O'BRIEN: Stand by to transport.
PULASKI: It wasn't your fault.
PICARD: Tell us what you need, Doctor.
PULASKI: There's nothing you can do, Captain. I'm not going to make myself an exception to the Darwin quarantine. Shuttle One out.
DATA: What is your condition, Doctor?
PULASKI: Not exactly up to factory specs. I'm sorry. The pain is tolerable, thank you.
DATA: Shall I set course for Darwin Station?
PULASKI: We're already under quarantined. What do we have to lose?

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: We can no longer consider the Darwin Station crisis our most immediate concern, although Doctor Pulaski's condition is inseparably linked with that emergency. Her safe return and that of Commander Data must take priority, please.
TROI: Shouldn't Doctor Pulaski be involved in this?
RIKER: From what we've seen on the Lantree, Doctor Pulaski may not have time to help herself.
TROI: Well I suggest we beam them both back onto the ship. Commander Data is most likely immune and surely the biofilter will
O'BRIEN: The transporter's biofilter won't protect us. The boy was transported twice already and still infected Doctor Pulaski.
LAFORGE: Couldn't we adjust the biofilter? We could alter the filter to screen out whatever it is that's causing the disease.
PICARD: But we don't know what's causing the disease. We can't protect ourselves against the unknown. What we need is some kind of filter that doesn't depend on known biological factors.
O'BRIEN: We might try the trace.
RIKER: The transporter trace?
O'BRIEN: As you know, the transporter keeps a record of all transmissions, a pattern if you will. Usually it's just stored for security purposes, but if we use the transporter trace to control the reconstitution process
LAFORGE: I don't think it's ever been tried quite that way before, but theoretically it is possible.
O'BRIEN: I'd have to make extensive modifications.
PICARD: Then do it. It seems we have no alternative.
RIKER: Where will we get the trace pattern? The Doctor's never used our transporter.
PICARD: Never?
RIKER: No. She's a woman of very strongly held opinions, sir. What was her previous assignment?
TROI: Her last ship was the Repulse.
PICARD: Bridge, Picard. Contact the USS Repulse using subspace captain's priority channel.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Have you made any progress, Doctor?
PULASKI: I'm afraid so, Captain. The children don't carry the disease, they are the cause.
PICARD: What do you mean?
PULASKI: Their advanced immune system has created an antibody that changes normal DNA. The altered genes are the ones that control aging.
PICARD: Then why did it attack you more quickly than Doctor Kingsley?
PULASKI: The enclosed environment of the shuttlecraft concentrated my exposure. The Lantree's First Officer carried the antibody onto his ship. It had the same effect on his crew.
PICARD: Right, what's the next step?
PULASKI: The children will survive, but the rest of us are just about out of time.
PICARD: Doctor, I want you back aboard this ship. We'll beam you up in suspended animation like the boy. That will give us more time.
PULASKI: Captain, I appreciate what you're trying to do, but I got into this by leaping before I looked, and I won't allow you to make the same mistake. Chief Medical Officer's log. This will be my final report to the Enterprise. Just as changes in evolution are known to be caused by changes in the environment, we now know the process also works in reverse. An attempt to control human evolution has resulted in a new species that's lethal to its predecessors. The children will be condemned to live out their lives in isolation. Quarantine of the Darwin Station must be maintained for ever.

[Darwin Station lab]
DATA: I am sorry I could not be more helpful, Doctor Pulaski.
PULASKI: You did everything you could, Commander. As androids go, you're in a class by yourself.
DATA: Doctor
PULASKI: Please, give my best to the Captain.
DATA: Enterprise. Commander Data ready to beam aboard.

[Bridge]
TROI: Captain, Kate knew what she was doing.
PICARD: I wish I could be certain that we'd tried everything.
WORF: Commander Data is ready to come aboard, sir.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.

[Doctor's office]
RIKER: A blood test, a tissue sample, anything that would have a sample of Doctor Pulaski's original DNA.
DATA: No, sir. Her records were shipped by way of Starfleet headquarters. They have not caught up with us yet.
RIKER: This is ridiculous. A cell, a single cell. Let's check her quarters.

[Pulaski's quarters]
RIKER: Anything. A fingernail, a hair.
DATA: Hair brush.
DATA: It has a follicle, sir. Live cells.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Darwin Station, this is the Enterprise.
PULASKI: Go ahead, Captain. I'm here.
PICARD: Doctor, we may have a solution. We have a sample of your normal DNA to use as a filter in the transporter. We think that we can beam you aboard while filtering out any of the genetic problems caused by the disease.
PULASKI: Interesting theory, Captain. If it works, we could use the same technique to save Doctor Kingsley and her colleagues.
PICARD: I think you should know, this has never been attempted before.
PULASKI: Well, I'll tell you one thing. If I live through this, I'll have a much better understanding of geriatrics.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: All set, Chief?
O'BRIEN: Almost ready, sir. There's just one thing.
PICARD: Yes?
O'BRIEN: This modification's one way only. If it doesn't work we won't be able to reverse transport the Doctor back to the planet.
PICARD: Then I'll operate the transporter controls myself. If she's going to be consigned to oblivion, then
O'BRIEN: Thank you, sir. I'll be monitoring the medical scans. But you'll be able to tell if it's worked by watching the stack.
PICARD: Doctor Pulaski, are you ready?
PULASKI: I suppose I am, Captain.
PICARD: Here we go.
PICARD: It's not working.
O'BRIEN: Captain, wait.
DATA: Doctor.
LAFORGE: Good to see you, Doctor.
PICARD: Welcome back, Doctor. Come.

[Corridor]
PULASKI: Captain, if this hadn't worked?
PICARD: If this hadn't worked, it would have been necessary to beam your energy into empty space.
PULASKI: And spread my atoms spread across the galaxy.
PICARD: Yes. I'm sorry.
PULASKI: No, no, don't be sorry. Every time I get into the damn thing, I'm convinced that's what's going to happen. Chief Medical Officer's log, supplemental. The adults of Darwin Station have been restored to normal health using our transporter. They will remain on Gagarin Four and continue their research in hopes of one day rejoining their children.

[Phaser range]
PICARD: I was wondering if you had any feelings about the Officer Exchange Program initiated by Starfleet Command.
RIKER: Just positive ones, sir. Actually, I just welcomed Ensign Mendon on board. He certainly seems eager to please.
PICARD: Well, that's a Benzite trait. It's been suggested that an officer from the Enterprise might participate in the program.
RIKER: That's probably a good idea.
PICARD: Well, there is a Klingon vessel in the area.
RIKER: I don't recall hearing of a Federation officer serving ever on a Klingon vessel.
PICARD: No, no, neither have I.
RIKER: It might prove to be beneficial.
PICARD: Having Worf on board certainly has been.
RIKER: Yes, sir. Who did you intend to send, sir?
PICARD: I thought of asking for a volunteer.
RIKER: I might be interested, sir.
PICARD: Damn. Sorry, Number One, what was that?
RIKER: I said I wouldn't mind the assignment, sir.
PICARD: Any particular reason?
RIKER: Because nobody's ever done it before.
PICARD: I'll notify Starbase of your acceptance They'll contact the Klingon vessel, make the arrangements.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 42506.5. We have departed from Starbase one seven nine and are headed for a rendezvous with the Klingon vessel, Pagh. I have informed the staff of Commander Riker's temporary assignment.

[Corridor]
WORF: I have studied and know everything about my heritage.
RIKER: Then you're just the person I need to talk to, clear something up. It's my understanding that one of the duties of the First Officer of a Klingon ship is to assassinate his Captain?
WORF: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Wouldn't that bring about chaos?
WORF: Of course not. When and if the Captain becomes weak and unable to perform, it is expected that his honorable retirement should be assisted by his First. Your Second Officer will assassinate you for the same reasons.
RIKER: The method of attrition must take a little getting used to.
WORF: The Klingon system has operated successfully for centuries.
RIKER: It is different.
WORF: Many things will be different.

[Ten Forward]
PULASKI: What is that?
RIKER: It's a Klingon delicacy. Pipius claw. This is heart of targ. This, of course, is gagh.
PULASKI: Gagh?
RIKER: Yes, serpent worms. Would you like some?
PULASKI: No, thanks. I've never heard of a Klingon starving to death on his own vessels, but you might.
RIKER: Not if I weaken first.
PULASKI: I know all about that. Their beliefs are rather brutal, but usually what kills us kills them.
RIKER: That's certainly good to know. Would you like something to drink?
PULASKI: I'm abstaining in honor of your last hour on board.
RIKER: Your sacrifice will not go unnoticed.
PICARD: Well, I'm familiar with the practice of the feast before the transfer. I've done it dozens of times. However, I usually made more palatable choices.
RIKER: These are the more palatable choices.
PICARD: Thank you. We know so little about them. There really is so much to learn. This is a great opportunity. I envy you, Mister Riker.

[Corridor]
WORF: Commander.
RIKER: An emergency transponder?
WORF: Slightly altered to transmit an omnidirectional signal and an emergency call.
RIKER: You suspect trouble?
WORF: Simply a security precaution. I want to insure your return to this ship.
RIKER: Sentiment, Lieutenant Worf?
WORF: Efficiency, Commander.
RIKER: I understand. Thank you.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Good luck, Commander.
RIKER: Thanks, O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: I wouldn't want to go.
RIKER: Why?
O'BRIEN: You're not afraid, are you.
RIKER: No, I'm not.
O'BRIEN: I would be. Ready, sir.
RIKER: Thanks. Energize.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Captain, our bearings show that we should be in contact with the Klingon vessel now.
DATA: Slow to impulse.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. Impulse speed.
WORF: Hailing frequencies are open. There is no response.
PICARD: Continue transmitting.
DATA: The Pagh is either cloaked or destroyed, sir.
PICARD: Conduct an intensive scan of the area.

[Bridge]
DATA: Considering the absence of debris, Captain, it is reasonable to assume the Klingon vessel is in the area and cloaked.
PICARD: Agreed.
DATA: And since we do not know it's intent, I recommend we go to Red Alert.
PICARD: Make it so, Lieutenant.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: We are getting an emergency signal from a command transponder. Location zero three five mark three one three. Frequency and code designate it as Commander Riker.
PICARD: Chief O'Brien, lock onto that transponder signal.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Yes, Captain. We're not yet in safe range for a transfer

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: And defensive shields are still in place.
PICARD: We may have to stretch it.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: We have to know what's going on

[Bridge]
PICARD: And Commander Riker is the only one who can tell us. Beam him directly here onto the Bridge

[Transporter room]
PICARD: On my command.
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. I'll wait till forty thousand.

[Bridge]
WORF: Forty eight thousand. Forty four thousand.
PICARD: Transporter Room, stand by.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: You control the shields.
O'BRIEN: Ready, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: Forty thousand.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter room, energize.

[Pagh Bridge]
RIKER: Hold where you are, Klag. I've relieved Captain Kargan. He was acting in an irrational manner. I'm your Captain now. Serve this ship as I have!

[Pagh Bridge]
PICARD: Pagh, we're here to assist. Do you read me?

[Transporter room]
RIKER: That might have been one of the shortest assignments in the history of Starfleet.
PICARD: Wrong, Number One. It was almost the longest. Well done.
RIKER: Thank you. Actually, I learned quite a bit.
PICARD: Apparently, not when to duck.
RIKER: When not to duck would be more accurate.
PICARD: Welcome aboard, Number One. Now, Lieutenant, conduct the Commander to Sickbay.
WORF: Aye, sir. Commander?

[Corridor]
RIKER: Your little toy worked. Thanks.
WORF: I'm glad it did.
RIKER: You come from a very brave and unique people. I'm glad you're with us on the Enterprise.
WORF: Thank you, Commander, and welcome home.

[Data's quarters]
O'BRIEN: Hold it, that's my chair. My luck is always lousy unless I start on the dealer's right.
DATA: That would seem to be superstition.
O'BRIEN: Bitter experience has taught me it's a fundamental truth.
RIKER: Okay, the game is five card stud, nothing wild. Ante up.
DATA: This game is exceedingly simple. With only fifty two cards, twenty one of which I will see, and four other players, there are a limited number of winning combinations.
LAFORGE: There's more to this than just the cards, Data.
DATA: Of course. The bets will indicate of the relative strength of each hand.
O'BRIEN: Time to pluck a pigeon.
PULASKI: Five.
LAFORGE: I'm in.
DATA: I too.
RIKER: Call.
RIKER: A seven, and a six, and the ace.
DATA: I bet ten.
O'BRIEN: See that.
RIKER: Call.
PULASKI: Fold.
LAFORGE: Yeah, me too. I'm out.
DATA: I bet five.
O'BRIEN: Same.
RIKER: Your five. And five.
O'BRIEN: Too rich for me.
RIKER: No help.
DATA: I bet ten.
RIKER: Your ten and ten.
DATA: Is that what is known as a poker face?
RIKER: Are you playing or not?
DATA: I fold.
DATA: You had nothing!
LAFORGE: He bluffed you, Data.
DATA: It makes very little sense to bet when you cannot win.
RIKER: But I did win. I was betting that you wouldn't call.
DATA: How could you tell?
PULASKI: Instinct, Data, instinct. The game is seven card high/low with a buy on the last card. And just to make it more interesting, the man with the ax takes all.

[Ten forward]
WESLEY: Data, you're supposed to rip the wrapping off.
DATA: With the application of a little care, Wes, the paper can be utilized again.
WESLEY: Data, you're missing the point.
DATA: The Dream of the Fire, by K'Ratak. Thank you, Worf.
WORF: It was in the hands of the Klingons that the novel attained its full stature.
PULASKI: I couldn't disagree more. We'll save that argument for another day.
DATA: Excuse me, please.
DATA: Is something wrong?
LAFORGE: Of course there is. You're going away.
DATA: No one regrets that necessity more than myself. You do understand my reasons?
LAFORGE: Sure, I understand. I just don't like your being forced out. It's not fair.
DATA: As Doctor Pulaski would at this juncture, no doubt, remind us, life is rarely fair.
LAFORGE: Sorry, that just doesn't make it any better.
DATA: I shall miss you, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Yeah. Me too. Take care of yourself, Data.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Data, Captain Louvois has issued a ruling. You are the property of Starfleet Command. You can not resign.
DATA: I see. From limitless options I am reduced to none, or rather one. I can only hope that Commander Maddox is more capable than it would appear.
PICARD: Data, you're not going to submit. We're going to fight this. I challenged the ruling. Captain Louvois will be compelled to hold a hearing. She may be overly attached to the letter of the law, but I suspect that she still understands its spirit. We will put to rest this question of your legal status once and for all. Now, I have been asked to represent you, but if there is some other officer with which you would feel more happy?
DATA: Captain, I have complete confidence in your ability to represent my interests.

[Ten forward]
GUINAN: Do you mean his argument was that good?
PICARD: Riker's presentation was devastating. He almost convinced me.
GUINAN: You've got the harder argument. By his own admission, Data is a machine.
PICARD: That's true.
GUINAN: You're worried about what's going to happen to him?
PICARD: I've had to send people on far more dangerous missions.
GUINAN: Then this should work out fine. Maddox could get lucky and create a whole army of Datas, all very valuable.
PICARD: Oh, yes. No doubt.
GUINAN: He's proved his value to you.
PICARD: In ways that I cannot even begin to calculate.
GUINAN: And now he's about to be ruled the property of Starfleet. That should increase his value.
PICARD: In what way?
GUINAN: Well, consider that in the history of many worlds there have always been disposable creatures. They do the dirty work. They do the work that no one else wants to do because it's too difficult, or to hazardous. And an army of Datas, all disposable, you don't have to think about their welfare, you don't think about how they feel. Whole generations of disposable people.
PICARD: You're talking about slavery.
GUINAN: I think that's a little harsh.
PICARD: I don't think that's a little harsh. I think that's the truth. But that's a truth we have obscured behind a comfortable, easy euphemism. Property. But that's not the issue at all, is it?

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Sir, there is a celebration on the Holodeck.
RIKER: I have no right to be there.
DATA: Because you failed in your task?
RIKER: No, God, no. I came that close to winning, Data.
DATA: Yes, sir.
RIKER: I almost cost you your life!
DATA: Is it not true that had you refused to prosecute, Captain Louvois would have ruled summarily against me?
RIKER: Yes.
DATA: That action injured you, and saved me. I will not forget it.
RIKER: You're a wise man, my friend.
DATA: Not yet, sir. But with your help, I am learning.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Bridge, this is Engineering.
PICARD: Yes, Lieutenant.
LAFORGE: Now that we're out of warp, I'd like to use this time to make some routine adjustments on the deuterium control conduit. We're overdue.

[Bridge]
PICARD: How much time will these adjustments require, Lieutenant?
LAFORGE: A couple of hours, sir.
RIKER: Proceed, Lieutenant La Forge. Standard orbit, Ensign.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Wes, I'm going to need an SCM model three, from ship's stores. Can you handle that?
WESLEY: Right away.
LAFORGE: All right.

[Wesley's quarters]
WESLEY: Come in.
DATA: You wanted to see me?
WESLEY: Yes. Data, the girl who came on board.
DATA: Salia of Daled Four.
WESLEY: Who is she?
DATA: Little is known. She was born on Daled Four. Her parents were from opposite sides in a civil war which has lasted for centuries. They both died shortly after her birth. A Federation ship brought her and her governess to Klavdia Three so that she could be raised in a neutral environment.
WESLEY: And now she's returning?
DATA: It is hoped she will unite the factions and bring peace.
LAFORGE: Ensign Crusher, report. Are you all right?
WESLEY: Geordi? Yeah, I'm fine. I just
LAFORGE: Wes, we're waiting for that magnet.
WESLEY: I'm on my way.

[Bridge]
TROI: What I sensed before hasn't changed.
DATA: What puzzles me, Captain, is how she is expected to bring peace to Daled Four. Its inhabitants have been fighting throughout their recorded history.
PICARD: What do we know about the cause of these wars?
DATA: Only that it is the difference between night and day.
RIKER: Data, you used a colloquialism.
DATA: Did I? What I meant, sir, is that Daled Four rotates only once per revolution. Therefore one side is constantly dark, and the other side constantly light. One might surmise that the two hemispheres have developed disparate cultures, which is a major cause of most wars.
PICARD: This child is supposed to bring them together.
RIKER: She seems too delicate for such a task.
WORF: Do not be fooled by her looks. The body is just a shell.

[Ten forward]
WESLEY: What should I say? How do I act? What do I do?
RIKER: Guinan, I need your help. Could you step over here a minute?
GUINAN: Sounds simple enough.
RIKER: Now, the first words out of your mouth are the most important. You may want to start with something like this. You are the most beautiful woman in the galaxy. But that might not work.
GUINAN: Yes. Yes, it would.
RIKER: You don't know how long I've longed to tell you that.
GUINAN: But you were afraid?
RIKER: Yes.
GUINAN: Of me?
RIKER: Of us. Of what we might become.
WESLEY: Commander?
RIKER: or that you might think that was a line.
GUINAN: Maybe I do think it's a line.
RIKER: Then you think I'm not sincere?
GUINAN: I didn't say that. There's nothing wrong with a line. It's like a knock at the door.
RIKER: Then you're inviting me in?
GUINAN: I'm not sending you away.
RIKER: That's more than I expected.
GUINAN: Is it as much as you hoped?
RIKER: To hope is to recognize the possibility. I had only dreams.
GUINAN: Dreams can be dangerous.
RIKER: Not these dreams. I dream of a galaxy where your eyes are stars, and the universe worships the night.
GUINAN: Careful. Putting me on a pedestal so high, you may not be able to reach me.
RIKER: Then I'll learn how to fly. You are the heart in my day and the soul in my night.
WESLEY: I don't think this is my style.
GUINAN: Shut up, kid. Tell me more about my eyes.

[Ready room]
PICARD: The woman, Anya, is not what she appears to be. She is an allasomorph.
WESLEY: A shape shifter?
PICARD: Yes. She's not only a governess, she's also the girl's protector. Now, I don't care to interfere in the personal relationships of those under my command, but in this case.
WESLEY: You want me to stay away from Salia?
PICARD: Yes, I do. For the good of the ship and the safety of everyone on board.
WESLEY: I will do as you ask.

[Corridor]
WORF: Forcefield off.

[Ten forward]
WESLEY: Seeing her on the transporter pad, it was like seeing pure light. I miss her. I feel empty.
GUINAN: I know that sensation. But there'll come a time when all you remember is the love.
WESLEY: I'm never going to feel this way about anyone else.
GUINAN: You're right.
WESLEY: I didn't expect you to say that.
GUINAN: There'll be others, but every time you feel love it'll will be different. Every time, it's different.
WESLEY: Knowing that doesn't make it any easier.
GUINAN: It's not supposed to.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: Sensor recordings reveal that what we witnessed was an uncontrolled and catastrophic matter-antimatter mix. The magnetic seals between the chambers collapsed and
PICARD: Wait. Wait. That's not possible.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir, it is, but a highly improbable series of events has to take place for such a result to occur.
PICARD: Explain.
LAFORGE: Okay. In the event of a breach of seal integrity there's an emergency release system which dumps the antimatter.
DATA: Apparently such a dump began, was then halted, and the containment seals were dropped. There was still sufficient antimatter present to lead to an explosion.
PICARD: And so there is no evidence that a weapon was used?
DATA: No, sir. None.
LAFORGE: However it happened, the Yamato did it to herself.
PICARD: Theorize. What could have caused such a catastrophic malfunction?
LAFORGE: I think Captain Varley may have been right. There may be a design flaw.
RIKER: In a Galaxy Class starship?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. It's the most sophisticated piece of machinery ever built. Something could have been overlooked.
PICARD: Knowing where the flaw is located, can you isolate the problem and solve it?
LAFORGE: We're already working on it, sir.
PICARD: Pull any personnel you can use.
TROI: If we have established that the Romulans were not responsible for the destruction of the Yamato, would it not be prudent to withdraw?
PICARD: If it is a design flaw, we're better to stay where we are and give Geordi time to work on it. Or what happened to the Yamato could happen to us.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, there's a reference in Captain Varley's personal log to a probe that scanned the Yamato.
DATA: Aye, sir. We have a visual record.
PICARD: Put it on main viewer.
RIKER: What the devil is that?
PICARD: Have you seen anything like that before?
DATA: No, sir. It appears to be a scanner. Possibly a transmitter.
RIKER: Transmitting what?
DATA: Unknown, sir.
PICARD: Engineering.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: La Forge.
PICARD: What progress on the matter-antimatter scan?
LAFORGE: Everything continues to check out. I'm starting an analysis on the magnetic coils.

[Bridge]
PICARD: When the Yamato was probed, where was she?
DATA: In orbit around a planet at coordinates two two seven mark three five nine, sir.
PICARD: ETA at warp factor eight?
DATA: Twelve hours sixteen minutes, sir.
WORF: Sir, that would put us substantially close to the Romulan side of the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: That can't be helped. Ensign, lay in a course. Warp factor eight.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
PICARD: We're going to assume the Yamato's mission.
RIKER: And risk a war?
PICARD: Perhaps prevent one.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
WESLEY: Sir, may I speak with you for a minute?
PICARD: Yes, of course. Well, what is it, Wesley?
WESLEY: It's about the Iconians, sir. I was told they were just a myth.
PICARD: China was thought to be only a myth until Marco Polo traveled there. No, the Iconians were certainly real. Sit down. We know that three systems within this sector had a number of cultural similarities. Similarities which could only be explained by there being a single unifying influence.
WESLEY: So they colonized those worlds?
PICARD: Probably conquered.
WESLEY: You mean they were warlike?
PICARD: Perhaps. Ancient texts did speak of 'Demons of Air and Darkness'.
WESLEY: Air and darkness?
PICARD: Legend has it that they traveled without the benefit of spaceships, merely appearing out of thin air on distant planets.
WESLEY: Sounds like magic.
PICARD: Well, we would appear magical to Stone Age people.
WESLEY: How did you find all this out?
PICARD: Archeology has been a hobby since Academy days. But why don't we talk about what really brought you here?
WESLEY: It's the Yamato, Captain. I can't stop thinking about her. All those people dead. I don't know how you and Commander Riker and Geordi, how you handle it so easily.
PICARD: Easily? Oh no, not easily. We handle it because we're trained to, as you will be. Tea, Earl Gray, hot. But if the time ever comes when the death of a single individual fails to move us
WESLEY: Didn't you order tea, sir?
PICARD: Now that should not have happened.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. As happened with our sister ship, the Enterprise is being to experience a series of system failures. So far they are random, but I fear they could be early symptoms of what happened to the Yamato.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Engineering.
LAFORGE: La Forge.
PICARD: Lieutenant

[Bridge]
PICARD: Are you making any progress toward solving our problems?
LAFORGE: Solving them, no sir, but I can eliminate one worry. It is not a design flaw.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I've been reviewing the Yamato's log, and I think maybe that alien probe had something to do with her problems.
PICARD: How?
LAFORGE: I need to see the thing.

[Bridge]
PICARD: If it was the probe, that explains the Yamato. But how do you account for the difficulties the Enterprise is experiencing?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I can't.
PICARD: Lieutenant, Are our problems likely to attain the seriousness of those on the Yamato?
LAFORGE: If you're asking for speculation, I'd say yes, sir, they are. I need time.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, time is the one thing which we do not have in abundance.
PICARD: Analysis, Mister Data.
DATA: Scanning, sir.
PICARD: Well, Mister Data?
DATA: No life-form readings, sir.
WORF: All major cities have been heavily damaged, and the pattern of destruction is that consistent with large-scale orbital bombardment.
PICARD: How long ago?
DATA: Approximately two hundred thousand years, sir.
WORF: There is an energy source in the mountains of the smaller continent.
PICARD: Magnify.
RIKER: Is that Iconia?
PICARD: Captain Varley died believing that it was.
RIKER: Did you see that?
WORF: Captain. Projectile launched from the planet's surface.
DATA: Its size and composition match the probe which scanned the Yamato, sir.
PICARD: Shields up. Prepare a tractor beam. Mister La Forge, I'm going to assist you in your research. A probe has been launched from Iconia.

[Engineering]
PICARD: I'm going to capture it.
LAFORGE: No, sir, wait! Captain! Captain!

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Coming through!

[Turbolift]
LAFORGE: Bridge!
LAFORGE: Emergency stop!
LAFORGE: Stop! Damn it!

[Bridge]
WORF: Tractor beam ready, sir.
RIKER: Geordi, are you all right?
LAFORGE: Destroy the probe, sir. Quickly!
PICARD: Worf, target phasers.
WORF: Phasers locked on target.
PICARD: Fire!
PICARD: Welcome to the Bridge, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Thank you, sir. If that thing had managed to scan us, we never would have had any chance of saving the Enterprise.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: That probe was a transmitter sending an alien computer program. The same program that is currently aboard the Enterprise trying to rewrite our software in its own image. We have two completely incompatible computer systems trying to interact.
RIKER: So that's why the ship's instruments have become so erratic.
LAFORGE: Yes.
PICARD: What can you do?
LAFORGE: Not very much. The Iconian program is so sophisticated I may never understand it.
DATA: Consider, Captain, this program has entered an alien data base, ours, and in less than seven hours has managed to not only learn our systems, but has begun to reprogram our computer.
PICARD: And so the earlier probe was responsible for the Yamato's destruction?
LAFORGE: Yes, but only in as much as it was the probe that transmitted the program.
RIKER: But we weren't scanned by that probe. How did this thing get aboard the Enterprise?
DATA: We downloaded the Yamato log, and contained in the log was the program.
PICARD: Why didn't we suffered the same fate?
LAFORGE: The program affected all of the Yamato's systems simultaneously. But with us, it was deposited within a specific section of our mainframe, so it's having to work its way out from that location. That gives us a little breathing space.
RIKER: Not much. The injury reports are increasing too, sir.
DATA: Doctor Pulaski is unwilling to trust the turbolifts. She is sending medical teams through the access tunnels.
LAFORGE: Captain, the Enterprise computer system is a lot like our own bodies with voluntary and involuntary system. Now, probably ninety percent of what happens on this ship is done automatically. Completely out of our control. We're sitting on a bomb that could go off any second, or maybe never.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Damn!
DATA: Try a bypass on the shield control interface.
LAFORGE: No go. Let me see if I can directly access the master program.
LAFORGE: Data?
DATA: Yes?
LAFORGE: What happened?
DATA: Any answer would be mere speculation. This is yet another example of how our actions have random results.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data. I noticed.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Life support has failed on decks seven and thirteen, sir. Now what if this thing manages to rewrite our entire system? It's so far beyond us that we don't have a hope of understanding it, let alone controlling it. Our own ignorance could kill us.
PICARD: We may never reach that point. A variation of what happened to the Yamato might destroy us first.
RIKER: So we just sit here and watch our ship disintegrate around us?
PICARD: The probe was launched from Iconia, probably from an automated system. There may be records near the launch site that could help us find a solution.
RIKER: I'll arrange an away team.
PICARD: And I'll lead it.
RIKER: You will lead it?
PICARD: Yes.
RIKER: Sir, we've had this conversation a hundred times.
PICARD: And we will have it again, Number One. I have been studying the Iconians since I was a cadet. I have to be the one to go. The Enterprise is yours.
RIKER: For as long as she lasts.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I've got a fix on the energy source, and for the moment this baby's working, but that could change in an instant.
PICARD: We're aware of the risks. Energize.
O'BRIEN: Transport complete.

[Iconian Control room]
WORF: Come in, Enterprise. Still no response, sir.
PICARD: Keep trying them. Communications are bound to be erratic.
WORF: I would not like to become a permanent resident of this planet.
PICARD: Nor would I, Mister Worf.
DATA: Scanners show no other life forms on the planet, sir.
PICARD: I would not expect any. Judging from the severity of bombardment, I doubt any Iconians survived. Well, Mister Data, let's see what sense we can make of this.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: This is very reminiscent of Dinasian.
DATA: Yes, sir. There are also similarities to Dewan and Iccobar.
PICARD: Is it possible that they could be branches of the same language family, beginning with Iconian?
DATA: It is, sir.
PICARD: Run a comparison using basic simple words from Dinasian, Dewan and Iccobar. See if we can reconstruct a common root language.
DATA: Accessing, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: You're jumpy.
TROI: The tension on the ship is very high.
RIKER: What's your recommendation?
TROI: Give everyone something to do, somewhere to focus their attention.
RIKER: All right. Let's consider evacuation.
TROI: To the planet?
RIKER: I know it's probably impossible with Taris sitting out there, but it would give everyone something to do. You go and organize it.
TROI: But you might need me if you have to negotiate with Taris again.
RIKER: I'll manage. Right now, they're more important.

[Iconian Control room]
DATA: Captain, your original hypothesis is correct. Iconian is the parent tongue of a language family which consists of Iccobar, Dewan and Dinasian. I have constructed a basic working understanding through a comparison of common root words such as mother, father, child, home, tribe, food, life, death, yours, ours, mine
PICARD: Data, Data, Data.
DATA: You do understand, sir, that my interpretation of the symbols will not be exact?
PICARD: Yes. Let's get on with it.
DATA: This would appear to be manual override.
DATA: That was not manual override.
PICARD: Demons of Air and Darkness, indeed.
WORF: What is that?
PICARD: A gateway?
WORF: These scenes could be holographic images.
PICARD: Be careful.
PICARD: Data! That was very foolish.
DATA: But we have established that this is not a holograph. If I step through and investigate, we could determine whether it is truly a gateway.
PICARD: No, Data. You might not be able to get back, and I can't risk losing you.
WORF: If it is not illusion, this gate would seem to take us beyond the confines of this planet.
PICARD: Is this how the Iconians traveled? Crossing light years as easily as we would cross a room? Those places could be on worlds in distant sectors of the galaxy. I think the Iconians might have out-foxed their enemies. Maybe they didn't all die in the bombardment. Some of them could have passed through this. This is what Varley feared. This is what he died for.
WORF: Sir?
PICARD: The Romulans could use this technology as a weapon.
WORF: Like the Iconians did.
DATA: No, I disagree. Captain, there is nothing in this room to indicate it was used as a military command center. Perhaps a transporter room?
WORF: But the probe was hostile.
PICARD: We can't make that assumption. The effect on the Yamato was devastating, but what if it was by accident, not by design. What I'm going to say may sound unscientific, but standing on this soil, breathing in this air, my instincts tell me that we may have got them wrong.
WORF: But we do know that the Iconians were conquerors.
PICARD: But that knowledge was passed down by the descendants of those who attacked this world. The victors invariably write the history to their own advantage. There is an unfortunate tendency in many cultures to fear what they do not understand. It's possible that their enemies, confronted with this technology, were driven to attack the Iconians out of fear.
WORF: Sir!
WORF: Was that really the Enterprise?
PICARD: I believe that it was. Gentlemen, we have a way home.
DATA: Captain, there is a vast underground power source which is controlled by this console. I believe my triggering of the gateway has caused a dramatic upsurge in power level. Ah, I have access.
PICARD: Data, can you hear me? Data, respond.
DATA: Captain.
WORF: Are you all right?
DATA: No, I am damaged.
PICARD: How bad is it?
DATA: The Iconian program is attempting to rewrite my software. Physical manifestations, blindness, motor con
WORF: Sir, without him we have no hope of deciphering the program. Captain, the Enterprise again.
PICARD: How long is the interval?
WORF: About four minutes, if the cycle holds.
PICARD: The next time the Enterprise appears, go through it with Data. Geordi will be able to learn from him. Maybe help him.
WORF: Sir, we have not yet established that that is truly a gateway.
PICARD: This will be the test.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Destroy the tricorder.
WORF: Sir, it contains everything we've discovered up to this point.
PICARD: And that is precisely why it must be destroyed. How long?
WORF: About three minutes.
PICARD: I'm running out of time. We all are. Data. Data, I have to destroy this. This control room and its technology must not be allowed to fall into Romulan hands.
DATA: I understand, sir.
PICARD: How! How do I do it? How do I destroy everything? The control room, the probes, all of it.
DATA: The power source, sir.
PICARD: I detonate it. But how? How do I do that?
DATA: The probes, sir.
PICARD: Probes? The probes. Launch? I launch the probes? But why? What's good will that do?
DATA: The doors, sir.
PICARD: Doors?
WORF: Perhaps the probes are in a launch bay.
PICARD: And if the doors are closed, then the backwash from the rockets will spill into the power grids and there'll be an overload.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: But the doors will open automatically when the launch begins. And I will override.
DATA: Correct, sir.
PICARD: Which control keys? Damn. Of course, you can't see.
DATA: Help.
PICARD: Worf, help him up.
DATA: Describe, please.
PICARD: I'm standing directly in front of the gate. To my left there is a small triangular screen.
DATA: Right one meter.
PICARD: Right. Now, to my right is a larger triangular screen. The top is solid amber. To the left, red.
DATA: Correct. Key blue, amber, amber, red.
PICARD: That's the launch sequence? How do I override the doors?
DATA: Blue, blue, blue.
PICARD: I hope that's not a stutter. I don't know how long a delay there will be between the launch and the detonation. I'll hold keying the launch sequence until you're through the gate. How long until the Enterprise reappears?
WORF: Almost time. Captain, you will be killed.
PICARD: I'll go through the gate.
WORF: But where will you end up?
PICARD: Very shortly, anywhere will be preferable to this room. Mister Worf, I am depending on you. You must get Data back to the Enterprise. He may be their only hope.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I don't know how to help him. But comparing recorded norms for Data to the current readings, it's clear that all his functions are just going crazy. If we had an expert, a Maddox, somebody, I
LAFORGE: He's gone.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Data!
RIKER: What the hell?
DATA: I am accessing.
LAFORGE: The self-correcting mechanism.
DATA: Captain? Captain?
LAFORGE: It's constantly kicking in to make minute adjustments in the positronic brain.
DATA: I am on the Enterprise. How did I get here?
RIKER: He cleared the Iconian program from his own system. How?
DATA: Iconia? I was on Iconia, now I am on the Enterprise.
RIKER: Geordi, this is critical. How?
LAFORGE: Okay, give me a second to think. There was an incompatible program running through Data's system, so the mechanism started searching for a way to keep him alive. The solution. The solution was a shutdown and a total wipe of all affected memory.
DATA: Query. What have I forgotten?
RIKER: Can you do the same thing with the Enterprise?
LAFORGE: I don't see why not, but it will have to be a complete shutdown. We turn her off, and effect a wipe of the Yamato log including every subsequent event since we downloaded it. I'll then be able to reload all the ship's programs from the protected archives in the main core.
RIKER: Geordi, if we shut down that means we're going to be bringing down the shields, and we're hanging nose to nose with a Romulan battle cruiser.
LAFORGE: Hey, Commander, whether it's Romulan phasers or our own warp engines, we're just as dead.
RIKER: Make it so.
DATA: May I help?

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: All systems functioning.
RIKER: Lock on the Captain, bring him back.
O'BRIEN: Scanning, sir. Got him.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I've lost him!
RIKER: Damn it!
O'BRIEN: Got him, sir. He's on the Romulan ship.
RIKER: How the hell?

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Bridge, Picard.
DATA: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Take us out of here. The Romulan ship is set to auto-destruct and they can't deactivate it.
RIKER: Wait, sir. Open hailing frequencies.
O'BRIEN: Open, sir.
RIKER: Commander Taris, prepare to receive a transmission from our Chief Engineer. He'll instruct you how to purge your system.

[Transporter room]
DATA: And acknowledged.
RIKER: Now, Mister Data, warp speed, please. Just in case Taris's engineer is not as efficient as our Mister La Forge.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Well, Number One, I can see why you want to keep the away missions to yourself. That's where the excitement is. So, what's been happening here? Same old routine, I suppose?

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Nasty. Nitrogen, methane, liquid neon. Surface temperature minus two hundred and ninety one degrees Celsius. Winds up to three hundred and twelve meters per second.
RIKER: Not exactly a vacation planet, eh?
LAFORGE: Not unless you like ammonia tornadoes. But I have found indications of debris in an elliptical orbit.
RIKER: Keep me informed. The sooner we find out what the Klingons think they saw, the sooner we can get the hell out of here.
LAFORGE: Sounds good to me. Nasty.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Fermat's last theorem. You're familiar with it?
RIKER: Vaguely. I spent too many math classes daydreaming about being on a starship.
PICARD: When Pierre de Fermat died they found this equation scrawled in the margin of his notes. X to the nth plus Y to the nth equals Z to the nth, where n is greater than 2, which he said had no solution in whole numbers. But he also added this phrase. Remarkable proof.
RIKER: Yeah, that's starting to come back to me. There was no proof included.
PICARD: For the eight hundred years people have been trying to solve it.
RIKER: Including you.
PICARD: I find it stimulating. Also, it puts things in perspective. In our arrogance we feel we are so advanced, and yet we cannot unravel a simple knot tied by a part-time French mathematician working alone, without a computer.
RIKER: Captain, we've detected some sort of debris in a loose orbit.
PICARD: Can you identify it?
RIKER: No, sir. I suggest we beam a section aboard for analysis.
PICARD: Make it so, Number One.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: We've locked onto something with markings on it.
PICARD: What sort of markings?
RIKER: Uncertain. Energize.
PICARD: We've got ourselves a puzzle, Number One.
RIKER: Yes sir. I think we have.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Analysis bears out that the object was definitely terrestrial in origin, dated mid twenty first century.
PICARD: No, no. No Earth ship of that time could have traveled out this far.
DATA: Nevertheless, that is what our tests indicate. And the markings we discovered are consistent with this hypothesis.
TROI: Any indication of what destroyed it, Data?
DATA: That is even more significant than the object itself, Counselor. On several of its surfaces, the molecules seem to have disintegrated
RIKER: Disintegrated? How?
DATA: Almost as if they were hit by a weapon from our time.
PICARD: Curiouser and curiouser.
WESLEY: Captain, we've detected a large structure on the planet.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: It's a building of some sort, situated on a plain of frozen methane, smack in the middle of a tremendous storm belt.
RIKER: I don't believe this. That structure is surrounded by breathable air.
PICARD: Is there any connection between that structure and the ship fragment we found?
LAFORGE: Unknown, sir.
PICARD: Suggestions?
RIKER: Just one, sir. We could go down there and have a look.
PICARD: Breathable air. No life forms that might be dangerous. I think we could risk a minimal away team, Number One.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Give me a moment, gents. We're dealing with an extremely narrow access point.
RIKER: Phasers on stun. Ready when you are.
O'BRIEN: I believe we've got it now. You have a green light, Commander.
RIKER: Energize.

[Planet surface]
DATA: Those ammonia storms are less than a kilometer away, yet they do not appear to penetrate this breathable zone.
RIKER: It's like the eye of a hurricane.
WORF: Commander, what is that?
RIKER: A door.
DATA: The structure must be here, yet we cannot see it.
RIKER: Enterprise, this is Commander Riker.

[Bridge]
RIKER: As your read out shows, this is an unusual place.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Completely calm, no sound, no movement, yet a few hundred meters away a storm is raging.
PICARD: Any information about the structure.
RIKER: Yes, sir. There is an antique revolving door. It could be an entrance.

[Bridge]
PICARD: A revolving door? Number One, proceed with caution.
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Well, this is what we came here for. Captain, we're entering.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Enterprise to away team, come in.
LAFORGE: We're receiving no signal at all from them, sir.
PICARD: Transporter room. lock on to the landing party. Beam them up.
LAFORGE: We've got nothing to lock on to, sir.

[Lobby]
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. We've entered the structure. Riker to Enterprise, come in. Come in, Enterprise.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: When they went through that antique doorway, the signal just disappeared, sir.
PICARD: What's causing the interference?
LAFORGE: Unknown.
PICARD: Are they receiving us?
LAFORGE: No. We're going to have to recalibrate all the frequencies to find one that'll work.
PICARD: Then do it.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Status report.
WESLEY: We're attempting to employ alternate encoding schemes.
LAFORGE: There could be hundreds of possible combinations.
PICARD: Is there an intelligence causing this interference?
LAFORGE: That's impossible to tell, Captain.
PICARD: It's unlike Commander Riker not to follow procedure. When he lost contact with the Enterprise, he should have returned immediately to the beam down coordinates.
TROI: I don't feel he's in any danger. In fact, if I could choose one word to assess his mood, it would be amused.
PICARD: Amused?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Progress?
WESLEY: We've accessed the range of encoding scheme alternates. The difficulty is in the frequency range. The interference is highly variable.
LAFORGE: See, the problem may be with the envelope covering the structure. There are hydrogen-carbon helix patterns throughout.
PICARD: Any transmissions are simply scattered and refracted at random. No wonder you can't get through.
LAFORGE: Exactly.
PICARD: Those are some fairly aggressive computations, Lieutenant.
LAFORGE: I'm comparing the molecular integrity of that bubble against our phasers.
PICARD: Is penetration possible?
LAFORGE: I don't know just yet. It may be an option. I'd like to run this test.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Lobby]
RIKER: Let's try that again.
RIKER: Let's find another way out of here.
DATA: Excuse me. Excuse me. Aside from the main door, is there another exit I might use?
DATA: Excuse me?
RIKER: Excuse me. Say, I was wondering if you could tell me
RIKER: There's a good deal of structural integrity, Worf.
WORF: Permission to use phaser, sir.
RIKER: Granted.
DATA: Sir, I can find no other exits. I believe we are trapped here.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We remain in orbit around Theta Eight, still out of contact with the away team.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We're almost there, Captain. We'll be able to attempt contact in a few minutes.
TROI: Captain, the situation down there has changed.
PICARD: In what way?
TROI: Commander Riker has become tense. Closed in, he's feeling trapped.

[Casino]
WORF: Phasers are totally ineffective on all surfaces.
DATA: Sir, our options appear quite limited.
RIKER: We don't have any. If we're going to get out of here, we're going to have to do it on our own. I'm going to get some answers out of that desk clerk.

[Bridge]
RIKER: There's a good deal of interference, but you are getting through.
PICARD: Number One, why haven't you left that building?

[Lobby]
RIKER: We tried, sir. It seems like we're trapped here. We're in no immediate danger

[Bridge]
RIKER: But I am concerned.
PICARD: Something about your location is interfering with communication. We are working on the problem.
RIKER: Standing by, sir.
WESLEY: Captain, these frequencies are unstable.
PICARD: Then find others.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: What is going on down there?

[Lobby]
DATA: Commander, I am picking up something most unusual in another section of this structure. It appears to be human DNA.
RIKER: Where?
DATA: Thirty one point nine meters above and to the right of us.
WORF: Perhaps those turbolifts could take us there.
WORF: Seems to be malfunctioning.

[Hotel corridor]
DATA: The reading I received is from behind this door, sir.

[Hotel room]
DATA: My reading is intensifying, sir.
RIKER: Are you getting any life signs?
DATA: None, sir.
DATA: Definitely human. Male.
RIKER: Looks like the poor devil died in his sleep.
WORF: What a terrible way to die.
DATA: He has been dead for two hundred and eighty three years, sir. The lack of any advanced decomposition is due to the sterile environment.
RIKER: Why would anyone go to all this trouble? It's just window dressing for a dead man.
WORF: Commander.
DATA: Is this significant, sir?
RIKER: American.
DATA: Fifty two stars sir. Places it between 2033 and 2079 AD. It correlates with the debris we found. Colonel S. Richey. Rest in peace, Colonel.
PICARD: Picard to Riker.
RIKER: Finally. Riker. Go ahead.

[Bridge]
RIKER: You're coming through clearly now.
PICARD: What's your situation?

[Hotel room]
RIKER: This structure was apparently made to resemble twentieth century Earth. All efforts to exit have failed.
PICARD: We haven't found a way to transport you back yet.
RIKER: I assumed as much, sir. We've also located the remains of a human. Request identity scan. Colonel Richey. American. First initial S. Roughly the same time period.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Do it.

[Hotel room]
WORF: Commander. Some curiosities.
RIKER: Books. A novel. Hotel Royale? Summarize, please.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Information retrieved, Captain
PICARD: Number One?
RIKER: Go ahead, Captain.
PICARD: We have the information you requested. Colonel Stephen Richey was the commanding officer of the explorer ship Charybdis

[Hotel room]
PICARD: Which had a terrestrial launch date of July 23rd, 2037. It was the third manned attempt to travel beyond the confines of the Earth's solar system.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Its telemetry failed. It was never heard from again. Do you believe that you've discovered the remains of Colonel Richey?
RIKER: Yes. And Captain,

[Hotel room]
RIKER: We've found something else. A novel by Todd Matthews, entitled Hotel Royale, which is the name of this structure. Data.
DATA: Captain, this is the story of a group of compulsive gamblers caught up in a web of crime, corruption and deceit.

[Bridge]
DATA: It is told by nefarious lothario Mickey D, who appears only at the climax to carry out the cold-blooded murder of the hotel bellboy.

[Hotel room]
DATA: There is also a subplot about an older man conspiring with a younger woman to murder her husband. She is squandering her inheritance.
RIKER: Captain, this novel and everything Data just described

[Bridge]
RIKER: Seems to be exactly what's happening at this hotel.
PICARD: Extraordinary.
RIKER: There's also one other thing, a diary with only

[Hotel room]
RIKER: Obviously made by Colonel Richey.
PICARD: Can you read it?
RIKER: Yes. I write this in the hope that it will someday be read by human eyes. I can only surmise at this point, but apparently our exploratory shuttle was contaminated by an alien life form which infected and killed all personnel except myself.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I awakened to find myself here in the Royale Hotel, precisely as described in the novel I found in my room.

[Hotel room]
RIKER: And for the last thirty eight years I have survived here. I have come to understand that the alien contaminators created this place for me out of some sense of guilt, presuming that the novel we had on board the shuttle about the Hotel Royale was in fact a guide to our preferred lifestyle and social habits. Obviously, they thought this was the world from which I came.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I hold no malice toward my benefactors. They could not possibly know the hell they have put me through.

[Hotel room]
RIKER: for it was such a badly written book, filled with endless clich and shallow characters. I shall welcome death when it comes.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I understand, Number One. Now we know why all that is there.

[Hotel room]
PICARD: Why can't you get out?

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Lieutenant La Forge has a thought. He believes we can phaser a slice in the field

[Hotel room]
PICARD: Surrounding the structure.
RIKER: That means the atmosphere of the planet would instantly rush in.
DATA: Our projected survival would be approximately twelve seconds.

[Observation lounge]
PULASKI: Correct. The cryogenic process would be nearly instantaneous.
RIKER: But I assume you could revive us?
PULASKI: Yes.

[Hotel room]
PULASKI: In theory.
PICARD: You must understand, Number One

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: We'll wait here for months if necessary. We're just considering options.
RIKER: If you're trying to motivate us to find

[Hotel room]
RIKER: Our own way out of here, you've succeeded, Captain.
WORF: Yes? There is a female voice asking if we want room service.
DATA: I believe she is asking if we want the room cleaned.
RIKER: Tell her no.
WORF: No.
RIKER: What did she say?
WORF: She said the kitchen will be open twenty four hours if we change our minds.
RIKER: We're going to explore the rest of the hotel. We'll keep a comm. line open. You two go down to the lobby and see if there's anything that we've missed. You talk to the guests and try to find out who or what they are. I'll check out the rest of the floors.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Yes, Number One.
RIKER: A bizarre incident just took place.
PICARD: The shoot-out between the bellboy and Mickey D.

[Lobby]
RIKER: Yes, and Mickey D just walked out the door. How did he do that?

[Ready room]
PICARD: It's on page 244.

[Lobby]
RIKER: In the novel. Right. How does it end?

[Ready room]
PICARD: A bad love affair ends in a bloody shoot-out, the hotel gets bought out, and life goes on, such as it is.

[Lobby]
RIKER: The hotel gets bought? By whom?

[Ready room]
PICARD: It isn't specific. It simply refers to foreign investors. Sale price, twelve point five million United States

[Lobby]
PICARD: They return home, leaving the assistant manager in charge.
RIKER: Captain, that's how we're getting out. We're buying this place.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Status, Number One.

[Casino]
RIKER: Rather a nice run of luck, Captain.
PICARD: Don't get out of character, Commander.
RIKER: Sir?

[Bridge]
PICARD: The foreign investors in the book are described as flamboyantly generous.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Enterprise, this is the away team. We're clear of the structure.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Three to beam up.
PICARD: Time to come home now, Number One. Transporter room, we have a fix on the away team. Beam them up.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Sir.
PICARD: Welcome back, Number One.
RIKER: Very strange experience. Puzzling. I still can't comprehend how Colonel Richey's vessel could have traveled out that far. Not on it's own, at any rate.
PICARD: Perhaps they were brought here by whoever created that make-believe world down there. It's possible they didn't know how fragile the humans aboard actually were. Only one of them survived.
RIKER: None of it makes any sense.
PICARD: Like Fermat's theorem, it's a puzzle we may never solve.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come on in.
RIKER: Excellent. Exactly what I need. Ah, Mister Worf. And the good Doctor, bearing gifts.
PULASKI: Ale from Ennan Six. Your omelets deserve no less.
DATA: This is not an efficient method for the preparation of sustenance.
RIKER: No, you're right, Data. The ship's computer would be more efficient, but it wouldn't allow for the subtlety needed for great cooking. It would give you all of the ingredients in pre-determined measurements, but wouldn't allow for flair or individuality. And Data, as we both know, flair is what marks the difference between artistry and mere competence.
PULASKI: For much of the history of mankind, the breaking of bread was a symbol of friendship and community. Something we have gotten away from in the twenty-fourth century.
PULASKI: Ah, you have a practiced hand, Commander.
RIKER: Yes, I have my father to thank.
PULASKI: Your father liked to cook?
RIKER: No, he hated it. That's why he left the chore to me.
WORF: It is my understanding that in most human families, the woman shares in the cooking.
RIKER: There were only the two of us. I never knew my mother. She died when I was very young.
LAFORGE: Where did you get these eggs?
RIKER: On our last stop.
LAFORGE: At Starbase Seventy Three?
RIKER: Yes.
LAFORGE: What kind of eggs did you say these were?
RIKER: Owon. For you, Data, something special. Don't be afraid. They won't bite you. And for you, Mister Worf.
RIKER: A cook's only as good as his ingredients.
WORF: Delicious.
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER: Go ahead.
PICARD: I would appreciate you joining me on the Bridge.
RIKER: Right away, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, we've picked up an automated signal from a Federation shuttlecraft.
RIKER: A shuttlecraft? How's that possible? I thought we were the only manned Federation vessel out here.
PICARD: Apparently not.
RIKER: What's a shuttlecraft doing out this far? Where's its mother ship?
WORF: Sensors indicate there is at least one life form on board the shuttle, sir. Humanoid.
PICARD: Perhaps someone to answer your questions, Number One. Open hailing frequencies.
WORF: Communication is not possible, sir. The shuttle is without power.
RIKER: Set course to intercept.
DATA: Estimate intercept in three minutes.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 42679.2. While en route to the Endicor system, we have encountered a Federation shuttlecraft, which seems to have appeared out of nowhere. There are no indications of where it came from or how it got out here.

[Bridge]
WORF: We are closing on shuttlecraft, sir.
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant. On screen.
RIKER: Magnify.
RIKER: Prepare to lock on tractor beam.
DATA: Target vehicle. We will be within tractor beam range in two seconds.
RIKER: Set automatic locking device. Alert Shuttlebay two.

[Shuttlebay two]
DATA: Shuttlebay two, prepare for retrieval procedure.

[Bridge]
DATA: Locking tractor beam.
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER: You're with me, Mister Worf.
PICARD: Doctor Pulaski, you are needed in Shuttlebay two.
PULASKI: I've been monitoring. I'm on my way.

[Shuttlebay two]
DATA: Engage secondary tractor beam.
RIKER: It's a Federation shuttlecraft, all right.
WORF: Yet there are no Federation bases or vessels in this area.
RIKER: NCC one seven zero one D USS Enterprise, shuttlecraft five.
RIKER: NCC one seven zero one D USS Enterprise shuttlecraft five.
WORF: How is this possible?
PULASKI: Commander, come here!
RIKER: Captain?
PICARD: Yes, Number One.
RIKER: Are you on the Bridge?
PICARD: Where else would I be?
RIKER: Well. right now I think you should be in Shuttlebay two.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Why? What is it?
RIKER: This I think you should see for yourself. Bring Commander Data.

[Shuttlebay two]
PICARD: Condition?
PULASKI: The life signs are very confusing. His heartbeat is strong, but the pulse is off.
PICARD: Is he injured?
PULASKI: There's no signs of trauma.
PICARD: Why is he unconscious? What happened to him?
PULASKI: I can't say. The readings of his brain waves are very strange.
PICARD: Strange? In what way? Non-human? Artificial?
PULASKI: No, neither. They're just out of phase.
PICARD: Can you revive him?
PULASKI: I wouldn't even attempt it till we get him into Sickbay. Come on, let's get him back.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: I have never felt anything quite like this before, so it's difficult to put into words. That person is you.
PICARD: No.
TROI: He is as much Jean-Luc Picard as the person I am standing next to. Beyond that, there is very little I can be sure of. I will have to wait until he regains consciousness before knowing more.
PICARD: Data, I need to know what's on the shuttle's logs.
DATA: Yes, sir.
DATA: Captain, both primary and reserve power has been drained from the shuttle. I am going to have to connect to the Enterprise in order to activate the shuttle's systems.
RIKER: Geordi

[Engineering]
RIKER: Report to Shuttlebay two immediately.
LAFORGE: I'm on my way.

[Shuttlebay two]
PICARD: I'll be in Sickbay. Keep me informed.
RIKER: Captain, seen this?
PICARD: Looks like the damage caused by an antimatter explosion.
RIKER: It must have been just out of range of the shuttlecraft.
PICARD: Data, I need those logs. Counselor.
RIKER: We'll be on the Bridge. Lieutenant.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Resume course and speed. Scanners at maximum range.
WORF: Maximum range.

[Shuttlebay two]
LAFORGE: There you go. You should have power now.
LAFORGE: What happened?
DATA: The polarity is not compatible.
LAFORGE: That's not possible. The connection's idiot proof.
DATA: The power requirements of the shuttle do not match those of the Enterprise. We will need a variable phase inverter, to align the power from the Enterprise to the circuits of the shuttle.
LAFORGE: Data, what do you think is going on here? I don't mean just with the shuttle, I mean everything.
DATA: I do not have enough information.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: I'm just starting a complete medical work-up. His vital signs are distorted. Some of the indicators are totally depressed, others are fluctuating wildly. I can't explain any of it. But he is alive. The restraints are for his own protection.
PICARD: Have you been able to determine why he's still unconscious?
PULASKI: No. but I have been able to rule out any head injury.
PICARD: Wake him.
PICARD: What happened?
PULASKI: Apparently, the normal stimulant had the opposite effect. I'll have to try something else.

[Shuttlebay two]
LAFORGE: All right, Data. I think I've got it now. That ought to give you something. Making this power adjustment is very tricky. By all rights, this connection should blow all the shuttle's circuits.
DATA: Perhaps you had better step out of the way.
LAFORGE: All right, but remember, you're not indestructible yourself, you know.
DATA: Increase the power.
LAFORGE: Powering up.
DATA: Adjust the invert two percent positive.
LAFORGE: Two percent positive. It's the right decision, but it's having the opposite effect.
DATA: Yes.
LAFORGE: I don't understand. I can't think of anything that would cause the circuit to change so radically.
DATA: Adjust the invert two percent negative.
LAFORGE: Okay. Two percent negative. That's it. It shouldn't work, but it does. Hey, Data. Take a look at the stardate. 42679.5. Captain.
PICARD: Go ahead.
LAFORGE: Captain, we've been able to reactivate the shuttle, and the on-board clock indicates that the shuttle is

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: Six hours in front of us. Captain, do you read me? If the shuttle's from six hours into the future, then so is the other Captain Picard.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. Part of the mystery has been solved. The reason there are two number five shuttlecrafts is because one of them is from the future. Six hours, to be exact. And so, presumably, is the facsimile of me.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Try to wake him, again.
PICARD: No!
PULASKI: It's a only a sedative.
PICARD: I know what it is. Don't sedate him. Let him be. Please. Let him to remain conscious.
PULASKI: I have never seen anything like this. Are you all right?
PICARD: I'm fine, Doctor. Save your ministrations for your patient. I want a staff meeting in five minutes. Doctor, I assume you will want to remain here.
PULASKI: Yes, I will monitor the conference from here.
PICARD: Keep me informed of any changes, no matter how small.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. I've been informed that Mister Data has recovered the logs from the duplicate shuttlecraft. I am more than apprehensive to play back a log which will not be recorded for several hours.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: Captain, we've retrieved all we are going to get from the shuttle logs, including the last visual records. Everything before that is just a jumble.
PICARD: Show me.
LAFORGE: The distortion is because we had to use a phase inverter to retrieve the logs. The quality will improve slightly.
DATA: According to the shuttle log, the Enterprise was destroyed three hours nineteen minutes from now.
LAFORGE: Captain, we have a portion of the last log entry. It's audio only.
PICARD: Captain's personal log, supplemental. I have just witnessed the total destruction of the USS Enterprise with a loss of all hands, save one. Me.
LAFORGE: All attempts to obtain further information from the shuttle have failed.
RIKER: Well, at least now we have something to go on.
LAFORGE: I just don't understand how you could have ended up in a shuttlecraft while the Enterprise was being destroyed.
WORF: Nor I. The last thing you would do is leave the Bridge of the Enterprise during an emergency.
PICARD: Yes. All right, let's proceed on the premise that what we have just seen happened, and that in less than four hours from now, the Enterprise will be destroyed, and somehow, although this is unfathomable, I and I alone escape. Discussion.
RIKER: Our destination is the Endicor system. We're due to arrive in three days. The charts show nothing of consequence, certainly nothing to threaten the Enterprise, between here and there.
WORF: Sensors indicated no other vessels, Federation or otherwise, in this area.
PICARD: Data?
DATA: I have nothing to offer. There is not enough information upon which to base a hypothesis.
LAFORGE: Well, the shuttle apparently came from somewhere up ahead, so Rather than continuing on this course, maybe we should stop here and let whatever is out there come to us.
RIKER: We may already be too late.
LAFORGE: What are you saying? That stopping, turning right or left, or even reversing our course, would be pointless?
RIKER: When we brought the shuttle and the other Picard on board, we committed to a sequence of events which may be unalterable.
PICARD: Yes, this is not a rock on the trail which once seen can easily be avoided. This is much more complex.
WORF: There is the theory of the moebius. A twist in the fabric of space where time becomes a loop from which there is no escape.
LAFORGE: So, when we reach that point, whatever happened will happen again. The Enterprise will be destroyed, the other Picard will be sent back to meet with us and we do it all over again. Sounds like someone's idea of hell to me.
RIKER: Well, I know this much. We can't avoid the future.
PICARD: Agreed. So let's continue on course. Somewhere out there something will happen. A decision will be made during the course of which, I will be separated from the Enterprise. At the time, the decision will seem to be correct, but it won't be. We have to anticipate and not make, not make the same mistake once. Something is waiting for us out there. Let's try and determine what it is, as quickly as possible.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Doctor?
PULASKI: I'm just beginning to realize just how much of the body is held together by its own internal clock. He was thrown out of time, which caused his body systems to change their rhythm. Now, slowly, as we get closer to the time he left, his internal body clock is realigning.
PICARD: You're saying that when our time intersects with the time he left, in that instant he will function normally and, and there will be two of us.
PULASKI: Right now, that is my guess.
PICARD: Doctor, I don't think that's possible.
TROI: I'm able to feel much more from him now, Captain. His emotions are still a jumble, but
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: He desperately wants to leave this ship.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We continue on course to Endicor. We are now less than two hours away from our rendezvous with ourselves.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Worf.
WORF: Maximum scan. Nothing unusual to report.
RIKER: If this timetable is correct, we could get an indication of something very soon.
PULASKI: Bridge, this is Sickbay.
PICARD: Yes, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Captain, my patient is more coherent.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I'm on my way. You have the Bridge, Number One.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: How is he?
PULASKI: His vital signs are more normal. Which is to say, more like ours. He is calmer.
PICARD: He's aware of me.
PULASKI: Perhaps, in some fashion.
PICARD: But he knows where he is, who's here with him.
PULASKI: I doubt it.
PICARD: What went wrong? You know, don't you? What did you do? What happened? Why did you leave the ship? Don't turn away. Look at me. Picard! Look at me!
TROI: Captain, he doesn't understand you.
PICARD: He knows I'm here.
TROI: Yes, but in a nightmare of disjointed images and half-heard voices. He's in another dimension, looking at us across a great chasm. And he's feeling remorse at what he has witnessed. He's afraid.
PICARD: What is he afraid of? Damn you. Help me! Why did you leave the ship?
TROI: It's no use, Captain. He can't answer you.
PULASKI: When we get closer to his time, he may be able to.
PICARD: Are you still convinced he's me?
TROI: Yes, but you're not convinced.
PICARD: Not in the slightest. Except for his features, there is nothing about him that I find familiar. Counselor, I want you to stay with him. He will be able to communicate with you before any on else.
PULASKI: I don't know how long anyone could take this kind of anxiety state. There has to be a breaking point.
TROI: I think he's handling it very well.
PULASKI: He has a lot of anger.
TROI: Yes, because of what he represents.
PULASKI: And what is that?
TROI: Doubt. He's afraid that seeing him here and knowing what happened to the Enterprise will make him timid, or worse, make him to hesitate.
PULASKI: Part of my job is to anticipate problems. My duty is to the Captain, but first to the ship and its crew.
TROI: Doctor, the Captain is quite capable of command decisions.
PULASKI: Yes, for now. But this situation has put him under extreme pressure of a unique and very personal kind. We both know that pressure will only increase. You said yourself that he already has doubt.
TROI: Which is understandable, and healthy.
PULASKI: And could be potentially paralyzing. If we begin to see signs that he's acting in an irrational manner, I have the authority and the duty to relieve him.
TROI: I don't think that will be necessary.
PULASKI: I hope you're right.

[Ready room]
PICARD: What force or phenomenon could cause the shuttle to be thrown back in time?
RIKER: None that we've encountered. In theory, accelerating beyond warp ten.
PICARD: Using the gravitational pull of a star to slingshot back in time. Is that what happened here?
RIKER: The shuttle doesn't have warp capability.
PICARD: No. So some external force was needed.
RIKER: We've never encountered a natural force that powerful. Why only six hours? Why not a day? Or a year?
PICARD: Are you saying there was some conscious mind at work here?
RIKER: There's no evidence either way.
PICARD: The Traveler moved through time using the power of his mind.
RIKER: I don't think that's the case here.
PICARD: No. And Manheim's experiments with gravity and time were rudimentary, and uncontrollable.
RIKER: Captain, I think this is one instance where you should suppress your natural tendencies.
PICARD: Oh, really?
RIKER: One of your strengths is your ability to evaluate the dynamics of a situation, and then take a definitive pre-emptive step, take charge. Now, you're frustrated because you not only can't see the solution, you can't even define the problem.
PICARD: Go on.
RIKER: What we're facing is neither a person nor a place. At least not yet. It's time.
PICARD: You're saying I should just sit down, shut up and wait.
RIKER: I wouldn't have put it exactly like that.
PICARD: Not something I do easily.
RIKER: Your Persian flaw.
PICARD: Yes, perhaps it is.
WORF: Captain to the Bridge.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
WORF: This energy vortex has just appeared beneath us. There was no warning.
RIKER: Well, at least the waiting's over.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We have apparently intersected with something.

[Bridge]
DATA: It is similar to our tractor beam, sir, only much more powerful.
LAFORGE: Bridge, this is Lieutenant La Forge.
RIKER: Bridge.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: The pull on the Enterprise is steady. I'm having to hold the warp engines at thirty percent in order to maintain our present position.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transfer Engine control to the Bridge.
LAFORGE: On my way, Captain.
TROI: Captain, there is a consciousness here. Not thought, more like instinct.
PICARD: What do you think, Number One?
RIKER: I think we're being probed.
DATA: The beam is coming from the center of the vortex. Sensors show it to be only a mass of energy.
PICARD: What is it trying to learn?
TROI: I think it's trying to determine if we are a life force.
PICARD: We'll stay and investigate.
RIKER: Agreed.
PICARD: Unless that was the mistake. Staying too long.
RIKER: Possibly.
PICARD: We should go now.
RIKER: Well
PICARD: That would be the prudent move. I never thought I'd hear myself saying something like that.
RIKER: Under the circumstances, sir, I think you're right.
PICARD: But you would rather stay and find out what it is? What is its intent?
LAFORGE: Engineering, transfer to Bridge.
PICARD: Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Sir.
PICARD: Try and take us out of here. Maximum warp.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. I've set the velocity at warp nine.
PICARD: Engage.
LAFORGE: Warp engines are at ninety one percent.
PICARD: Put it to the wall, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: I can't hold it.
RIKER: Captain, the engines can't handle the strain.
PICARD: All stop.
PICARD: Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: I'm re-engaging warp engines, Captain.
PICARD: Status?
WORF: All decks have reported. No damage. No injuries.
LAFORGE: Captain, the hold on the Enterprise is still very strong. I'm having to hold at warp seven just to maintain our position.
PICARD: Everything we do tightens its grip. Let's see what we can learn. Launch a Class one probe.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf
PICARD: That was personal.
LAFORGE: Captain, the power drain needed to hold this position is enormous.
PICARD: How long can you maintain it?
LAFORGE: Just a few minutes and then we're going to have to shut down again.
PULASKI: Captain some kind of energy

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Just surrounded my patient.
PICARD: Is he still alive?
PULASKI: Yes

[Bridge]
RIKER: Arm the photons, Mister Worf. Lock on the center of the vortex.
WORF: Photon torpedoes locked on target.
PICARD: Hold for my order.
RIKER: Like a rag in a dog's mouth.
LAFORGE: I am now at maximum warp.
TROI: It's you, Captain. It was the entire ship, but now it has focused its attention entirely on you.
LAFORGE: Captain, I can't hold it any longer. If we don't shut down right now, we are going
PICARD: Hold this position. Counselor, if I were to leave the Enterprise, would its attention still be focused on me?
TROI: Yes. I think it would.
RIKER: You'd never survive.
PICARD: But in those few seconds, the Enterprise might break free. That's what he, that's what the other Picard must have thought.
RIKER: Captain, where are you going?
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.
RIKER: You're leaving the ship?
PICARD: We may be on a road that has no turns.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Bridge.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, we're wasting our energy trying to escape. It only weakens us. Helm, set a course for the center of the vortex. Mister La Forge, on my command, I want all the power you can muster.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
RIKER: We're going in?
PICARD: Yes.
DATA: Course set, sir.
PICARD: Now everyone hold their position. No matter what. Engage. ibi
O'BRIEN: Captain Picard.

[Shuttlebay two]
O'BRIEN: This is Shuttlebay two. The other Picard and the shuttle are gone.
PICARD: Explain.
O'BRIEN: They just vanished.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What's our position?
DATA: We are back on course to Endicor.
RIKER: Stand down from Red Alert.
WORF: All decks have reported in. No damage, no casualties.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: A lot of questions, Number One. Damn few answers.
RIKER: Maybe none of it was real. Perhaps we were all part of a shared illusion.
PICARD: Or maybe he was thrown back in time, so that we would be able to take another road. Make a different choice. Well, they say if you travel far enough you will eventually meet yourself. Having experienced that, Number One, it's not something I would care to repeat.
RIKER: I'll be on the Bridge, sir.

[Engineering]
DATA: I would consider them insignificant.
RIKER: What if you're wrong? Sorry. But what if it is more than a mere diskrepancy?
LAFORGE: Then I'd say we have a problem.
PICARD: Agreed. We'll have Starbase Montgomery give us an independent reading.
DATA: Even if the molecular level controls have failed, we can still recrystallize the dilithium without outside help.
LAFORGE: Don't worry, Data. My ego isn't at stake here.
DATA: Perhaps we can reprogram the system to correct the readout variables
PICARD: Well, that's certainly another option, but as we're stopping at Starbase Montgomery anyway, we'll let them do the analysis.
RIKER: I don't recall Starbase Montgomery on the mission itinerary
PICARD: I think we could all use a twelve hour layover. Besides, I've just received some personnel transfer directives. Priority matter,
RIKER: Boarding or disembarking?
WESLEY: Captain Picard. We're within hailing range of Starbase Montgomery
PICARD: Go to half impulse power. Will you join me in the Observation lounge when you're done?

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Captain?
PICARD: Number One, I've just been recollecting the arrival of a new First Officer on board the Enterprise, and a manual docking confidently achieved. I may have been somewhat miserly in my congratulations then, so let me make up for it now. The Captain of the Starship Ares is retiring. Congratulations. You've been selected as his replacement.
RIKER: The Ares. She's in Vega-Omicron sector.
PICARD: And they have picked up indications of an intelligent life form, though nothing confirmed.
RIKER: Obviously, Starfleet will want to know more.
PICARD: That's why they're asking for you. Not for your military proficiency, but for your skill as an explorer and as a diplomat.
RIKER: Vega-Omicron. It'll take months at high warp just to get there.
PICARD: With no guarantee of finding anything when you arrive. Well, you have twelve hours to think it over. And if it's not too premature, congratulations, Captain.

[Corridor]
WESLEY: Worf, did you hear about Commander Riker's promotion?
WORF: Yes.
WESLEY: He didn't know his father was coming. He was completely surprised.
WORF: So?
WESLEY: Can you imagine if it was your father?
WORF: I never knew my father.
WESLEY: And I didn't have a father long enough to know him.
WORF: It is a waste of time to think of such things.
WESLEY: I wasn't thinking about it, but everybody needs somebody.
WORF: Enough!

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: You know, Starbase Montgomery really didn't have to send me all this help, because we've already checked the entire dilithium spectrum for anomalous frequencies, so you don't have to waste your time on that.
LAFORGE: Wes. Are you okay?
WESLEY: I was just talking to Worf. He's really eccentric at times.
LAFORGE: That's one word for it.
WESLEY: He was really upset. I must've said something wrong.
LAFORGE: Maybe Worf's not too thrilled with the idea of losing Commander Riker to a new assignment. I know I'm not.
WESLEY: Neither am I. But with Worf it was something else. Something's really bothering him.
LAFORGE: Think so?

[Engineering]
DATA: And it has nothing to do with Commander Riker's new assignment?
WESLEY: No. His reaction was just the opposite of mine. Completely unaffected.
LAFORGE: You see? With all that's going on, maybe you're overreacting.
WESLEY: Really? You try talking to Worf, Geordi. I'm telling you, he is not normal for Worf.
DATA: There is, of course, a genetic predisposition toward hostility among all Klingons, but Worf has been unusually out of sorts.
LAFORGE: Come on, he's never been much on charm.
WESLEY: Well, whatever is troubling him, I think we should try to help. He is our friend.
LAFORGE: I for one want to keep him friendly.
WESLEY: Suggestions?
DATA: Empirical study. Monitor the subject.
WESLEY: Right. Watch the subject for any signs of unusual behavior.
LAFORGE: That won't be difficult.
DATA: Within the norm of Klingon patterns, of course. Diskretion will be required.
WESLEY: Agreed. When do we start?
LAFORGE: We will assist you as needed. You found the problem.
DATA: And you must solve it.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come in. Worf?
WORF: May I have a moment, sir?
RIKER: Of course. What is it?
WORF: It is very difficult to say. Words are not always easy for me. Is that Earth?
RIKER: Yes. Alaska. I was nine years old.
WORF: That is a fish you are holding.
RIKER: And I didn't even catch it.
WORF: But it looks like you were
RIKER: I hooked it. My father took the rod away. He wouldn't let me reel it in. He was afraid that I might lose it.
WORF: You do not have good feelings for your father?
RIKER: No, I. I'm not sure what I'm feeling. What's on your mind?
WORF: You plan to leave the Enterprise.
RIKER: I've been offered my own command.
WORF: I would like to join you.
RIKER: I haven't accepted the assignment yet
WORF: But sir, it could be a dangerous mission. There may be the potential for combat.
RIKER: That is not the purpose of the mission.
WORF: Still, to die a true hero
RIKER: Worf, you've made your point.
WORF: Then I know you will do the right thing.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Data, what if I missed something?
DATA: The ship's computer would have corrected immediately.
LAFORGE: Maybe my inputs were incorrect.
WESLEY: Data! Geordi! I figured out Worf's problem.
LAFORGE: You spoke to him?
WESLEY: No, no. I accessed the complete Klingon cultural database. It took me some time
LAFORGE: Okay, Wesley, slow down. What is the problem?
WESLEY: It's the tenth anniversary of Worf's Age of Ascension.
LAFORGE: His what?
WESLEY: The Klingon Age of Ascension. It's a ritual of great significance. A rite of initiation marking a new level of Klingon spiritual attainment.
DATA: And what is the significance of the anniversary of this event?
WESLEY: It's a day of celebration and ritual spent with one's fellow Klingons. Worf doesn't have any Klingon friends.
LAFORGE: We're his friends.
WESLEY: Right, but we don't practice Klingon tradition, And we're not Klingons. Worf is feeling culturally and socially isolated.
LAFORGE: So, what do you suggest we do? I'm not sure I'd like to invite a bunch of Klingons on board.
DATA: We can program the ship's computer to supply simulations on the Holodeck.
LAFORGE: Holographic Klingons. Sure. Why not?
DATA: We need only to program the computer with details of the specific ceremony.
WESLEY: The cultural database said the Klingon's family must attend.
LAFORGE: So? We're his family. We'll go. I just wonder what kind of party the Klingons had in mind.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: Have you got a minute?
PULASKI: Sure.
RIKER: I wanted to apologize for my remark in Ten Forward. Your personal is none of my business.
PULASKI: Even if it involves your father?
RIKER: Even if it involves my father.
PULASKI: Did he ever tell you why he never remarried?
RIKER: What woman would have him with an ego like that?
PULASKI: I would have, in a cold minute. Twelve years ago, Kyle Riker was a civilian strategist advising Starfleet in its conflict with the Tholians. The starbase that he was operating from was attacked. None of the base crew was expected to live, and they all died. All except your father. Your father alone had the will to endure, to face the pain, to live.
RIKER: I never knew any of that about him.
PULASKI: I've never saw a man fight so hard in all my life.
RIKER: And you fell in love?
PULASKI: Yes. And so did he. But marriage was out of the question. He had other priorities.
RIKER: His career.
PULASKI: You know, if I were you, going out on the Ares, I'd jettison the emotional baggage you're still carrying around.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: Now the Klingon cultural database was very specific on the setting.
LAFORGE: Now let me guess. Twenty piece orchestra, magnificent ballroom, everybody in formal wear.
WESLEY: No, there is some unusual test of inner strength involved
DATA: That would entail the use of Klingon painstiks.
LAFORGE: Painstiks? Sounds lovely.
DATA: Enduring physical suffering is considered a Klingon spiritual test.
LAFORGE: You mean in order for Worf to celebrate the anniversary of his Ascension, he has to be hurt? And we have to witness this?
DATA: We are his family.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Number One?
RIKER: I'd be a fool to turn that promotion down, wouldn't I?
PICARD: I don't know, and if you're asking me what I think you should do, I don't know that either. I can spell out for you, albeit crudely, what you are choosing between. As the First Officer of the Enterprise you have a position of distinction, prestige, even glamor of a sort. You are the second in command of Starfleet's flagship, but still second in command. Your promotion will transfer you to a relatively insignificant ship in an obscure corner of the galaxy> But it will be your ship, and being who you are, it will soon be vibrant with your authority, your style, your vision. You know, there really is no substitute for holding the reins.
RIKER: I'll need a little more time to make this decision.

[Engineering]
O'BRIEN: Find anything yet?
LAFORGE: Not yet.
DATA: There is nothing to find.
O'BRIEN: No harm in checking, I guess.
LAFORGE: Really? How would you like them to give the transporter operation a little once-over?
O'BRIEN: No problem. We're totally ship-shape.
LAFORGE: You're missing the point. It's just the idea that they even suspect a malfunction.
DATA: If I were not a consummate professional, and an android, I would find this entire procedure insulting.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data.
WESLEY: Chief, will you be able to attend a little party for Lieutenant Worf at seventeen hundred hours?
O'BRIEN: A party for Worf? Sounds intriguing. I'd be delighted.
WESLEY: It's a surprise.
O'BRIEN: My lips are sealed.

[Troi's office]
RIKER: I didn't want to leave without saying good-bye.
TROI: I don't like good-byes. How about, until next time?
RIKER: How about until next time.
TROI: It's been a pleasure serving with you, Commander.
RIKER: The feeling is mutual, Counselor.
TROI: I'm supposed to know how everyone feels but, I can't read you right now.
RIKER: Perhaps your own feelings are getting in the way.
TROI: My job is to help others sort out their emotions. My own feelings are beside the point.
RIKER: Not to me. Our feelings are what make us all human.
TROI: Are you feeling sad?
RIKER: Yes, I am.
TROI: So am I.

[Corridor]
WORF: I do not enjoy riddles, Counselor.
TROI: You will enjoy this one.
WORF: I am in no mood for trifling or games, not today.
TROI: I know what an important day this is for you, the anniversary of your Rite of Ascension.
WORF: You know about that?
TROI: All your friends on board do.
WORF: That is impossible. It is a secret known only to Klingons.
TROI: And certain resourceful young Ensigns.
WORF: Wesley Crusher. What does he know about it?
TROI: Just bear with me.
WORF: Where are we going?
TROI: The holodeck.
WORF: This is truly trying my patience, Counselor.
TROI: I think you will approve.
WORF: You're not coming in?
TROI: No.
WORF: Open.

[Holodeck]
WORF: An Ascension ceremony.
LAFORGE: Happy anniversary, Worf.
DATA: Shall we begin?
WORF: I am ready.
WORF: DaHjaj SuvwI''e' jIH. tIgwIj Sa'angNIS. 'Iw bIQtIqDaq jIjaH. Today I am a Warrior. I must show you my heart. I travel the river of blood.
DATA: The true test of Klingon strength is to admit one's most profound feelings while under extreme duress.
WORF: jIbechrup may' vIlos.
WORF: The battle is mine. I crave only the blood of the enemy. HIHIvqa'.
WORF: The bile of the vanquished flows over my hands. May'pequ' moH.
WORF: Thank you.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: Is Lieutenant Worf all right?
PULASKI: He's never been happier.
TROI: So it was a good ceremony?
PULASKI: Let's just say that I was not about to stay for refreshments.
TROI: Klingon culture is not in your taste?
PULASKI: I'm just glad that humans have progressed beyond the need for barbaric display.
TROI: Have they? Commander Riker and his father are in the gymnasium, about to engage in barbarism of their own.
PULASKI: Don't remind me. It's something of which I do not approve.
TROI: In spite of human evolution, there are still some traits that are endemic to gender.
PULASKI: You think that they're going to knock each other's brains out because they're men?
TROI: Human males are unique. Fathers continue to regard their sons as children, even into adulthood. And sons continue to chafe against what they perceive as their fathers' expectations of them.
PULASKI: It's almost as if they never really grow up at all, isn't it?
TROI: Perhaps that's part of their charm, and why we find them so attractive.
PULASKI: Particularly men like Commander Riker.
TROI: And his father.
PULASKI: I hope they don't hurt each other.

[Bridge]
WORF: Starbase Montgomery's briefing specialist and analytical team have beamed down, sir.
PICARD: Ah. What were the analytical team's findings?
LAFORGE: They suggested we reprogram the system to correct the read-out variables.
PICARD: Precisely what Data recommended, as I recall. At least it gave Commander Riker the opportunity to consider his promotion. Now that he's accepted, we can leave him at Starbase Montgomery.
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER: Captain. With your permission, I've decided to stay on board the Enterprise.
PICARD: Granted.
RIKER: Thank you, sir. Take us out of orbit, Ensign Crusher.
WESLEY: Breaking synchronous orbit, sir.
RIKER: Set course for Beta Kupsic. That is still our destination? Velocity, warp factor five.
WESLEY: Course and speed set, sir.
PICARD: Any particular reason for this change of heart?
RIKER: Motivated self-interest. Right now, the best place for me to be is here.
PICARD: Engage.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, I've been reviewing the unmanned probe scans. At some point during the last one hundred and fifty years, the fifth planet of Selcundi Drema has shattered, forming an asteroid belt.
RIKER: I'd call that geological instability.
WORF: Is there any indication that this is the work of an unknown intelligence?
RIKER: This is geology, not malevolence. These planets live fast and die hard. The question is, why?

[Meadow]
TROI: So you like horses for the romance?
PICARD: It goes deeper than that. A fine war mare would sleep in a bedouin's tent, carry him into battle, feed his children with her milk. There's a bond which is created by mutual need. Hello, beautiful.
TROI: Now I understand. You don't want the comfort of a pet, you want a companion.
PICARD: Thank you. I don't want to anthropomorphise anything. I seems that some creatures have the capacity to fill spaces you never knew were empty.
TROI: I had a Betazoid kitten once. My mother and the cat reacted badly to one another.
PICARD: Sure you don't want to try? It's very relaxing. We can find you something that will be quiet and gentle.
TROI: No, I prefer a mode of transportation that doesn't have a mind of its own.
PICARD: Strange. I would expect Betazoids to be outstanding animal trainers.
TROI: We become too involved in the thoughts and shifting passions of the beast. We lose our way and get swept up in emotion.
PICARD: I should think the shifting passions of this beast would be far more terrifying.
RIKER: Captain.
PICARD: Yes, Number One?

[Bridge]
RIKER: We've entered the first system. I think you might want to come to the Bridge.

[Meadow]
PICARD: Something interesting?
RIKER: Spectacular. And a little terrifying.
PICARD: I'm on my way.

[Bridge]
RIKER: The first long range reading. Magnification ten to the sixth.
PICARD: Quite impressive.
RIKER: And deadly. The last unmanned probe showed a thriving ecozystem. Now there's nothing.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: This is Commander Riker's meeting.
RIKER: I'll need your advice and recommendations. As you know, I've been given the responsibility of overseeing Wesley's education. To further that goal, I would like to put him in charge of the planetary mineral surveys.
PULASKI: It's a big job with a lot of responsibility.
RIKER: The game isn't big enough unless it scares you a little.
LAFORGE: To do the job, Wesley's going to need a team. It takes command presence to lead. Do you think he's ready for that?
TROI: Leadership grows from self-confidence, which is also part of a Starfleet officer's education.
PICARD: All of this is true, but there is an old horse trainer's adage about putting too much weight on a young back. We don't want him to break under pressure.
PULASKI: We seem to be shifting the focus here. Are we talking about a young officer on the fast track to the Academy, or are we talking about a young man that we are guiding through adolescence and into adulthood?
TROI: You can't guide someone into adulthood. The experiences are unique to each person. Whether Wes succeeds or fails, he will learn from the experience.
PULASKI: I agree. I'm just questioning the speed at which we're moving.
LAFORGE: You think we're pushing him too hard?
PULASKI: I think that's a valid concern.
PICARD: Tempering is taken to extremes.
PULASKI: He is a boy, not a sword.
PICARD: Who will one day be a man and, to extend the metaphor, will need a fine edge that won't dull at the first touch of resistance.
RIKER: Sooner or later he'll have to feel the burden of command. Ensign Crusher.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Report to the Observation Lounge.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Wesley, I've assigned you the command of the planetary mineral surveys.
WESLEY: Sir? Thank you, sir.
RIKER: You may not thank me once you see how much work it entails. Assemble a team, and take a look at the records on the Drema quadrant. There's a mystery here. We've got to solve it.
WESLEY: Yes, sir. A team, sir?
PICARD: Ensign, this is a serious responsibility.
WESLEY: I know, sir.
PICARD: These officers are here to assist you. Not judge, help you. You should make use of them. They are a valuable resource. And by the way, I respect an officer who is prepared to admit ignorance and ask a question, rather than one who out of pride will blunder blindly forward.
WESLEY: I understand, sir.
RIKER: Ensign. You're dismissed.
WESLEY: I'll try not to disappoint you.

[Bridge]
WORF: Is this part of your regular duties?
DATA: No, it is a personal project. I have reset the sensors to scan for frequencies outside their usual range.
WORF: Such as?
DATA: The dips and peaks of the galaxy's magnetic field, organic molecules in nebular clouds, energetic cosmic rays.
WORF: Interesting. Would these scans also detect artificial transmissions as well as naturally occurring signals?
DATA: Of course.
WORF: Good.
DATA: Those signals are very faint and difficult to distinguish from background noise. That is why I am boosting the power.
DATA: I will be removing that equipment to my quarters.
WORF: Good.

[Corridor]
WESLEY: Hi. Can I walk with you?
TROI: Yes.
WESLEY: I need a little advice.
RIKER: Well, it's free.
WESLEY: Walking or advice?
RIKER: Both.
WESLEY: It's about my team. I'm considering so many factors I'm confusing myself.
TROI: What have you done so far?
WESLEY: Well, I've broken down the task and picked the best people in those diskiplines.
RIKER: So who have you got so far?
WESLEY: I've got Prixus in mineralogy and metallurgy, Alans and Hildebrandt for volcanology and geomechanics. I want Davies for geochemistry, but
TROI: But they're all much older than you are.
WESLEY: Right, and it makes me feel strange. What do I do about personality conflicts?
RIKER: Completely irrelevant. These people are professionals. If there's a personality conflict, you're in charge, you settle it.
WESLEY: So you not only have to understand the job, you also have to be a ship's Counselor.
TROI: Sometimes.
WESLEY: Well, thank you.
PICARD: Captain's log, Stardate 42696.3. We are entering the second Selcundi star system, where acting Ensign Crusher will begin his planetary mineral survey. The results of which may help unlock the geological puzzle.

[Corridor]
PULASKI: Wes?
WESLEY: Hi, Doctor Pulaski.
PULASKI: You have trouble behind that door?
WESLEY: My team's in there. I've got to assign planets, set a schedule.
PULASKI: It sounds like you've got everything under control.
WESLEY: I haven't had to deal with them yet. Not together, not professionally.
PULASKI: Wes, the minute you walk through that door they're your team. You have nothing to prove. You've got the authority.
WESLEY: That's just 'cos Commander Riker says I do.
PULASKI: It's up to you to hang on to it. Now, you'd better get in there, and Wes, for whatever it's worth, I think you're going to do just fine.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 42737.3. It has been six weeks since our entrance into the Selcundi Drema sector. Each system has revealed the same disturbing geological upheavals on every planet.

[Meadow]
PICARD: Data?
DATA: An excellent steed, sir. Sorry to disturb you, Captain.
PICARD: It's quite all right. It must be important, or you wouldn't be here.
DATA: Yes, sir, it is important. Very. Eight weeks ago I received a transmission, a simple four word message, 'Is anybody out there?' I answered it.
PICARD: There is a loneliness inherent in that whisper from the darkness.
DATA: Yes, sir. I am glad that you understand, sir.
PICARD: But it didn't end there.
DATA: No, sir. We speak often. It is a young female, humanoid.
PICARD: Her society is aware that there is interstellar life?
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: Oops. Just where does she think you're calling from?
DATA: I have kept that somewhat vague, sir, but Sarjenka, that is her name, has been quite specific, telling me details of her family and friends. And interspersed among these confidences have been some alarming references.
PICARD: Go on.
DATA: Drema Four has been enduring the same geological stresses we have found in the other systems.
PICARD: Then your friend is in trouble.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: What are you proposing?
DATA: If we can determine the cause of these geological disturbances, we might be able to reverse the process.
PICARD: Violate the Prime Directive?
DATA: I was hoping that you might have another option, sir.
PICARD: We don't even know if this catastrophe is preventable. Call a conference in my quarters. All senior staff.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: And Data, all communication with this life form must cease.
DATA: Yes, sir. I understand, sir.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: O'Brien, take a nap. You didn't see any of this. You're not involved.
O'BRIEN: Right, sir. I'll just standing over here, dozing off.
RIKER: Data, you've got ten minutes. That's it. If you meet anybody but Sarjenka
DATA: I will signal for immediate beam out.
PICARD: Commander Riker to the Bridge.
RIKER: Damn.
O'BRIEN: I just woke up, sir.
RIKER: You know what to do?
O'BRIEN: No problem, sir. I'll have him out of there as smooth as ice.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Doctor.
PULASKI: Yes, Captain?
PICARD: Data and the alien are on their way down. What would be involved in removing all memory of her communication with Data

[Pulaski's office]
PICARD: And her visit to this ship?
PULASKI: Assuming her brain structure is similar to ours, the memories would be stored chemically on the neurons of the cerebral cortex. They're also time dependent. I would have to scan for age of the chemical links, and try to find

[Ready room]
PULASKI: The relevant neurons.
PICARD: Well, do your best.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: You did a good thing, Data.
DATA: But are we doing a good thing now, Doctor?
PULASKI: This is to protect her as much as us.
DATA: By robbing her of her memories?
PULASKI: To remember you and this ship would complicate her future. She has to be the person she was born to be. And you'll remember.

[Sarjenka's house]
DATA: Enterprise, one to beam up.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Wes. Sit down.
WESLEY: No, thank you, sir. It's going to be a long time before I'm qualified enough to sit here.
RIKER: You did a good job. I'm proud of you.
WESLEY: Thank you, sir. Does it get any easier?
RIKER: No.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
DATA: I came to apologize, sir.
PICARD: No apologies are necessary. You reminded us that there are obligations that go beyond duty.
DATA: I appreciate your seeking other options, sir. Your decision could have been unilateral.
PICARD: One of my officers, one of my friends, was troubled. I had to help. Is Sarjenka safely home?
DATA: Yes, sir. She will not remember me, sir, but I will remember her.
PICARD: Remembrance and regrets, they too are a part of friendship.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: And understanding that has brought you a step closer to understanding humanity.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Deck nine. Officers' quarters.

[Shuttlecraft]
PICARD: Crewman? What is going on?
Q: Welcome, Picard, to shuttlecraft six.
PICARD: Q.
Q: There, there, haven't we been careless. A little cleaning service I'm only too than happy to provide.
PICARD: We agreed you would never trouble my ship again!
Q: I always keep my arrangements, sir. Look, we're nowhere near your vessel.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: Bridge, this is Ten Forward.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Guinan? I don't remember you ever calling the Bridge before.
GUINAN: Is everything alright?
RIKER: How do you mean?
GUINAN: Is there anything unusual happening?
RIKER: No Guinan, nothing out of the ordinary. Why do you ask?

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: I'm not sure. It's just a feeling. I've had it a couple of times before. It's probably nothing. Forget that I called. Ten Forward out.

[Shuttlecraft]
Q: The locator beacon won't help. They'll never think to look for you this far away.
PICARD: Enterprise, this is Picard. Stop this foolishness, Q. Return me to the Enterprise.
Q: I suggest you change your attitude. Petulance does not become you. We have business, Picard.
PICARD: Keeping me a prisoner here will not compel me to discuss anything with you.
Q: It will in time.

[Bridge]
DATA: We have covered the area in a spherical pattern which a vessel without warp drive could traverse in the time allotted.
RIKER: Widen the area.

[Shuttlecraft]
Q: Do we stay out here years? Decades? I am ageless, Picard. You are not.
PICARD: The Enterprise will continue with Riker as Captain.
Q: You are an impossibly stubborn human.
PICARD: Return me to my ship!
Q: If I return you to your ship, will you agree to give my request a full hearing?

[Ten forward]
Q: You're right Picard. This is the proper venue for our discussion.

[Ten forward]
GUINAN: I knew it was you.
Q: You! Picard, if you had half the sense you pretend to have, you would get her off your ship immediately. And if you like, I'd be more than pleased to expedite her departure.
PICARD: You know him?
GUINAN: We have had some dealings.
Q: Those dealings were two centuries ago. This creature is not what she appears to be. She's an imp, and where she goes, trouble always follows.
PICARD: You're speaking of yourself, Q, not Guinan.
Q: Guinan? Is that your name now?
PICARD: Guinan is not the issue here. You are. We had an agreement that you would stop meddling with us.
Q: And so I have.
PICARD: What do you want, Q? You state your business. Get on with it.
Q: I agree, Captain. Enough about this creature. She's diverting us from the purpose of my being here.
RIKER: Which is?
Q: Ah, the redoubtable Commander Riker. And Micro-brain. Growl for me. Let me know you still care.
PICARD: Worf.
Q: My purpose is to join you.
RIKER: To join us as what?
Q: As a member of the crew. Willing and able. Ready to serve. This ship is already home for the indigent, the unwanted, the unworthy. Why not for a homeless entity.
RIKER: Homeless?
Q: Yes.
RIKER: The other members of the Q continuum kicked you out.
GUINAN: Not all the Q are alike. Some are almost respectable.
PICARD: Ready and willing. Able to serve. What would you do? Would you start as an ordinary crewman? What task is too menial for an entity?
Q: Sir, do you mock me?
PICARD: Not at all. That's the last thing I would do. You, by definition, are part of our charter. Our mission is to go forth to seek out new and different life forms, and you certainly qualify as one of the most unique I've ever encountered. To learn about you is, frankly, provocative. But you're next of kin to chaos.
Q: Captain, at least allow me to present my argument.
PICARD: Worf.
Q: After our last encounter, I was asked to leave the Q Continuum. Since then, I've been wandering vaguely, bored really, my existence without purpose. Then I remembered all the good times I had with you.
RIKER: The good times? The first time we met you, you put us on trial for the crimes of humanity.
Q: Of which you were exonerated.
RIKER: The next time we saw you, you asked me to join the Q Continuum.
Q: A big mistake that you did not accept my offer. More and more I realize that here, here is where I want to be. Think of the advantages. Now, I neither expect nor require any special treatment. And if necessary, although I can't imagine why, I will renounce my powers and become as weak and incompetent as all of you.
PICARD: No.
Q: No? Oh, Captain, in fairness, let me try, I deserve at least that much.
RIKER: In fairness? You disrupt this ship, you kidnap the Captain.
Q: I add a little excitement, a little spice to your lives, and all you do is complain. Where's your adventurous spirit, your imagination. Think, Picard, think. Think of the possibilities.
PICARD: Simply speaking, we don't trust you.
Q: Oh. Well, you may not trust me, but you do need me. You're not prepared for what awaits you.
PICARD: How can we be prepared for that which we do not know? But I do know that we are ready to encounter it.
Q: Really?
PICARD: yes. Absolutely. That's why we're out here.
Q: Oh, the arrogance. They don't have a clue as to what's out here.
GUINAN: But they will learn, adapt. That is their greatest advantage.
Q: They're moving faster than expected, further than they should.
PICARD: By whose calculations?
Q: You judge yourselves against the pitiful adversaries you have encountered so far. The Romulans, the Klingons. They are nothing compared to what's waiting. Picard, you are about to move into areas of the galaxy containing wonders more incredible than you can possibly imagine, and terrors to freeze your soul. I offer myself as guide only to be rejected out of hand.
RIKER: We'll just have to do the best we can without you.
Q: What justifies that smugness?
PICARD: Not smugness, not arrogance. But we are resolute, we are determined, and your help is not required.
Q: We'll just have to see how ready you are.
GUINAN: Q!
PICARD: Bridge, this is the Captain. All stop.
WESLEY: Answering all stop, sir.
PICARD: Status?

[Bridge]
DATA: According to these coordinates, we have traveled seven thousand light years

[Ten Forward]
DATA: And are located near the system J two five.
RIKER: Travel time to the nearest starbase?
DATA: At maximum warp, in two years, seven months, three days, eighteen hours we would reach Starbase one eight five.
RIKER: Why?
Q: Why? Why, to give you a taste of your future, a preview of things to come. Con permiso, Capitan. The hall is rented, the orchestra engaged. It's now time to see if you can dance.
PICARD: Guinan, your people have been in this part of the galaxy.
GUINAN: Yes.
RIKER: What can you tell us?
GUINAN: Only that if I were you, I'd start back now.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 42761.9. Despite Guinan's warning, I feel compelled to investigate this unexplored sector of the galaxy before heading back.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, the sixth planet in the system is Class M.
DATA: There is a system of roads on this planet, which indicates a highly industrialized civilization. But where there should be cities there are only great rips in the surface.
WORF: It is as though some great force just scooped all the machine elements off the face of the planet.
DATA: It is identical to what happened to the outposts along the Neutral Zone.
WORF: Captain, we are being probed.
RIKER: What is the source of the probe?
WORF: A ship. It is on an intercept course.
PICARD: On screen. Magnify.
RIKER: Full scan.
PICARD: Go to Yellow Alert.
WORF: Going to Yellow Alert.
RIKER: Keep the shields down. We don't want to appear provocative.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, what can you tell us?
DATA: The ship is strangely generalized in design. There is no specific bridge, no command center. There is no engineering section. I can identify no living quarters.
RIKER: Life signs?
DATA: There is no indication of life.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, what is its alert status?
WORF: I detect no shields, no weapons of any known design.
PICARD: Hailing frequencies.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise.
WORF: No response.
PICARD: This is Captain Picard representing the United Federation of Planets. Guinan.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Activate your viewscreen. I would like you to monitor what's going on up here. I may need your input.

[Guinan's office]
GUINAN: I'm here, Captain.

[Bridge]
GUINAN: Viewscreen's activated. I have the other ship.
PICARD: You're familiar with this life form?
GUINAN: Yes.

[Guinan's office]
GUINAN: My people encountered them a century ago. They destroyed our cities

[Bridge]
GUINAN: They scattered my people throughout the galaxy.

[Guinan's office]
GUINAN: They're called the Borg. Protect yourself, Captain, or they'll destroy you.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Shields up.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
RIKER: All decks, stand by.
LAFORGE: Security, report to main Engineering. We have an intruder.
PICARD: Lieutenant? Status.
LAFORGE: It seemed to make a visual survey of the engine core, sir, then it moved in here.
Q: Interesting, isn't it? Not a he, not a she. Not like anything you've ever seen. An enhanced humanoid.
PICARD: What is it you want? We mean you no harm. Do you understand me?
Q: Understand you? You're nothing to him. He's not interested in your life form. He's just a scout, the first of many. He's here to analyze your technology. He may attempt to gain control of the ship. I wouldn't let him.
PICARD: Stop! I cannot allow you to interfere with the operation of this ship. Mister Worf.
WORF: Ensign.
PICARD: Mister Worf, use whatever means to neutralize the intruder.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report, Lieutenant.
WORF: The beam is draining our shields.
RIKER: If they pull down our shields, we're helpless.
PICARD: Warp eight, any heading. Engage.
WESLEY: Captain, the beam is holding us here.
RIKER: Increase power!
WORF: Shields weakening.
DATA: Shields will be down in eighteen seconds.
PICARD: Locate the exact source of the tractor beam. Lock on phasers.
WORF: Phasers locked on target.
PICARD: Fire.
WORF: They still have us.
DATA: Shields are down, sir.
WORF: A type of laser beam is slicing into the saucer section.
RIKER: Carving us up like a roast.
PICARD: With whatever force necessary, terminate that beam. Fire when ready.
PICARD: Again, Mister Worf.
DATA: Tractor beam is released, sir. Force field is maintaining our hull integrity.
RIKER: Damage report?
WORF: Coming in, sir. Sections twenty seven, twenty eight, twenty nine on decks four, five and six destroyed.
PICARD: Casualties?
WORF: Eighteen were in those sections and are missing.
PICARD: What is the condition of the alien ship?
WORF: They have sustained damage to twenty percent of their vessel. Life support minimal.
PICARD: Conference.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Guinan, how much more can you tell us about these creatures?
GUINAN: Bits and pieces.
PICARD: Anything would help.
GUINAN: They're made up of organic and artificial life which has been developing for thousands of centuries.
Q: The Borg is the ultimate user. They're unlike any threat your Federation has ever faced. They're not interested in political conquest, wealth or power as you know it. They're simply interested in your ship, its technology. They've identified it as something they can consume.
RIKER: You brought us here, you exposed us to them, and you cost us the lives of our shipmates
Q: Oh, please.
PICARD: Number One. Eighteen of our people have died. Please, tell us this is one of your illusions.
Q: Oh, no. This is as real as your so called life gets.
LAFORGE: This is Lieutenant La Forge, Captain. We've been able to restore power to the shields.
PICARD: Very good.
WORF: Captain, I have the casualty list coming on screen.
PICARD: Cancel. We'll deal with that later.
RIKER: Sir, if we're going to have further dealings with the Borg now or in the future, I think that we should find out all we can about them.
PICARD: Visit their ship?
RIKER: In my opinion, that's the only choice.
PICARD: Assemble a minimal away team.
GUINAN: What?
RIKER: Mister Worf, transporter room three. Data.
GUINAN: I wouldn't go there if I were you.
RIKER: Oh, I don't know, Guinan. They paid us a visit. It seems only fair that we return the courtesy.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We have been attacked without provocation by an alien race which Guinan calls the Borg. It appears that we have neutralized their vessel. Commander Riker is leading an away team in an attempt to learn more about them.

[Transporter room]
WORF: There are no life sign readings.
O'BRIEN: I've laid in coordinates which should set you down in the least damaged section of the Borg ship.
RIKER: Set phasers on stun. Be ready to increase power in case we need it. Energize.

[Borg ship]
RIKER: I wonder why they don't react to us, or why the Enterprise didn't read any life signs, especially with this many of them.
DATA: Perhaps because this ship was scanned for individual life signs. Apparently when they are in these slots, they become part of the whole and no longer read as separate life forms.
RIKER: Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.
RIKER: Our readings were incorrect. The Borg crew survived

[Borg ship]
RIKER: They appear to be in some kind of stasis.
PICARD: Explain.
RIKER: There are slots along the wall, kind of like compartments. There are two Borg in each.
DATA: Captain, I would theorize that the Borg are somehow interconnected through these slots and are working collectively.
RIKER: We're going try to access their main computer.
DATA: Commander, I believe each slot is designed for a specific Borg. Here is where the connection is made.
RIKER: Like a juggernaut, it could begin moving at any moment.
DATA: The technology required to achieve this biological and artificial interface is far beyond our capabilities. There are many advantages.
RIKER: Speed being the most obvious. This ship literally just thinks what it wants, and then it happens.
DATA: Fascinating.
RIKER: They either don't see us, or don't see us as a threat.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter Chief.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: O'Brien here, Captain.
PICARD: If your lock on the away team wavers in the slightest, beam them back immediately.
O'BRIEN: Count on it, sir.

[Borg ship]
RIKER: Captain this is incredible. We've entered what appears to be the Borg nursery.
PICARD: Describe it.
RIKER: From the look of it the Borg are born as biological life form. It seems that almost immediately after birth they begin artificial implants. Apparently the Borg have developed the technology

[Bridge]
RIKER: To link artificial intelligence directly into the humanoid brain.

[Borg ship]
RIKER: Astounding.
DATA: Commander?
RIKER: What is it?
DATA: The ship appears to be regenerating. Perhaps this explains why they have not taken notice of our presence. Their collective effort is being directed into repairing this vessel.
RIKER: Captain,

[Bridge]
RIKER: The Borg seem to be using their combined power to repair the ship.
PICARD: Transporter Chief, beam the away team directly to the Bridge.
PICARD: Let's get the hell out of here. Warp eight. Now, Mister Crusher. Engage.
DATA: Captain, the Borg are in pursuit.
PICARD: On screen. Magnify.
RIKER: Increase to ten to the third power.
RIKER: It's continuing to regenerate.
PICARD: Let's see if we can outrun them. Lieutenant La Forge, I want maximum warp

[Engineering]
PICARD: For as long as we can hold it.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. We are passing warp eight point five.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Eight point eight. Warp nine.
RIKER: Arm the photon torpedoes. See if we can slow them down.
WORF: Torpedoes armed.
PICARD: Fire.
WORF: They had no effect.
LAFORGE: Bridge, this is Engineering. We are now at warp nine point six five.
WORF: The Borg are still gaining.
Q: They will follow this ship until you exhaust your fuel. They will wear down your defenses. Then you will be theirs. Admit it, Picard. You're out of your league. You should have stayed where you belonged.
PICARD: Captain's log supplemental. We are unable to maintain the gap between the Enterprise and the Borg ship.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Engineering to Bridge.
PICARD: Go ahead.
LAFORGE: You've got all we can give you.
PICARD: I understand, Mister La Forge.
WORF: Captain, the enemy vessel is firing on us. There are no reports of any damage to the Enterprise.
DATA: Captain, the target was not the ship. The weapon was designed to drain the shields.
WORF: Confirmed. Shield effectiveness has been reduced twelve percent.
WESLEY: Captain, the Borg ship is closing.
WORF: They're firing again. Shields have been reduced forty one percent. Another hit and we will be defenseless.
RIKER: Arm the photon torpedoes.
WORF: Torpedoes armed.
PICARD: Fire the photons.
WORF: The Borg ship was not damaged.
Q: You can't outrun them. You can't destroy them. If you damage them, the essence of what they are remains. They regenerate and keep coming. Eventually you will weaken, your reserves will be gone. They are relentless.
WORF: The Borg ship is firing. We have lost shields again.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Captain, we've just lost the warp engines.

[Bridge]
Q: Where's your stubbornness now, Picard, your arrogance? Do you still profess to be prepared for what awaits you?
WORF: The Borg ship is re-establishing its tractor beam.
RIKER: Lock on photon torpedoes.
WORF: Yes, sir.
DATA: Without our shields, at this range there is a high degree of probability that a photon detonation could destroy the Enterprise.
RIKER: Prepare to fire.
Q: I'll be leaving now. You thought you could handle it, so handle it.
PICARD: Q. End this.
Q: Moi? What makes you think I am either inclined or capable to terminate this encounter?
PICARD: If we all die, here, now, you will not be able to gloat. You wanted to frighten us. We're frightened. You wanted to show us that we were inadequate. For the moment, I grant that. You wanted me to say I need you. I need you!
RIKER: Position.
WESLEY: Zero seven zero, mark six three, sir. Back where we started.
Q: That was a difficult admission. Another man would have been humiliated to say those words. Another man would have rather died than ask for help.
PICARD: I understand what you've done here, Q, but I think the lesson could have been learned without the loss of eighteen members of my crew.
Q: If you can't take a little bloody nose, maybe you ought to go back home and crawl under your bed. It's not safe out here. It's wondrous, with treasures to satiate desires both subtle and gross, but it's not for the timid.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, set course for the nearest starbase.
WESLEY: Course laid in for Starbase Eighty Three, sir.
PICARD: Engage.

[Ten forward]
GUINAN: Q set a series of events into motion, bringing contact with the Borg much sooner than it should have come. Now, perhaps when you're ready, it might be possible to establish a relationship with them. But for now, for right now, you're just raw material to them. Since they are aware of your existence
PICARD: They will be coming.
GUINAN: You can bet on it.
PICARD: Maybe Q did the right thing for the wrong reason.
GUINAN: How so?
PICARD: Well, perhaps what we most needed was a kick in our complacency, to prepare us ready for what lies ahead.

[Bridge]
RIKER: This just came in for you from Starfleet
WESLEY: Testing parameters?
DATA: Do not be apprehensive. Wes. I found the Academy examinations quite elementary.
WESLEY: You would.
RIKER: Your earlier test results were good enough to get you Academy credit for your work here. I don't think you have anything to worry about.
WESLEY: Those Academy cadets can be extremely competitive.
RIKER: But you have the practical experience, Wes.
DATA: Commander Riker is correct. While the information imparted to cadets at the Academy is unquestionably vital for prospective Starfleet officers, it nevertheless requires a significant period of supplementary systems training and situational diskiplines.
RIKER: Didn't I just say that?
DATA: Yes, sir, but not quite as perspicuously.

[Pulaski's office]
PICARD: I will not have you telling me what course to set.
PULASKI: As Chief Medical Officer, I am ordering you to report to Starbase Five One Five immediately.
PICARD: Oh, please. I feel fine.
PULASKI: The truth is, you've ignored this far too long.
PICARD: This ship has a mission to carry out.
PULASKI: An astronomical survey to be conducted by the science officers, I believe.
PICARD: And I 'was looking forward to seeing the Epsilon Pulsar Cluster for myself.
PULASKI: Then we'll perform the procedure right here.
PICARD: Absolutely not.
PULASKI: My staff and I are fully capable of giving you the replacement.
PICARD: That's not the point. It would be It would be inappropriate for you to carry out the procedure.
PULASKI: Captain Picard, I had no idea. You do have an ego, don't you?
PICARD: Meaning?
PULASKI: You're concerned about your image. Don't worry. If you get yourself down to Starbase Five One Five, your image will be safe with me.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Captain, excuse me.
PICARD: Ensign. I understand you're leaving for Starbase Five One Five.
WESLEY: Yes, sir. I was just going to shuttlebay two.
PICARD: Good. I have business there. I shall accompany you.
WESLEY: You will? I mean, yes sir.
PICARD: Prepare the shuttle for immediate departure.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Something I can take care of for you on Starbase Five One Five?
PICARD: Hardly, Number One.
RIKER: But you'll miss the Epsilon Pulsar survey.
PICARD: I'm well aware of that fact. You have the Bridge. Carry on.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come. Yes, what is it, Number One?
RIKER: Is something wrong? This trip to Starbase Five One Five is rather unexpected.
PICARD: Ensign Crusher and I will rendezvous with you on your return from the Epsilon Pulsar Cluster.
RIKER: Forgive my saying so, sir, but you're being rather enigmatic.
PICARD: Consider it Captain's privilege.
RIKER: As First Officer, I have complete security clearance.
PICARD: This has nothing to do with ship's business, Number One. Suffice it to say, it is strictly a matter of image.

[Shuttlecraft]
WESLEY: Shuttle number two is ready for departure.
DATA: The Enterprise is at impulse speed. You are cleared for take off.

[Shuttlecraft]
WESLEY: ETA thirteen thirty hours, sir. It's not exactly warp speed.
PICARD: More like a late twenty-second century interplanetary journey.
WESLEY: Sir?
PICARD: You should read more history, Ensign.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Complete waste of time.
WESLEY: Pardon?
PICARD: I shouldn't be taking this trip at all. I should be back on board the Enterprise.
WESLEY: Why are you coming with me to Starbase Five One Five, sir?
PICARD: Well, it's certainly not my idea. I'm sorry, Ensign, I didn't mean to take it out on you. I just hate the prospect of another damned cardiac replacement.
WESLEY: Cardiac replacement? I didn't know.
PICARD: Well, now you do.
WESLEY: A parthenogenetic implant?
PICARD: What else would it be? My heart was injured and a replacement was necessary. That would have been it, except that the replacement is faulty.
WESLEY: Why would anyone use a faulty replacement?
PICARD: Just pilot the shuttle, Ensign.

[Bridge]
TROI: Commander? Lieutenant La Forge is on an alien ship?
RIKER: Yes. We're rendering assistance to some curious throwbacks.
DATA: How they ever mastered the rudiments of space travel is a genuine curiosity.
TROI: Commander. Those aliens. What they feel is not helplessness. Lieutenant La Forge is in great danger! He's in danger, great danger.
RIKER: Can you be more specific, Counselor?
TROI: It's not our help they want.
RIKER: Well, our help is all they're going to get. They can't force us into anything, can they?
TROI: You think they're weak.
RIKER: Look at them. They're certainly not Jarada or Romulans.
DATA: Our Betazoid Counselor is often aware of things beyond our perceptive abilities.

[Shuttlecraft]
PICARD: Van Doren's technique has been perfected to two point four percent.
WESLEY: Sir?
PICARD: The cardiac replacement procedure. It has a very low mortality rate. Two point four percent.
WESLEY: Those are pretty good odds.
PICARD: Just not overly thrilled at the prospect of having my innards becoming the subject of Starfleet gossip.
WESLEY: Of course not, sir. Why didn't you just have Doctor Pulaski perform the operation? I'm sure you could've trusted her to keep it quiet.
PICARD: Let's say I have personal reasons and leave it at that, shall we?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Are you all right?
LAFORGE: Sure. Why do you ask?
RIKER: Counselor Troi has expressed misgivings about your absence from the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: I don't think there's anything to worry about.
RIKER: Understood. As soon as you complete the repairs, I want you back here.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir, I should be done here momentarily.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I have a problem.
RIKER: On screen.
LAFORGE: It looks like this is going to take a little bit longer than I anticipated.

[Shuttlecraft]
WESLEY: I guess you would have preferred Commander Riker as a traveling companion.
PICARD: What?
WESLEY: It's okay. You're not too comfortable with me. I understand.
PICARD: Ensign. Wesley, that's not true. You're a fine young man.
WESLEY: You don't have to say that, sir. It's pretty obvious how you feel.
PICARD: Is it? How so?
WESLEY: Everyone knows. You don't like kids. That's too bad. You'd have made a good father.
PICARD: Thank you.
WESLEY: Didn't you ever wish you had kids of your own?
PICARD: Wishing for a thing does not make it so.

[Shuttlecraft]
PICARD: Would you care for some coffee, Ensign?
WESLEY: No, thank you, sir.
PICARD: How about a sandwich?
WESLEY: I don't think so, sir.
PICARD: Oh, come on, it's been hours. You must be hungry.
WESLEY: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Here.
WESLEY: Were you ever married?
PICARD: Never had the time.
WESLEY: Don't you ever get lonely?
PICARD: For ambitious Starfleet officers, there are certain costs involved. One must be cautious of long-term commitments, Wesley.
WESLEY: No problem. Where women are concerned, I am in complete control.
PICARD: Really? I always rather had to work at that.
WESLEY: Have you always been so diskiplined?
PICARD: Good Lord, no. If I was, I wouldn't have this problem.
WESLEY: I don't understand.
PICARD: Well, I was a young Starfleet officer, not many years older than you are now. Top of my Academy Class. Green as hell. And oh, so cocky. Too cocky, as it turned out.
WESLEY: What happened?
PICARD: Several friends and I were on leave at Farspace Starbase Earhart. It was little more than a galactic outpost in those days.
WESLEY: Was this before the Klingons joined the Federation?
PICARD: That's right. Well, my mates and I were at the Bonestell Recreation Facility, which was something of a dead rough crossroads at the time, filled with an assorted bunch of galactic riffraff. When a trio of Nausicaans came in, they were clearly spoiling for a confrontation with a group of fresh-faced Starfleet officers such as ourselves. Well, everyone in the group had the good sense to give these Nausicaans a wide berth, to stand off. Everyone, that is, except me. I stood toe to toe with the worst of the three, and I told himwhat I thought of him, his pals, his planet, and I possibly made some passing reference to his questionable parentage. And the next thing I knew, all three of them were on me and I was fighting for my life. I was actually doing quite well for a while, too.
WESLEY: You fought them? And won?
PICARD: I had this one Nausicaan down in this somewhat devious joint-lock when, unbeknownst to me, one of his chums drew his weapon and impaled me through the back. Curious sensation, actually. Not much pain. Shock, certainly, at the sight of serrated metal sticking through my chest. A certain giddy warmth. In fact I do actually remember that I laughed out loud. Well, it pierced my heart, of course. Well, if we'd not been so near to a medical facility, I would surely have died.
WESLEY: Really? Then what happened?
PICARD: Nothing. I was no hero, Wesley. I was an undiskiplined, loud-mouthed, opinionated young man who was way out of his league. I learned a very hard, very painful lesson that day, but I learned it well. I hope you never have to learn it the same way. Care for another sandwich?
WESLEY: Please.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Come on, Data.
DATA: I am programming the comm. system to scan the interference patterns, but a full analysis will take time.

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander, a photon torpedo may penetrate their shield.
RIKER: Any hostile move on our part could jeopardize Geordi.
WORF: Agreed. But what do the Pakleds want?
RIKER: Counselor?
TROI: They have what they want. For now.

[Shuttlecraft]
WESLEY: We're approaching Starbase Five One Five, sir.
PICARD: At last. Did you read that book I gave you?
WESLEY: Some of it.
PICARD: That's reassuring.
WESLEY: I just don't have much time.
PICARD: There is no greater challenge than the study of philosophy.
WESLEY: But William James won't be in my Starfleet exams.
PICARD: The important things never will be. Anyone can be trained in the mechanics of piloting a starship.
WESLEY: But Starfleet Academy
PICARD: It takes more. Open your mind to the past. Art, history, philosophy. And all this may mean something.

[Bridge]
TROI: It's all deception. Nothing the Pakleds have said or done has been sincere.
DATA: Intensified scan shows their guidance system to be perfectly intact, as is their power generator.
RIKER: Then what was Geordi repairing?
DATA: Apparently, the putative malfunctions were carefully programmed into their ship's computer.
RIKER: I didn't think the Pakleds had that kind of technology.
DATA: They seem to have made some technological leaps forward, Commander.
RIKER: Why would they go through the charade of needing our help?
TROI: For the sole purpose of making Lieutenant La Forge their prisoner. Captain's personal log, stardate 42779.5. We have arrived at Starbase Five One Five. I'm still quite uneasy, despite assurances that this medical procedure poses little risk.

[Starbase 515 Medical Complex]
PICARD: I hope you won't be late for your exams.
WESLEY: I still have some time, sir.
PICARD: Why do I get the distinct impression you're acting like some kind of escort?
WESLEY: Doctor Pulaski asked me to make sure you actually went inside.
PICARD: That woman. She would.
WESLEY: Sir?
PICARD: Yes, what is it, Ensign?
WESLEY: I enjoyed our trip together, sir.
PICARD: So did I.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: We've got a man held hostage by alien forces and all I have are no-option options. I need some input.
PULASKI: Is Geordi all right?
WORF: He's already been hit by multiple phaser stuns.
PULASKI: He could need medical attention.
WORF: Security team stands ready to take the initiative, sir.
RIKER: Data?
DATA: Our options have not changed. We can either respond to the Pakled demand or not. We can either use force or not.
RIKER: Allowing them access to our computer is a complete breech of Starfleet security.
WORF: Then force it must be.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: There's limited information available on Pakled culture, but the eclectic range of their equipment suggests their technology was borrowed from others.
TROI: And now they have become militant.
DATA: So it would seem.
RIKER: Rationale?
TROI: They are unwilling to wait for the timely evolution of their species' intellectual capacity. They want instant knowledge, instant power and gratification.
PULASKI: The more they get, the more they want.
RIKER: And the more aggressive and dangerous they become. I think it's time we set some limits.
DATA: To what effect, sir? We are faced with an impossible conundrum.
RIKER: Suppose we turn their impatience and greed against them?
PULASKI: But how?
RIKER: Perhaps Geordi should give them something they want. Something important. Then we simply create the right moment for him to take it away, and get him the hell out of there.
TROI: Would you be suggesting a ruse of some sort?
RIKER: I would.
PULASKI: But what if we fail? What'll happen to Geordi then?
RIKER: We have no other choice. We have to try.

[Bridge]
WORF: I am receiving an emergency summons from Starbase Five One Five. Captain Picard

[Engineering]
WORF: Is close to death.
RIKER: Be ready.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Start firing countdown from twenty four.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Fire.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I beg your pardon?
LAFORGE: Looks like things are back to normal.
PICARD: I'm pleased to report that Ensign Crusher's Starfleet exam results permit him to continue his studies on board the Enterprise. Furthermore, any rumors of my brush with death are greatly exaggerated. Is that clear?
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Then, Ensign Crusher, set course for the Epsilon Sector, warp five. Engage.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, will you join me in the Ready room?
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: Medical emergency. Doctor Pulaski to the Bridge.
PICARD: What happened?
DATA: He just collapsed, sir.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 42823.2. We're departing from Starbase Seven Three to investigate the source of the mysterious distress signal. Meanwhile, my Security Officer remains in Sickbay, where Doctor Pulaski is searching for the cause of his collapse.

[Sickbay]
WORF: I am fine.
PULASKI: You're not fine. You fainted.
WORF: I did not faint. Klingons do not faint.
PULASKI: Excuse me, I'll rephrase. This Klingon suffered a dramatic drop in blood pressure, his blood glucose level dropped, there was deficient blood flow resulting from circulatory failure. In other words, he curled up his toes and laid unconscious on the floor.
WORF: Doctor, there is no need to insult me.
PULASKI: Worf, I am worried. Now, something is wrong. Klingons don't faint. Forgive me. I just can't think of another word that applies. You're sick.
WORF: Klingons do not give in to illness.
PULASKI: Just stay right where you are. I have to check something with the computer. Lieutenant, you have rop'ngor.
WORF: But that is a childhood ailment!
PULASKI: Yes.
WORF: How shall I live down the humiliation?
PULASKI: Worf, you can't help.
WORF: Still, for a warrior to find himself in such a situation.
PULASKI: So you've got the Klingon version of the measles.
WORF: How would Commander Riker feel if he had the measles.
PULASKI: Pretty silly.
PICARD: Doctor Pulaski, how is Lieutenant Worf?
PULASKI: He's in no danger. Worf was just observing a Klingon ritual involving fasting, and he didn't take into account that you have to decrease your physical activity as you decrease your caloric intake. Pulaski out.
WORF: Thank you. I am in your debt.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
DATA: Captain, I have been considering the problem of the missing ship. Although there is no record of a launch to the Ficus sector, which would not be unusual considering the chaos of the early twenty second century, someone had to load that ship.
PICARD: The manifest.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: There it is. SS Mariposa, loaded 27th November, 2123. Destination Ficus sector. Captain Walter Granger, commanding.
DATA: Mariposa. The Spanish word for butterfly.
PICARD: Thank you, Data.
DATA: I thought it might be significant, sir.
PICARD: It doesn't appear to be, Data.
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: You learn a lot about people from their luggage. Two hundred and twenty five Yoshimitsu computers, five monitor beacon satellites, seven hundred cellular commlinks, fifty spinning wheels.
DATA: Spinning wheels? Accessing. A device for spinning yarn or thread that consists of a large foot or hand driven wheel and one spindle.
PICARD: Cattle, chickens, pigs. Not DNA, the actual livestock. Incredible. Why would anyone carry such an insane mix of cargo?
DATA: Spindle, a thin rounded tapering rod
PICARD: Data!
DATA: Perhaps they were planning for the worst, sir.
PICARD: Theorize, Data. Give me some background.
DATA: In the early twenty-second century, Earth was recovering from World War Three. A major philosopher of the period was Liam Dieghan, founder of the Neo-Transcendentalists, who advocated a return to a simpler life in which one lived in harmony with nature, and learned under her gentle tutelage
PICARD: Thank you, Data. But if this was a ship full of utopians, why carry all this technological baggage?
DATA: I have insufficient information from which to form a cogent theory, sir.

[Pulaski's office]
WORF: Doctor. I wished to thank you for protecting my
PULASKI: Your secret is safe with me. Worf, I'm honored. No one has ever performed the Klingon tea ceremony for me.
PULASKI: There, that should do it.
WORF: You know the ceremony?
PULASKI: I understand the externals, not the mysteries. I'm not a Klingon.
WORF: You must not drink the tea. It is deadly to humans.
PULASKI: And none too good for Klingons.
WORF: It is a test of bravery, of one's ability to look at the face of mortality. It is also a reminder that death is an experience best shared, like the tea.
PULASKI: Worf, you're a romantic.
WORF: It is among the Klingons that love poetry achieves its fullest flower.
PULASKI: Hold that thought.
PULASKI: Antidote. If we're going to share, let's share. Now, quote me a little of that poetry.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Initiate sensor sweeps.
DATA: Aye, sir. The system's sun has entered a period of severe flare activity.
RIKER: Now we know what triggered the SOS.
DATA: Class M readings from the fifth planet in the system.
PICARD: Take us in.
WORF: Shields at maximum.
DATA: Sensors indicate human life form readings thirty meters below the planet's surface.
WORF: Hailing on all frequencies. No response so far, but the flares may be interfering with communications.
DATA: There is no evidence of an advanced communication network.
PICARD: They brought a lot of technology. Where is it?
WORF: There is no artificial power source on the planet.
DATA: The stellar flares are increasing in magnitude and frequency. Computer projections indicate they will brush the planet in three point six hours.
WORF: Evacuation will be difficult. We can lower our shields for transport only between the flares.
TROI: Captain, these people have been isolated for three hundred years. They could be very unsophisticated. The shock of suddenly being transported onto a spaceship could frighten them, to say the least.
PICARD: Your point is well taken, Counselor. Number One, you're going to have to go down there.
RIKER: On my way.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 42827.3. Commander Riker has reached the caverns, where he is making preparations to begin the evacuation.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What's the situation, Number One?
RIKER: There are roughly two hundred people down here.
PICARD: Their condition?
RIKER: Surprisingly good.
PICARD: Are they willing to leave?
RIKER: Yes, but
PICARD: Well, get them up here.
RIKER: I'm having a little debate with the colony's leader. It seems
PICARD: There's no time, Number One. Initiate the transport.
RIKER: But, sir
PICARD: Whatever the problem, we'll handle it up here.
RIKER: Aye, aye, sir, we're on our way. All of us. Riker out.

[Pulaski's office]
LAFORGE: Hey. So what happened to you two down on Mariposa? Is everything all right?
RIKER: Is there any reason why it shouldn't be?
LAFORGE: Yeah. Every time I asked where you were, some clone lied to me.
RIKER: Lied to you?
LAFORGE: Commander, with this I can see better than your average person. Now when someone lies there are certain physical manifestations. Variations in blush response, pupil dilation, pulse, breath rate. Doesn't always work with aliens, but humans? Got'em nailed.
PULASKI: The clones lied about our whereabouts? I don't remember anything happening. I was working in their medical facility and got a call to report to Granger's office. I ran into Will on the way
LAFORGE: Now wait a minute. Granger said he hadn't seen either one of you. Did you make it to his office?
RIKER: I think, I don't remember.
LAFORGE: So what's the prognosis, Doc?
PULASKI: Geordi, you'll be pleased to know that you're not missing any epithelial cells.
LAFORGE: Great.
PULASKI: Will and I, however, are.
RIKER: Meaning?
PULASKI: Although you can clone from any cell in the body, the cells lining the stomach are the best choice because they're relatively undifferentiated.
LAFORGE: Where are you going?
RIKER: To their cloning lab.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Doctor, how desperate is the colony's situation?
PULASKI: They've got two or three generations, then the fading will be terminal. They're among the walking dead now. They just haven't been buried.
RIKER: I want the cloning equipment inspected. Who knows how many tissue samples were stolen. We certainly have a right to exercise control over our own bodies.
PULASKI: You'll get no argument from me.
TROI: I know the Mariposan culture seems alien, even frightening, but really, we do have much in common. They're human beings fighting for survival. Would we do any less?
PICARD: Are you saying we should give them the DNA samples they require?
PULASKI: That's just postponing the inevitable. If they get an infusion of fresh DNA, in fifteen generations they'll just go back to the same problems. Cloning isn't the answer. What they need is breeding stock.
PICARD: The Bringloidi.
TROI: Yes. They have the energy and drive, and the clones possess the emotional maturity and the technological knowledge.
PICARD: They started out together. It seems only fitting they should end up together.
PULASKI: It's a match made in heaven.
RIKER: Unfortunately it will have to be a shotgun wedding.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: I thought you might find this interesting, Mister Crusher. Few humans have ever seen an Antedean in the flesh.
PICARD: Welcome. I'm Jean-Luc Picard, Captain of the Enterprise.
WESLEY: Are they alright, Captain?
PICARD: Yes. This is their preferred way of space travel.
PULASKI: Their physical condition is good enough, considering the circumstances.
PICARD: It is a self-induced catatonic state. Their way of dealing with the trauma of spaceflight.
WESLEY: Will we try to revive them?
PICARD: No, not until we reach the Pacifica conference, three days from now. Doctor, have you prepared a Sickbay facility to accommodate our guests?
PULASKI: As soon as I can make some adjustments. Their physiology is unusual. You can store them for a few hours?
O'BRIEN: Sure. I'll have them kept out of the way here.
PICARD: Mister Worf, provide security.
WORF: Aye, sir.
WESLEY: What's in that container?
PULASKI: Vermicula. It's their food. When they come out of stasis, they'll be very hungry.
WESLEY: They eat this?
PULASKI: In great quantities.
WORF: What a handsome race.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: And she actually complimented Captain Picard on his legs?
DATA: I would have thought a telepath would be more diskreet, sir.
RIKER: Exactly the opposite. She knows what's in your mind and she lets you know what's on hers.
PICARD: Gentlemen. I think we must not lose sight of the fact that we're talking about someone who has been granted ambassadorial rank. Even though she may appear somewhat eccentric, Lwaxana Troi must be treated with the appropriate respect. Is that understood? Picard to Pulaski.
PULASKI: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: When did you last time you look in on the Antedean guests?

[Transporter room]
PULASKI: Doing so right now, Captain.
PICARD: Are they still catatonic?
PULASKI: Status of the beings is unchanged. Pulse, still steady. Respiration normal for them.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Understood. Keep me informed. Picard out. I'll be in my quarters. It will be a dress uniform dinner, gentlemen.
RIKER: Sir?
DATA: To which dinner was the Captain referring, sir?
RIKER: Nothing I've been invited to. Any of you? Very interesting!

[Corridor]
PICARD: Doctor? You're not attending the dinner with the rest of us this evening?
PULASKI: I've already eaten, but thanks, Captain.

[Bridge]
DATA: Ooolans of Marejaretus Six, who use two large stones which are continuously struck during the meal. Those at the dinner must eat until the stones are broken.

[Bridge]
DATA: Indeed, sir. I'm on my way. Data out.

[Corridor]
PULASKI: Your mother seems quite an interesting woman, Deanna.
TROI: Perhaps I should tell you something about my mother's condition at this time.
PULASKI: Condition at this time?
TROI: It's something that occurs to Betazoid females as they enter mid-life. We call it the phase.
PULASKI: Mid-life? As in a human female's menopause?
TROI: Similar. It's only at mid-life that a Betazed female becomes, well, fully sexual, if you know what I mean.
PULASKI: Yes, I think I do. I also think that I saw the Captain on his way to her quarters.
TROI: I wonder if I shouldn't warn him?
PULASKI: No. As ship's Doctor I'd consider it excellent exercise for his reflexes and agility.
TROI: Doctor !
PULASKI: For staying ahead of your mother.
TROI: Yes. An animal is always at its best when hunted.
PULASKI: Or when hunting.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Data, you will never know just how much I owe you for that.
DATA: Indeed, Captain? I know many more interesting anecdotes, sir. For example,
PICARD: Data.
DATA: Sir?
PICARD: Later.
DATA: Yes, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I was what? I tell you, Deanna, for a telepath, your mother's accuracy leaves much to be desired.
TROI: Actually, her telepathic prowess is quite advanced. Except for now.
RIKER: Except for now?
PICARD: Don't misunderstand me, Counselor. Your mother is a beautiful person,
TROI: My mother is beginning a physiological phase. It's one that all Betazoid women must deal with as they enter mid-life.
RIKER: Yes, it's something Troi warned me about when we first started to see each other. A Betazoid woman, when she goes through this phase, quadruples her sex drive.
TROI: Or more.
RIKER: Or more? You never told me that.
TROI: I didn't want to frighten you. She has opted for the only dignified option open to her.
RIKER: Isolation?
TROI: She has decided to focus all of her sexual energy on one male, who will, of course, eventually become her husband. It seems, Captain, that you are the early favorite.
RIKER: Congratulations, sir!
PICARD: I'm not amused, Number One. There must be some way to convince her that it's quite impossible, without offending her.
TROI: You cannot apply human style logic to this, Captain. A Betazoid woman in the phase would be shocked and deeply resentful, should you spurn any such advances. She would take it personally.
PICARD: Well, under the circumstances, I think it would be prudent if I were to make myself less available for the duration of this journey.
RIKER: Agreed.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Bridge, this is Doctor Pulaski.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Pulaski to Bridge.
RIKER: Riker here.
PULASKI: The Antedeans are coming around. They are currently in the early stages of post hibernation.

[Rex's Bar]
PICARD: Understood.
RIKER: I'd better get to the Bridge.
PICARD: What's their condition?

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Hungry. Would you like to be shown to your rooms?

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: Transporter ready, Captain.

[Bridge]
WORF: Range now seventy five hundred.
PICARD: Steady as she goes
WORF: Probe is standing abeam.
PICARD: Engage tractor.
O'BRIEN: Transporter beam locked, Captain.
PICARD: Energize.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Probe aboard, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Status, Mister Data?
DATA: Based on the last assumed position of the Klingon vessel, its apparent trajectory, and our estimates of their cruising speed, we should be in scanner range in fifteen hours, eight minutes.
PICARD: Lieutenant?
WORF: Special Emissary K'Ehleyr has declared a short recess, sir. I wish to run a full diagnostic test on all tactical back-up equipment.
RIKER: We just ran a full test of those systems.
WORF: I feel it necessary to check them again.
PICARD: Lieutenant, I commend your diligence. However, I'm concerned that you're working yourself too hard.
WORF: Sir, considering the unknown elements we are about to face
PICARD: Lieutenant, I order you to relax.
WORF: I am relaxd. Yes, sir.
PICARD: I've never before seen the Lieutenant so unsettled.
RIKER: The Iceman's finally melting.

[Bridge]
DATA: Bearing three one-six mark four two

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Extreme sensor range.
PICARD: Lay in intercept course. Go to yellow alert.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Another millimeter. That's it. A little more. There. That's excellent.
RIKER: Lieutenant?
LAFORGE: Yes, Commander.
RIKER: You've heard of the simulation aboard the Hathaway?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir, and the best of luck to you. I've researched the old Avidyne engines. They're archaic by our standards, very touchy.
RIKER: Anticipating the worst, do you think they can be whipped into shape in forty eight hours?
LAFORGE: I've already taken the liberty of putting together a few necessities.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Enter!
RIKER: Am I disturbing you?
WORF: Just finished.
RIKER: You know of the simulation. What do you think?
WORF: Waste of time.
RIKER: It's just designed to be an exercise.
WORF: Useless. If there is nothing to lose, no sacrifice, then there is nothing to gain.
RIKER: You mean besides pride. Well, in this case it doesn't matter. I probably haven't got a chance.
WORF: There is always a chance.
RIKER: Slim. The Hathaway's most sophisticated weapon system, even in a computer mock-up, can't hope to defeat the Enterprise.
WORF: Well, still
RIKER: You're out-manned, you're out-gunned, you're out-equipped. What else have you got?
WORF: Guile.
RIKER: Join me.
WORF: The honor is to serve.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: So you're going to beat him?
RIKER: Nope.
LAFORGE: Well, then it's going to be a close one.
RIKER: No.
LAFORGE: But you have got a chance?
RIKER: Nah.
LAFORGE: Are you going to bother to show up?
RIKER: Sure, Kolrami is the best ever at Strategema. Just to get to play him is a privilege.
LAFORGE: Other aside from your being privileged, is there anything else I can look forward to?
RIKER: Nope.
LAFORGE: This is going to be exciting.

[Ten Forward]
PULASKI: Against an opponent of approximate skill, Strategema can last well over one thousand moves.
LAFORGE: I wouldn't bet on us being here that long.
WORF: I have wagered heavily in the ship's pool that you will take him past the sixth plateau.
RIKER: And if I don't?
WORF: I will be irritated.
DATA: Forever curious, this urge to compete.
PULASKI: It's a human response. That inborn craving to gage your capabilities through conflict.
DATA: Doctor, there are other ways to challenge oneself.
PULASKI: Perhaps, but they all lack a certain thrill.
TROI: Data, humans sometimes find it helpful to have an outsider set the standard by which they're judged.
DATA: To avoid deceiving oneself.
PULASKI: Maybe you should challenge Kolrami to Strategema.
DATA: Why, Doctor?
PULASKI: Because when someone is that smug, you occasionally have to deflate them just a little.
LAFORGE: Yeah, Data, I'd like to see your neural flex tear him down a peg.
DATA: To what end?
WORF: Computer. Actuation positions for Strategema. Ready? Begin.
LAFORGE: Come on, Commander, come on now.
TROI: Will.
LAFORGE: You can do it. You can get him. Come on, Commander. Come on, you got him, you got him, watch out. Here you go.
PULASKI: That's it?
RIKER: I'm afraid so.
PULASKI: But but you only made twenty-three moves.
RIKER: Yes. Congratulations. <

[Hathaway Bridge]
LAFORGE: There should be some emergency Bridge lighting here.
WORF: Not good.
RIKER: Ah, you're wrong, Mister Worf. It's fantastic. And it's ours. Mister Worf.
WORF: Sir, Lieutenant La Forge is a superior officer. The honor should be his.
RIKER: Worf, this is a battle simulation. You're my Tactical Officer. I've discussed this with Geordi and we agreed. You need to be at my side.
LAFORGE: Besides, Worf, if Engineering's anything like the Bridge, I'm going to have my hands full.
RIKER: Attention, crew of the USS Hathaway. This is your Captain. Over the next two days, you might lose a lot of sleep, but with your skill and your stamina, we'll have this old lady ready to fly. I want hourly progress reports from all stations. Riker out.

[Hathaway Bridge]
RIKER: Nice job, Geordi.

[Hathaway Engineering]
RIKER: Now, what are the possibilities of warp drive?
LAFORGE: Not good. There are only a few dilithium fragments left in the holding clamps. Even if we had crystals that were intact, there's no anti-matter to fuel the drive.
RIKER: Any recommendations?
LAFORGE: No, sir.
WESLEY: We haven't got a prayer.

[Hathaway Bridge]
RIKER: Would you like to transfer back

[Hathaway Engineering]
RIKER: To the Enterprise, Mister Crusher?
WESLEY: No, sir.

[Hathaway Bridge]
RIKER: Wes, remember our purpose is to improvise,

[Hathaway Engineering]
RIKER: It's the effort that counts.

[Hathaway Engineering]
WESLEY: The lining's still smooth. We should to be able to do something with these dilithium fragments we scavenged.
LAFORGE: Sure, the system is functional. But without antimatter, what difference does it make?
WESLEY: Geordi, I have to return to the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: Wes, we've only got thirty two hours.
WESLEY: This is important.
LAFORGE: And this isn't?

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Come in, please.
TROI: Data.
DATA: Counselor. Is something wrong?
TROI: That was going to be my question.
DATA: With my repository of knowledge, I expected to perform better against a humanoid life form.
TROI: You know, some of our greatest advances have come from analyzing failure. While it can be ego-bruising
DATA: But Counselor, I do not have an ego.
TROI: Yes. Well, a loss can be disheartening.
DATA: But Counselor, I do not have a
TROI: Data. You can handle defeat in two ways. You can lose confidence, or you can learn from your mistakes.
DATA: That is what troubles me. I made no mistakes. I have conducted a diagnostic check of all of my programs. I am cross-checking with the ship's computer.
TROI: Is that all necessary?
DATA: I believe so. I have proven to be vulnerable. At the present time, my deductions should be treated with skepticism.
TROI: That is why you haven't been on the Bridge.
DATA: Yes. The Captain would be ill advised to rely upon my judgment.
TROI: I think you're really over-reacting. I'm sure you're all right.
DATA: I, however, am not sure.

[Hathaway Engineering]
LAFORGE: Easy now. Is that it?
WESLEY: Yeah.
LAFORGE: Good. Good work. All right, Hand me the connector on that kit.
RIKER: What is that?
WESLEY: My experiment from the Enterprise.
RIKER: Wes?
WESLEY: It deals with high energy plasma reactions with anti-matter.
RIKER: You went back to the Enterprise for that? Wes, you cheated.
WESLEY: No, sir. You told me to improvise.
LAFORGE: The hard part's going to be calibrating the thermal curve necessary to start a controlled reaction.
RIKER: Assuming you can, can you regulate the reaction?
WESLEY: There's just enough crystal to do it. We plan to channel the reaction through the chips.
LAFORGE: Are we good?
RIKER: You're better than good. Great. Brilliant. It's going to be fun. Carry on.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Come in, please.
PULASKI: All right, Data, enough of this.
DATA: Doctor?
PULASKI: How long are you going to sit sulking like Achilles in his tent?
DATA: I am conducting diagnostic
PULASKI: You may be able to sell Troi that story, but not me. You're smarting because you were beaten. Well, it happens.
DATA: No, Doctor, this is not ego. I am concerned about giving the Captain unsound advice.
PULASKI: I wish I had never maneuverd you into playing that game. I'm sorry.
DATA: Why, Doctor? It is done, and perhaps just as well. This has indicated that I am damaged in some fashion. I must find the malfunction.

[Hathaway Engineering]
RIKER: The simulation begins in one hour.
LAFORGE: You'll have warp drive, Captain, though it may not be what you expected.
RIKER: I think that deserves some kind of explanation.
LAFORGE: We'll have warp one for about
WESLEY: Just under two seconds.
RIKER: That's not long enough for an escape, but used as a surprise it may give a strategic advantage.
LAFORGE: Sir, all of this is theoretical.
RIKER: And if your theory fails to pay off?
LAFORGE: Ever driven a Grenthemen Water Hopper?
RIKER: Yes.
LAFORGE: Ever popped the clutch?
RIKER: You're saying we're going to stall the Hathaway?
WESLEY: And the Enterprise will waltz right over and pulverize us.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Let me try to understand. You're saying that Commander Data is suffering from a profound loss of confidence, and that you believe only I can restore the balance?
TROI: Yes, sir.
PULASKI: Both Deanna and I have tried, but we're not getting through to him.
PICARD: Don't you think you both might be overreacting? Data is not capable of the emotions which you are assigning to him.
PULASKI: The effects are the same, whether they're caused by human emotions or android algorithms. Data's not on the Bridge, and I don't think Data's going to be on the Bridge until we find some way to address his problem.
PICARD: I am less than an hour away from a battle simulation, and I have to hand-hold an android.
PULASKI: The burdens of command.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Come in, please.
PICARD: Commander, I require your presence on the Bridge.
DATA: Captain, with all due respect, perhaps it would be better if you choose another to serve as your First Officer.
PICARD: Data, you are my First Officer.
DATA: I have not been able to isolate the problem, sir. I might make a mistake.
PICARD: Yes, you might. But that does not alter your duty to me and to this ship. Now, do you know how to formulate a premise?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Then formulate this one. How do I deal Riker and the Hathaway? I will await your answer on the Bridge. And, Commander, it is possible to commit no mistakes and still lose. That is not a weakness. That is life.
DATA: I believe I understand, sir.
PICARD: And Data, will you leave your hesitation and self-doubt here in your quarters.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: I have several examples of Commander Riker's battle technique. At the Academy, he calculated a sensory blind spot on a Tholian vessel and hid within it during a battle simulation. And as a lieutenant aboard the Potemkin, his solution to a crisis was to shut down all power, and hang over a planet's magnetic poles, thus confusing his opponent's sensors.
TROI: And from these specifics, what general conclusion can you extrapolate?
DATA: Only twenty-one percent of the time does he rely upon traditional tactics. So, the Captain must be prepared for unusual cunning. Counselor, Commander Riker will assume we have made this analysis, and knowing that we know his methods, he will alter them. But, knowing that we know that he knows that we know, he might choose to return to his usual pattern.
TROI: Wait, wait. You're over-analyzing, Data. One cannot deny human nature. What kind of a man is Commander Riker?
DATA: A fighter?
TROI: Yes.
DATA: The weaker his position, the more aggressive will be his posture.
TROI: And he won't give up.
DATA: Then despite whatever options he is given, he must be
TROI: The man that he is. Exactly.
DATA: Is that a failing in humans?
TROI: You'll have to decide that for yourself.

[Hathaway Bridge]
LAFORGE: Kumeh maneuver? Why would they start out with such a recognizable ploy?
RIKER: He's teasing. He wants us to reveal our tactics on his terms. Mister Worf?
WORF: Counter with Talupian maneuver on instrument sighting.
RIKER: Agreed. Three quarters impulse, full on my command. Ensign Nagel, maximum shields. Mister Worf, prepare your little surprise.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Hathaway Bridge]
WORF: Computers report heavy damage to Enterprise.
WESLEY: They're moving off, sir. Why not go after them?
RIKER: Because they're not through coming after us. Wesley, Geordi, prepare to warp jump.
LAFORGE: There are no guarantees here, sir.
RIKER: There never are, Lieutenant. I'm going to trust your expertise. Secure your stations. Stand by for my signal.

[Hathaway Bridge]
RIKER: Waiting for you to pull another rabbit out of your hat.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Mister Data
DATA: On the Captain's signal, we will fire four photon torpedoes directly at the Hathaway.

[Hathaway Bridge]
DATA: One millisecond after its detonation, the computer will trigger your warp jump.
LAFORGE: I think I hate this plan. Data, we're not even sure our warp jump

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: Will work.
DATA: If the warp engines fail to function, the result could be unfortunate.
WORF: Very unfortunate.

[Hathaway Bridge]
WORF: We will be dead.
PICARD: Captain Riker

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: I cannot order you to do this.

[Hathaway Bridge]
RIKER: What the hell. Nobody said life was safe.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: The advantage is, that it will appear from the Kreechta's perspective as though you were destroyed in the explosion.

[Hathaway Bridge]
WORF: That only deceive them for a few minutes. Their sensors will soon locate us.
RIKER: We'll only need few minutes, Mister Worf, because you're going to prepare another surprise for them.
PICARD: Then we're agreed.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: On my mark, four minutes.
DATA: Remember, Geordi, if the implementation is off by a millisecond

[Hathaway Bridge]
DATA: The Hathaway will not survive.
LAFORGE: Data, that's the one part of this plan that we're all absolutely sure about.

[Steamy mangrove swamp]
LAFORGE: There you are. What's wrong?
RIKER: Something jabbed me here in the calf.
LAFORGE: O'Brien, Commander Riker's been injured. Lock on and bring him up.
O'BRIEN: Stand by.
RIKER: Geordi, it's just
LAFORGE: A scratch. Right. Sorry, Commander. We can't take any chances. We're the first survey team to set foot on this planet. We don't know what the risks are.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: O'Brien, what's the hold up?
O'BRIEN: The transporter's detected unidentified microbes in Commander Riker's body.

[Steamy mangrove swamp]
LAFORGE: Well, can't the bio-filter screen them out?
O'BRIEN: Apparently not.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: But Doctor Pulaski has been notified.

[Steamy mangrove swamp]
LAFORGE: Acknowledged.
RIKER: I wasn't ready to leave here anyway.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Here's the biofilter's analysis of the microbes.
PULASKI: That's not much to go on.
O'BRIEN: I can override and beam Commander Riker aboard .
PULASKI: No. I'd better go down and make an evaluation there.
O'BRIEN: I hope these are the right coordinates. Just kidding, Doctor. I know how much you love the transporter.
PULASKI: About as much as I love comical Transporter Chiefs.
O'BRIEN: Ready?

[Steamy mangrove swamp]
RIKER: Over here, Doctor.
PULASKI: Fill me in.
RIKER: I was walking along minding my own business, doing a simple geological sweep. Something stuck me in the leg.
PULASKI: Any pain?
RIKER: No. Just a little numb, that's all.
PULASKI: Do you know what it was that stuck you?
LAFORGE: We've been looking for it. No luck.
PULASKI: Well, whatever it was, it left something behind. I'm going to take you up to Sickbay. O'Brien, this is Doctor Pulaski.

[Transporter room]
PULASKI: Medical override is authorized.
O'BRIEN: Acknowledged.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: This is the strangest feeling. My whole leg just went dead.
PICARD: Captain's log, Stardate 42976.1. During a geological survey on Surata Four, Commander Riker has become infected by an unidentified microbe.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Number One.
RIKER: Captain.
PICARD: Put your foot where it didn't belong?
RIKER: The Doctor said she was getting bored. I just thought I'd give her a challenge.
PULASKI: That you did. The Commander's nervous system has been invaded by an unknown microorganism. Not a bacteria, not a virus, but with the elements of both. There's the point of entry. The microbes are infecting the great sciatic nerve, and they are multiplying at an incredible rate. There.
PICARD: Can you remove it?
PULASKI: Not surgically. The organisms fuse to the nerve, intertwining at the molecular level.
RIKER: That's why the transporter's biofilters weren't able to extract it.
PULASKI: There's no evidence of nerve damage, but the organisms are impeding nervous function.
RIKER: My leg's still asleep.
PICARD: Prognosis?
PULASKI: The infection is spreading. It will eventually reach the brain.
PICARD: And if it interfered with neural activity there?
PULASKI: Commander Riker could die.
PICARD: How can I help?
PULASKI: I need to know more about its composition.
PICARD: And for that, you need a sample.
PULASKI: Exactly.
PICARD: Commander Data, Mister La Forge, prepare to beam down to the planet.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
DATA: I must reiterate, it would be better if I went alone.
LAFORGE: Don't like my company?
DATA: Your company is not at issue. Your vulnerability to the microorganism is.
LAFORGE: I'll watch where I step. Besides, how do we know that this bug doesn't like androids more than it likes humans?
DATA: Possible, but highly unlikely. In any event, why risk both of us?
LAFORGE: Because I know exactly where Commander Riker was when it happened.
DATA: Mister O'Brien, energize.

[Steamy mangrove swamp]
LAFORGE: He was right over here.
DATA: I am detecting no animal life within fifty kilometers. However, I am reading extensive animal remains, mostly fossilized.
LAFORGE: A graveyard?
DATA: I do not know.
LAFORGE: Data, that a look at this.
DATA: The structure is rhizomatous.
LAFORGE: Careful.
DATA: I am always careful.
DATA: It appears to be dead.
LAFORGE: I'm not so sure. I can see thermal variations. Let it go for a second, Data. Let's try something. Perhaps it likes humans more than androids.
DATA: If you are correct, you are placing yourself in grave danger.
LAFORGE: I'm counting on those great android reflexes of yours.
LAFORGE: That must be what we're looking for.
DATA: I would tend to agree.
LAFORGE: Stand by, O'Brien. Got it. Energize!

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: Thanks, O'Brien. Another minute, and we'd have been fossils ourselves.
DATA: Not precisely, Geordi. True fossilization requires several millennia.
LAFORGE: Here's your sample, Captain.
PICARD: Get it to Sickbay right away.
PICARD: Report.
DATA: Captain, Commander Riker's injury was not accidental. Certain vines on the planet evidently seek out warm-blooded beings and deliberately infect them.
PICARD: To what end?
DATA: Unknown, sir. It is conceivable there is a symbiotic relationship involved.
PICARD: Go on.
DATA: There are numerous animal remains in the area, leading me to hypothesize that the vines could be predatory.
PICARD: Vines infect animals in order to kill them?
DATA: It is possible. For Commander Riker's sake, I hope my hypothesis is in error.
PICARD: Unfortunately, Mister Data, your hypotheses rarely are.

[Pulaski's office]
PULASKI: All negative.
PICARD: Is there nothing that will cure this infection?
PULASKI: This microorganism is very mysterious. I can't even figure out what's keeping it alive.
PICARD: Or how to kill it.
PULASKI: Oh, I can kill it but not without destroying the nerves it's inhabiting.
PICARD: I know you're doing your best, Doctor.
PULASKI: My best may not be good enough.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Comfortable?
RIKER: Why wouldn't I be comfortable? They're waiting on me hand and foot. I hope that they don't find out that I'm faking it.
PICARD: I wish you were faking it. I've seen the thorn.
RIKER: Yes, Doctor showed it to me, too. Rather harmless-looking thing, I thought.
PICARD: And deadly. I'm sorry.
RIKER: Well, these things happen.
PICARD: When least expected.
RIKER: I'm surprised they don't happen more often. After all, we are exploring the unknown.
PICARD: And the unknown can be benign or malevolent.
RIKER: Captain, one of the things I've learned anything on these voyages, on this ship, and from you, is that most life forms act out of an instinct for survival, not out of malice.
PICARD: It's an important lesson, and I admire your lack of resentment, Number One.
RIKER: If you drop a hammer on your foot, it's hardly useful to get mad at the hammer.

[Pulaski's office]
PICARD: Anything?
PULASKI: Not yet.
PICARD: What can I do?
PULASKI: You can get out of my hair.
PICARD: Aye aye, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: This bug is persistent, I'll admit that. But I'm not worried. We Rikers are ornery, too. As a matter of fact, my great grandfather once got bit by a rattlesnake. After three days of intense pain, the snake died.
TROI: You're a very entertaining patient.
RIKER: I try.
TROI: Yes. you're making quite an effort to be cheerful.
RIKER: You, of all people, should know.
TROI: You feel what anyone in your position would feel.
RIKER: As the First Officer on this ship, I have to set an example.
TROI: Even now?
RIKER: Now more than ever. Deanna, facing death is the ultimate test of character. I don't want to die, but if I have to, I'd like to do it with a little pride.
TROI: And a lot of impudence.
RIKER: You bet. Dying is bad enough but, to lose my sense of humor? Forget it.
TROI: Imzadi.
RIKER: I haven't given up yet.
PULASKI: It's spread to the spinal column. It's weakening his autonomic nervous system. Judging by its present rate of growth and its infiltration pattern, the infection will spread to the brain within an hour. Medical log, Stardate 42976.3. I can't keep the alien infection from spreading to Commander Riker's brain. Once there, it will kill him by dampening neural impulses. The only way I can keep him alive is to force the neurons to stay active by stimulating them directly with electrical impulses.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Let's proceed.
PULASKI: Good. Stand by with five milligrams of tricordrazine in case of seizure. Here goes.

[The Last Outpost]
RIKER: Tasha? Data? Geordi? Worf? Anybody?

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: We've stimulated random wave activity, but the patterns are dangerously erratic.
TROI: Hang on, Will. Hang on.
PULASKI: The wave patterns are still too irregular.
TROI: Why won't they stabilize?
PULASKI: Wait. I've found the right amplitude. There. The patterns are steadier.
TROI: Is the stimulation preventing the infection from taking hold?
PULASKI: For now. The vertex waves indicate a K-complex corresponding to an REM state.
TROI: He's dreaming.

[Holodeck]
RIKER: Hello!
DATA: Marvelous. How easily humans do that. I still need much practice.
RIKER: There are some puzzles down on the planet that the Captain wants answered. He suggested that I take you with me on the away team I'll be leading.
DATA: I shall endeavor to function adequately, sir.
RIKER: Yes. When the captain suggested you, I looked up your record.
DATA: Yes, sir. A wise procedure, sir, always.
RIKER: Then your rank of Lieutenant Commander is honorary?
DATA: No, sir. Starfleet class of '78. Honors in probability mechanics and exobiology.
RIKER: But your files they say you're a
DATA: Machine? Correct, sir. Does that trouble you?
RIKER: To be honest, yes, a little.
DATA: Understood, sir. Prejudice is very human.
RIKER: Now that does trouble me. Do you consider yourself superior to us?
DATA: I am superior, sir, in many ways. But I would gladly give it up to be human.
RIKER: Nice to meet you, Pinocchio. A joke.
DATA: Ah! Intriguing.
RIKER: You're going to be an interesting companion, Mister Data.

[The Dauphin Ten Forward]
WESLEY: What should I say? How do I act? What do I do?
RIKER: Guinan, I need your help. Could you step over here a minute?
GUINAN: Sounds simple enough.
RIKER: Now, the first words out of your mouth are the most important. You may want to start with something like this here. You are the most beautiful woman in the galaxy. But that might not work.
GUINAN: Yes. Yes, it would.
RIKER: You don't know how long I've wanted to tell you that.
GUINAN: But you were afraid.
RIKER: Yes.
GUINAN: Of me?
RIKER: Of us. Of what we might become.
WESLEY: Commander?
RIKER: Or that you might think that was a line.
GUINAN: Maybe I do think it's a line.
RIKER: Then you think I'm not sincere?
GUINAN: I didn't say that. There's nothing wrong with a line. It's like a knock on the door.
RIKER: Then you're inviting me in?
GUINAN: I'm not sending you away.
RIKER: That's more than I expected.
GUINAN: Is it as much as you hoped?
RIKER: To hope is to recognize the possibility. I had only dreams.
GUINAN: Dreams can be dangerous.
RIKER: Not these dreams. I dream of a galaxy where your eyes are stars and the universe worships the night.
GUINAN: Careful. Putting me on a pedestal so high, you may not be able to reach me.
RIKER: Then I'll learn how to fly. You are the heart in my day and the soul in my night.
WESLEY: I don't think this is my style.
GUINAN: Shut up, kid. Tell me more about my eyes.

[The Icarus Factor Troi's office]
RIKER: I didn't want to leave without saying goodbye.
TROI: I don't like goodbyes. How about, until next time.
RIKER: How about, until next time.
TROI: It's been a pleasure working with you, Commander.
RIKER: The feeling is mutual, Counselor.
TROI: I'm supposed to know how everyone feels, but I can't read you right now.
RIKER: Perhaps your own feelings are getting in the way.
TROI: My job is to help others sort out their emotions. My own feelings are beside the point.
RIKER: Not to me. Our feelings are what make us all human.
TROI: Are you feeling sad?
RIKER: Yes, I am.
TROI: So am I.

[Sickbay]
TROI: He's relaxd. Experiencing feelings of warmth and friendship.
PULASKI: He's reliving memories. It's a natural side effect of neural stimulation. Look at this. The organisms' metabolism has changed. I wonder if the stimulation is affecting them somehow. I'm going to refocus the impulse pattern on the interpretative cortex.
TROI: To intensify his memories?
PULASKI: Exactly. We'll see if that has an effect on the microbes.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Something wrong?
TROI: No, it's just that Commander Riker's emotions are rather passionate.
PULASKI: As in erotic?
TROI: Very much so.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: The organisms responded all right. Their growth rate has doubled.
TROI: Then all we've done is made things worse.
PULASKI: Now we know the organism's growth rate is related to the memories he's experiencing.
TROI: Or the emotions that they produce.
PULASKI: Different mental processes generate different chemicals. Perhaps the organisms are sensitive to brain endorphins.
TROI: Then if some types of endorphins attract them
PULASKI: Others will repel them. I'm going to change the differential current pattern and see what happens.

[The Child Troi's quarters]
PULASKI: I'm losing life signs.
TROI: You must save him.
PULASKI: I'm sorry.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: Growth rate has definitely slowed. What is he feeling? Can you tell?
TROI: Sadness.
PULASKI: Which is the opposite of before, and it's having the opposite effect on the infection.
TROI: Then your theory's correct. The organisms are sensitive to different types of endorphins.
PULASKI: And negative emotions
TROI: Such as sadness
PULASKI: Produce endorphins that inhibit the organisms' growth.
TROI: Then we've found a way to repel the infection.
PULASKI: Assuming we're not too late already.
TROI: How much time do we have?
PULASKI: I'm not sure. His vital signs are getting weaker. I don't want to risk another dose of tricordrazine unless I have to. I must refocus the pattern again. We need to isolate memories that generate stronger negative emotions.

[Skin of Evil Sickbay]
PULASKI: We've reduced the growth rate even further, but not enough. And his vital signs are deteriorating.
TROI: But we've isolated the specific areas to stimulate. The feelings were primal. Survival emotions.
PULASKI: They must be producing a type of endorphin that's poisonous to the organisms.
TROI: Can't you intensify that emotion?
PULASKI: I can refocus the impulse pattern even tighter. But I don't know if he can withstand it. He's extremely weak.
TROI: Do we have a choice?
PULASKI: No. If we don't neutralize the infection, within half an hour he'll be dead. Medical log, supplemental. Commander Riker's condition is still critical. I've discovered a way to reverse the infection's growth rate, but I may be too late.

[Sickbay]
TROI: He's getting weaker, isn't he?
PULASKI: Respiration shallow, heartbeat extremely irregular, but we can't delay any longer.

[The Last Outpost]
RIKER: Who are you?

[Bridge]
DATA: Armus has enveloped Commander Riker.
PICARD: I'm beaming you up.

[Sickbay]
PULASKI: The growth rate's down to seven percent. The organisms are still impairing his neural functions. Respiration's erratic, pulse grossly irregular, blood pressure almost nil. Tricordrazine.
TROI: Can we tighten the pattern further?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Tasha, go to transporter room three. I want you there when the away team returns.
TASHA: Aye, sir.

[Batris Corridor]
LAFORGE: Commander, we are out of time. This ship is blowing.
RIKER: Transporter room, have you got a lock on us?

[Transporter room]
TASHA: Too much interference. You have to get farther away from the Engineering section.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, the Engineering section is critical. Destruction of the Batris is imminent.
PICARD: They're out of options. Do it!

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Now!

[Sickbay]
TROI: The growth rate's almost down to zero.
PULASKI: That's not good enough.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: Data, something's got me!
PULASKI: Sickbay to Bridge.
PICARD: Yes, Doctor?
PULASKI: We've eradicated the infection.
PICARD: I'm on my way.
RIKER: You're still here?
TROI: I could ask you the same question.
PULASKI: How do you feel?
RIKER: Beat. You wouldn't believe the dreams I was having.
TROI: Oh yes we would.
PULASKI: You'll be pleased to know that we've terminated the infection.
RIKER: Great work, Doctor. Now, if I can get out of here, I'd like to get back
PULASKI: Lie still. I have a few dozen tests to run first.
RIKER: Why? I feel fine.
PULASKI: There may be some residual memory loss. I just want to be sure you still know who you are.
RIKER: Of course I know who I am. I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise.
PICARD: I'm delighted that you're feeling better, Captain. The Admiral and I were worried about you.
DATA: Captain, I do not believe you have the authority to promote me to the rank of Admiral.

[Ten forward]
DATA: Captain. Doctor. I am honored by your presence, but may I suggest you attend the second concert.
CRUSHER: Why, Data?
DATA: Ensign Ortiz will perform the violin part. My rendition will be less enjoyable.
PICARD: Oh?
DATA: Although I am technically proficient, according to my fellow performers, I lack soul.
CRUSHER: Data, telling us why you're going to fail before you make the attempt is never wise.
DATA: But is not honesty always the preferred choice?
PICARD: Excessive honesty can be disastrous, particularly in a commander.
DATA: Indeed?
PICARD: Knowing your limitations is one thing. Advertising them to a crew can damage your credibility as a leader.
DATA: Because you will lose their confidence?
CRUSHER: And you may begin to believe in those limitations yourself.
RIKER: Captain, we're receiving a message from the Sheliak Corporate.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Got it. The Artemis. Launched ninety two years ago. Destination Septimus Minor. When they failed to check in, Starfleet began an extensive search.
PICARD: What carried the Artemis

[Planet surface]
PICARD: So far off course?
DATA: My local informant does not have that information. In the early days on Tau Cygna Five, survival was more important than history.
PICARD: Understood. How many are there?
DATA: Fifteen thousand two hundred fifty three, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Fifteen thousand!
RIKER: Three days, no transporters. We'll never get them out in time.
PICARD: Shuttles?
WORF: Loading all the Enterprise shuttlecraft to capacity, evacuation will take four weeks, four days.
PICARD: We need more time. Mister Data, prepare the colonists for an evacuation.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Get me the Sheliak.
WORF: Their home world is quite distant, Captain. This will take some time.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Gentlemen, we're giving you an assignment. One thing we don't want to hear is that it is impossible.
PICARD: I need the transporters to function despite the hyperonic radiation.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but that's im. Yes, sir.
RIKER: Even if we get the Sheliak to talk, they're not likely to be accommodating.
TROI: Captain, when the treaty was first negotiated the Federation sent three hundred and seventy two legal experts. What do we have?
PICARD: Thee and me?

[Bridge]
PICARD: I'm contacting Starfleet to arrange transport. Get those people prepared to evacuation. We may have to move quickly.

[Ard'rian's home]
DATA: Aye, sir. We must speak to Gosheven immediately.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Gentlemen, how's it coming? What the hell is that?
LAFORGE: Our first attempt.
RIKER: Keep at it. We need those transporters.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Yes, sir?
PICARD: Three weeks. Starfleet is profuse in their apologies, but it will still be three weeks until the arrival of a colony transport ship equipped with dedicated personnel shuttles.
RIKER: We can't wait three weeks.
PICARD: Then the Sheliak must agree to extend our deadline. They plan to settle Tau Cygna Five two days from now.
RIKER: One of their ships must already be en route.
PICARD: We're going to intercept that ship.
RIKER: The Sheliak may interpret that as a hostile act.
PICARD: A risk we have to take.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: The Enterprise is going to try to intercept the Sheliak colony ship. Your job well, you know what your job is.
DATA: Commander.

[Main square]
DATA: In human parlance, I do not believe I can get the job done. My training has prepared me for starship command duties. As a cultural contact I am proving to be

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Less than exemplary.
RIKER: What's the situation?
DATA: Their leader refuses my counsel.

[Main square]
DATA: He denies the logic of my arguments and speaks of structures they have built.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Then try something else.
DATA: I have, sir.

[Main square]
DATA: In the last three hours and eight minutes, I have spoken to fifty six colonists. Ten of those refused to believe a threat exists. Twenty two favor staying and fighting the Sheliak. Sixteen prefer negotiation or

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Some form of passive resistance. Only eight were willing to consider evacuation. And of those eight
RIKER: Data, I can't help you. I don't know these people. I haven't talked to them. You have. Use that fancy

[Main square]
RIKER: Positronic brain of yours and carry out your mission.
DATA: Sir, if I do not succeed, how violent is the Sheliak reaction likely to be?

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: The treaty is the only thing that prevented them from eradicating the colony the moment they discovered it.

[Main square]
DATA: Ah.
RIKER: Ah is right, Data.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: The lives of fifteen thousand people are riding on you.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Now, are we progressing, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: About like you'd expect, sir.
PICARD: Splendid. Splendid. Carry on.
WESLEY: He wants the impossible.
LAFORGE: That's the short definition of Captain.

[Ready room]
TROI: In our dealings with other non-humanoid races there has been some point of reference. Not so with the Sheliak.
PICARD: But we must have something in common. We communicate.
TROI: Barely. They have learned several Federation languages, but theirs continues to elude us.
PICARD: Telepaths?
TROI: Attempted and failed. Actually, the fact that any alien race communicates with another is quite remarkable. We are stranded on a planet. We have no language in common, but I want to teach you mine. S'smarith. What did I just say?
PICARD: Cup? Glass?
TROI: Are you sure? I may have meant liquid, clear, brown, hot. We conceptualize the universe in relatively the same way.
PICARD: Point taken.
TROI: In your talks, you must be extremely accurate. The treaty is five hundred thousand words. The length was to accommodate the Sheliak. They consider our language irrational, and demanded this level of complexity to avoid any future misunderstandings.
RIKER: Captain, we have the vessel carrying the Sheliak colonists on visual.
PICARD: On my way. So, it begins.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I take it the Sheliak just hung up on us again.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go to yellow alert. Shields up.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Riker, put us nose to nose with the Sheliak ship. Any move she makes, match it.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, hailing frequency.
WORF: Open. They are not responding.
PICARD: They don't have to answer. They just have to listen. Sheliak vessel, you will have to get past me to get at the colony on Tau Cygna Five.
WORF: No response.
PICARD: Close channel. And get me that treaty. They've been beating us over the head with it for three days. Let's see if we can't find something in it that we can turn to our own advantage.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come. Welcome home, Mister Data. Well done.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: The good doctor was kind enough to provide me with a recording of your concert. Your performance shows feeling.
DATA: As I have recently reminded others, sir, I have no feeling.
PICARD: It's hard to believe. Your playing is quite beautiful.
DATA: Strictly speaking, sir, it is not my playing. It is a precise imitation of the techniques of Jascha Heifetz and Trenka Bronken.
PICARD: Is there nothing of Data in what I'm hearing? You see, you chose the violinists. Heifetz and Bronken have radically different styles, different techniques, yet you combined them successfully.
DATA: I suppose I have learned to be creative, sir, when necessary.
PICARD: Mister Data, I look forward to your next concert.

[Laboratory]
RIKER: Riker to Ensign Crusher.
WESLEY: Go ahead.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Forget to set your alarm, Wesley?
WESLEY: Yes, sir.

[Laboratory]
WESLEY: I'm very sorry. I'll be right there. this.
PICARD: Captain's log, Stardate 43125.8. We have entered a spectacular binary star system in the Kavis Alpha sector on a most critical mission of astro-physical research. Our eminent guest, Doctor Paul Stubbs, will attempt to study the decay of neutronium expelled at relativistic speeds by a massive stellar explosion which will occur here in a matter of hours.

[Bridge]
DATA: Five minutes to launch site.
PICARD: Stabilize.
WESLEY: The ship isn't responding, sir.
PICARD: Engineering.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Report, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Checking for failure of inertial dampeners. Instruments say they're working

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, we're heading straight into the path of that stellar matter.
PICARD: Shields up.
WORF: Negative. The shields will not respond.
DATA: Thirty seconds to impact, sir.
PICARD: Manual override on shields.
WORF: Shields are rising.
RIKER: Reset dampeners.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Dampeners not responding.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Unable to reset.
PICARD: Reverse impulse engines.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Initiating reverse sequence, now.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We're analyzing the engineering systems data, Captain. So far we're showing nothing unusual

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: In the computer log for that time period.
PICARD: Run a level one diagnostic series. Come. I want a computer that's one hundred percent to expedite Doctor Stubbs' experiment. As well as the food slots in Sickbay. Picard out.
CRUSHER: Which seem to be working again, for the moment anyway.
PICARD: What can I do for you, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, how would you feel if you were a seventeen year old and the only Starfleet Officer whose mother was on board?
PICARD: Inhibited, I suppose. But then, I'm not Wesley. And if you are concerned about him, I see no evidence that there is a problem.
CRUSHER: I know, but, in a funny kind of way, that's exactly my point. We talk. We smile. It's almost too polite.
PICARD: Beverly, isn't it just a matter of time? I know how difficult it was for you being away.
CRUSHER: Tell me about him.
PICARD: Well, he's becoming a very fine officer. He works as hard as any member of the crew. Riker says his studies are on line.
CRUSHER: No. Tell me about him.
PICARD: He's his father's son. Honest, trusting, strong.
CRUSHER: Does he have many friends? Has he ever been in love? Jean-Luc, I'm worried. He's come so far, so fast, And since I've been back, I don't feel
PICARD: His dependence. Beverly, look, he's seventeen years old.
CRUSHER: What were you doing when you were seventeen?
PICARD: Probably getting into more trouble than Wesley, I can assure you.
CRUSHER: So was I. Isn't that what seventeen's supposed to be?

[Ten forward]
WESLEY: Guinan! I didn't think anyone would be here.
GUINAN: I've never been any good at being confined to quarters, as my husbands will attest to. What's that?
WESLEY: I'm just setting traps.
GUINAN: I run a clean place.
WESLEY: I know. It's not that. It's. I'm scared, Guinan. I think that everything that's been going wrong might be my fault.
GUINAN: You want to tell me about it?
WESLEY: I've been working on my final project for Advanced Genetics. It's on nanotechnology. I've been studying the nanites we have in the Sickbay genetic supplies. They're these little tiny robots with gigabytes of mechanical computer memory. They're designed to enter living cells and conduct repairs. They're supposed to remain confined to the lab.
GUINAN: Are you saying there are nanites loose?
WESLEY: Two of them, that's all. I just wanted to see how they would interact and function in tandem. You see, in my experiment, I had proposed a theory that by working together they could combine their skills and increase their usefulness. It was working.
GUINAN: So you made better nanites.
WESLEY: I was pulling an all-nighter to collect my final data. I fell asleep. And when I woke up I saw the container had been left open. It's just a science project.
GUINAN: You know, a doctor friend once said the same thing to me. Frankenstein was his name.
WESLEY: They're really harmless. I mean, they're equipped with only the most basic skills. It's almost impossible they could be responsible
GUINAN: Almost.
CRUSHER: Doctor Crusher to Wesley Crusher.
WESLEY: Go ahead.
CRUSHER: I stopped by your quarters, Wes. I assumed you'd be there, since you're off duty.
WESLEY: I know. I just I had some things to do
CRUSHER: Orders are orders, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: On my way. You won't tell anybody, will you? I know. I will. If it's true.
GUINAN: Wes, do you think you're going to get a good grade?
WESLEY: I always get an A.
GUINAN: So did Doctor Frankenstein.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. Our computer core has clearly been tampered with and yet there is no sign of a breach of security on board. We have engines back and will attempt to complete our mission, but without a reliable computer, Doctor Stubbs' experiment is in serious jeopardy.

[Laboratory]
CRUSHER: We have to talk. You really look like you could use some rest, Wesley.
WESLEY: I know. It's okay. Really.
CRUSHER: No, it's not okay. Really.
WESLEY: Look, mom, I'm just checking some traps that I set to see if I can find out what's happening to the Enterprise.
CRUSHER: On someone's orders?
WESLEY: We're running out of time for Doctor Stubbs.
CRUSHER: You can't put everything on your shoulders, Wesley. Even when you're off duty, you're on duty.
WESLEY: Mom, you don't understand.
CRUSHER: You are a seventeen year old boy.
WESLEY: I'm also an acting officer and I have responsibilities.
CRUSHER: I'm beginning to think maybe you've taken on too many responsibilities.
WESLEY: Look, I have done everything that everyone has asked of me and more. And how can you know? You haven't even been here.
CRUSHER: I'm here now, Wesley. Come on, I'll help you. What are you looking for? Wesley?
WESLEY: I think I've made a horrible mistake.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I can't get the story of Gulliver out of my head. Overpowered by Lilliputians. How long do we have to wait?
RIKER: We can continue to bypass the part of the computer that's affected, but if the nanites are spreading through the whole the ship.
PICARD: Do you smell a change? What?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Commander Riker. On my signal, we will gamma-irradiate all computer systems throughout the Enterprise. Let's put an end to this conflict.
RIKER: Worf, prepare to activate gamma pulse generators.
WORF: Electromagnetic scanners ready, Captain.
DATA: Captain. I have established contact.
DATA: As we continue, Captain, they are virtually learning the concept of communication. Each new generation is making modifications.
PICARD: Can we actually talk to them yet?
DATA: I believe it is worth an attempt. sir.
PICARD: Commander Riker, bring Doctor Stubbs to the Bridge.

[Bridge]
DATA: Ten seconds to stellar blast, sir.
WESLEY: We're at forty million kilometers from the neutron star, sir.
RIKER: Hold your position.
PICARD: Doctor?

[Ten forward]
CRUSHER: Do you have any children, Guinan?
GUINAN: A lot.
CRUSHER: Ever have any trouble relating to them?
GUINAN: Just one.
CRUSHER: One?
GUINAN: Wouldn't listen to anybody.
CRUSHER: Well, they all go through that.
GUINAN: Not in a species of listeners.
CRUSHER: Did he grow out of it?
GUINAN: It took several hundred years but I managed to bring him around.
CRUSHER: How?
GUINAN: A mother shapes her child in ways she doesn't even realize. Sometimes just by listening.
GUINAN: Cute couple.
CRUSHER: See? Now that is healthy for a boy his age. I mean that as a doctor, not as just a mother. It is so good to see him having fun for a change, with an attractive young woman who obviously looks at him with extraordinary affection. What do you know about this girl?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Shields up, maximum strength.
WORF: Shields up. Sensors do not indicate the presence of any armed space vehicles operating in the Rana system.
PICARD: They could be cloaked, or otherwise shielded. Mister Crusher, bring us in well clear of the planet's three moons.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
DATA: Captain, we are not receiving Rana Four's call sign.
RIKER: Open a frequency to Colony Operations.
DATA: No response. Rana Four is emissions quiet.
TROI: Captain, there are eleven thousand inhabitants in this colony. At this range, I should be sensing something. I'm not.
PICARD: Mister Data, put the planet on the main viewer. Magnify.
CRUSHER: My God!
RIKER: Helm, put us in high equatorial orbit. Scan for survivors.
CRUSHER: Survivors? Down there?
DATA: Sensors are scanning ninety degrees of longitude as we orbit. I am detecting no bodies of water, no vegetation, no artificial structures.
WORF: Life form readings are negative.
TROI: Could the colonists have escaped?
DATA: That is highly unlikely. Rana Four possessed no interstellar spacecraft.
RIKER: Who would cause devastation on that order?
WESLEY: Hold it. Captain, I've got something here. Thirty seven degrees north and sixty two degrees east. It's a structure.
PICARD: Life?
WORF: Two life forms, possibly human.
PICARD: Put that area on the main viewer. Magnify.
DATA: The structure is located at the center of the vegetation.
RIKER: An entire planet obliterated except for a few acres of trees and grass and one building?
CRUSHER: It must be some kind of illusion.
DATA: Negative. It is as you see it.
PICARD: Number One, I think you had better see who's at home.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: If they're the only survivors of a nuclear holocaust, they can't be in very good shape.
PICARD: I understand. Counselor?
TROI: What I sense of them is human.
PICARD: And something else?
TROI: It's difficult to explain. I feel there's something different about these two people. I'm sorry. I can't be clearer than that.
RIKER: We're ready.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Good luck, Number One.
RIKER: Energize.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Are they collaborators? Did they provide the colony's assailants with something that abetted the total destruction of Rana Four in order to protect their own lives?
CRUSHER: What could two botanists in their eighties possess that could possibly aid whoever attacked the planet?
PICARD: We don't know what the enemy needed, Doctor. Love? Fear? Hope?
LAFORGE: Maybe they're being held hostage in some fashion?
CRUSHER: Nothing in the tricorder readings indicated they were under that kind of stress.
PICARD: Counselor? Counselor Troi?
TROI: I'm sorry. I don't sense them well enough.
PICARD: Number One, you say the couple is incapable of sustaining themselves?
RIKER: There's a fusion reactor in the house, good for another five years of power. But their water table is tainted. They have nothing to feed themselves except for a small garden.
PICARD: They won't come to the ship?
RIKER: They were adamant.
PICARD: We'll do all that we can to help them but in the meantime I want them kept under surveillance.
TROI: I'm sorry, I'm not feeling very well. I'd like to go to my quarters.
PICARD: By all means.
CRUSHER: Is there anything I can do?

[Corridor]
WORF: Captain, a search of the Ranian system has determined that the hostile force that attacked this planet is no longer present.
PICARD: I remember a Starfleet admiral once saying the same thing about some renegade Andorians in the Triangulum system. It turns out that they had dismantled their ship and hidden it.
WORF: Those Andorians did not have to contend with someone of my thoroughness. I will stake my reputation.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Don't listen. Think of something else. Stop! Please, stop!
TROI: Yes?
PICARD: I was concerned. I came to see if I could be of any help.
TROI: I'm fine. There's nothing wrong. I'm just tired, that's all.
PICARD: Now, I may not have your gifts at reading emotions, Counselor, but I can tell when someone is in pain and hiding it.
TROI: It's so silly. I hear music. In my mind. Music that won't stop.
PICARD: Perhaps it's a symptom of fatigue. We've all been inflicted one time or another with that melody that won't go away.
TROI: No, it's deeper than that. The song doesn't stops for an instant. It plays in perfect clarity from beginning to end over and over again. I don't even know what song it is. I never heard it before.
PICARD: When did this start?
TROI: A few hours ago, while the away team was on the surface. I was trying to, I was thinking of Rishon and Kevin.
PICARD: Rishon and Kevin? And?
TROI: I can't explain it, Captain. They're elusive. They're, I'm sorry
PICARD: Well, try and rest. Take the necessary sleep inducements if you have to.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Data, give us a visual. Magnification factor fifty.
WESLEY: Look at the size of that!
PICARD: Now where did that come from?
RIKER: Apparently it was riding a Lagrange point, hiding behind Rana Four's furthest moon.
DATA: Our vehicle classification index can put no identity to it. Its design is completely foreign.
RIKER: But that's our boy. Approximately five times our mass and carrying enough armament to pulverize a planet.
PICARD: Lieutenant?
WORF: I, er, cannot explain this, Captain.
RIKER: It's heading for the planet.
PICARD: Hailing frequencies.
WORF: Open.
PICARD: Mister Data, ask them to identify themselves and match our orbit.
DATA: They have received the message, Captain, but are ignoring it.
PICARD: Maximum shields, ready all weapon systems.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: It's assuming an attack posture. Don't be surprised if
WORF: The vessel is firing jacketed streams of positrons and antiprotons. Equivalent firepower, forty megawatts. Shields are holding. Again, forty megawatts. No damage.
RIKER: If that's the best they can do, this should last about five minutes.
PICARD: Mister Worf, let's raise our voice a little. Fire phasers. Just a warning shot. Mister Data, invite them to stand to.
DATA: The vessel has assumed a position outside of the Rana system, and it is rapidly increasing velocity.
PICARD: Helm, initiate pursuit.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. The vessel has reached warp two and continues on a steady acceleration curve. We're not getting any closer, Commander.
RIKER: Give us a superior curve, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Warp three. Warp four. The warship continues to match our curve simultaneously point for point. Warp four point five. Warp five. Warp five point five.
RIKER: Riker to La Forge. Give us everything you can to close the gap, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I'll get you to nine point three seven in fifteen seconds.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Warp eight point five. Warp nine. The warship continues to match our acceleration curve perfectly.
PICARD: Number One, I have the distinct impression that we're being toyed with. Take us back to Rana Four.
RIKER: Back?
PICARD: We have unfinished business there. I need to have a talk with those two people. You have the Bridge.
RIKER: Reduce speed. Bring us around on a return course. This one's getting away.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Stop! Stop! Please, I'll do anything! Make it stop!
CRUSHER: Please. I'm here to help.
TROI: It's so loud! It's getting louder! Please, I can't stand it. Make it stop!
CRUSHER: Move her to the bed.
CRUSHER: This will help you relax.
TROI: I hear it. It's still there! It's so loud!
CRUSHER: Take her to Sickbay.
TROI: No, I want to stay in my quarters.
CRUSHER: I can get you to sleep.
TROI: I don't want to sleep. The music will only follow me.
CRUSHER: I can induce delta sleep. Lock out even your deepest dreams.
TROI: It's not a dream. It's real.

[Troi's quarters]
CRUSHER: I don't understand it. I've inhibited almost all the activity of the neocortex and she continues to behave as if she's hearing the music. We're going to have to shield her from all outside stimuli by inducing coma.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Number of casualties?
CRUSHER: Sixty-six.
PICARD: Fatalities?
CRUSHER: None. We've been able to treat everyone.

[Troi's quarters]
PICARD: Can you help her?
CRUSHER: I've done everything I can. I don't understand the nature of this music she says she's hearing, or where it's coming from.
PICARD: Could it be telepathic?
CRUSHER: Yes. But I'm not the expert at determining that.
PICARD: They're blocking her sensitivity. They're stopping her from seeing the truth.
CRUSHER: Who's stopping her?
PICARD: Kevin and Rishon.
CRUSHER: What?
PICARD: They wanted us to leave Rana and that's exactly what we're doing. Picard to Bridge.
RIKER: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Number One, I want you to maintain this course for another hour

[Bridge]
PICARD: And then turn the Enterprise around and take it back to Rana Four.
RIKER: We still won't have our shields restored by then.

[Troi's quarters]
PICARD: Take it back, Number One, and this time nothing is going to lure us away.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, sensors indicate no spacecraft in the vicinity of Rana Four. But, Captain
PICARD: Forget your previous error, Mister Worf. There is no way you could have prevented it.
DATA: Captain, the Uxbridge house is coming into transporter range.
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you accompany me to the Transporter Room? You have the Bridge, Number One.
RIKER: Captain, I think you should reconsider. The warship has come after us twice. It could come back.
PICARD: I disagree, Number One. I don't think it knows we're here. I think it believes that it has run us off for good. However, that will all change once I'm back on board.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: It's protecting Kevin and Rishon. It responds to their wishes. Indirectly or directly, I'm not sure, but that's what I'm going to put to the test.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, an update, please.
RIKER: Little change, Captain. Our shields are still inoperable. We have partial control of our weapons, and I've doubled the repair crews.
DATA: The warship is approaching from high orbit. It is very close three hundred thousand kilometers distant.
RIKER: How is that possible? Is something wrong with the sensors?
PICARD: That's no concern, Number One. It's here and it's precisely on schedule.
DATA: The vessel has altered its course to a direct intercept with the Enterprise.
RIKER: Worf, arm phasers and photon torpedoes. Prepare to fire.
PICARD: Belay those orders, Mister Worf.
DATA: The vessel is now within twenty thousand kilometers of the Enterprise and closing.
PICARD: Let it come, let it come. Activate the main viewer.
WORF: Evasive action, sir?
PICARD: The Enterprise will hold its position, Mister Worf.
WORF: Weapons, sir?
PICARD: On my orders, not before.
DATA: The vessel is entering a low orbit around Rana Four. It appears it is preparing to fire at the planet, Captain.
PICARD: Understood.
DATA: My calculations indicate that its target is the house of Kevin and Rishon Uxbridge.
PICARD: There will be no interference from us, Mister Data.
WORF: The house has been obliterated.
PICARD: Scan for survivors.
WORF: There are no survivors.
PICARD: Mister Worf, prepare a photon torpedo. Fire at the enemy vessel when ready.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Number One, what reason does the Enterprise have for remaining at Rana?
RIKER: The unknown vessel has been destroyed. The Uxbridges have been destroyed. There's no reason for the Enterprise to remain.
PICARD: Good. Helm, move us into a higher orbit so that we may keep the surface of the planet under surveillance.
WESLEY: Aye, sir. But, Captain, what are we watching for?
PICARD: Anything. Everything. I'll be in my Ready room if I'm needed. That will be all for now.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Captain, may I speak with you?
PICARD: It's my pleasure, Number One.
RIKER: We've been observing the planet very carefully for three hours. We've seen nothing. I have the feeling you're waiting for something to happen.
PICARD: Your Captain is acting on an assumption, Will, and I'm not sure what the result will be, or even that my assumption is correct. We found two people alive in a house on a devastated planet. But there was only one survivor of the war on Rana Four.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Helm, break orbit. Full impulse.
PICARD: Captain's log, Stardate 43153.7. We are departing the Rana system for Starbase One Three Three. We leave behind a being of extraordinary power and conscience. I am not certain if he should be praised or condemned. Only that he should be left alone.

[Duck blind]
LAFORGE: The framework's still charged, so watch it.

[Duck blind]
CRUSHER: Enterprise, beam Martinez and his patient directly to Sickbay.
DATA: Commander.

[Hillside]
RIKER: Doctor, be careful.
CRUSHER: I've got to get down there.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Enterprise. Medical emergency. Two to beam directly to Sickbay.
OGAWA: Aye, Doctor.

[Duck blind]
LAFORGE: That should do it.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: Barron is stable, but Warren is still critical.
RIKER: Palmer is missing. A scan of the planet shows Mintakan life forms only, no humans. However
DATA: The area around the duck blind exhibits Karst topography. Sinkholes, underground rivers, and caverns. And the rock strata contain a high concentration of thallium compounds which may be obstructing our sensor beams.
PICARD: So if Palmer, in his delirium, fled into a cave, we may be unable to detect his life signs?
DATA: Correct, sir.
CRUSHER: Captain, if he is still alive, he needs medical attention. We must send an away team to locate him.
TROI: But our presence must not interfere with the cultural development of the Mintakans.
PICARD: Agreed. Further contamination must be prevented.
RIKER: I have a suggestion. First officer's log, Stardate 43174.2. Counselor Troi and I are beaming down to Mintaka Three to locate Doctor Palmer and to determine the extent of the cultural contamination. Doctor Crusher has temporarily altered our features and skin color. She's also implanted subcutaneous communicators so that any transmissions we receive will be inaudible to the Mintakans.

[Plain]
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Do you hear me?
DATA: Perfectly, Commander. I will be monitoring you continuously.
TROI: Mintakan emotions are quite interesting. Like the Vulcans, they have highly ordered minds. A very sensible people. For example, Mintakan women precede their mates. It's a signal to other women.
RIKER: This man's taken, get your own?
TROI: Not precisely. More like, if you want his services, I'm the one you have to negotiate with.
RIKER: What kind of services?
TROI: All kinds.
RIKER: They are a sensible race.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: With the contamination?
RIKER: It's worse than we suspected.

[Assembly hall]
RIKER: The Mintakans are beginning to believe in a god

[Assembly hall]
PICARD: Is there any chance of your freeing Palmer and transporting up unseen?
RIKER: We can try.
PICARD: Try hard.

[Assembly hall]
RIKER: Forgive me, friend, but the stranger must be set free.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: Data, has Counselor Troi beamed up?
DATA: Negative, Commander. Sensors show she's in the midst of a group of Mintakans.
RIKER: Damn.

[Assembly hall]
DATA: Counselor, sensors indicate five Mintakans in your immediate vicinity. Four are motionless. The fifth is eight meters away, proceeding south. Is Nuria one of these five?
TROI: Mmm hmm.

[Bridge]
DATA: Was that intended to be an affirmative?
RIKER: Yes, Data, it was.
DATA: Is Nuria the closest of the five?
TROI: Uh un.
RIKER: Negative.

[Assembly hall]
DATA: Is Nuria the one in motion?
TROI: Mmm hmm.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Lock sensors on Nuria.
DATA: Locked on. We can beam Nuria aboard at will.
PICARD: Data, when sensors indicate she's alone, beam her directly to transporter room one.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, away team reporting in. Lieutenant Worf standing by.
RIKER: This is Riker. Go ahead, Lieutenant.
WORF: The archeologists have identified the markings in these caverns. This planet was apparently once home to a race known as the Koinonians.
PICARD: What do we know about them, Data?
DATA: The Koinonians were an intelligent culture which became embroiled in a war that lasted for several generations. Our best evidence indicates they destroyed themselves.
WORF: We have completed our survey of the third tunnel and will proceed into the ceremonial chamber.
RIKER: Affirmative. Enterprise out.
PICARD: Destroyed themselves, Data?
DATA: According to historical records. This will be the first opportunity for a Federation team
TROI: Captain! Beam them up quickly!
WORF: Captain. Emergency beam up! Enterprise, emergency! Severe injuries.
PICARD: Transporter Room!
O'BRIEN: I've got them, Captain.
PICARD: Beam them straight to Sickbay. Doctor Crusher, incoming wounded.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Away Team is aboard, Captain.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: One dead on arrival. Captain's Log, stardate 43198.7. The Enterprise remains in standard orbit while we investigate the tragedy which has struck the away team. Lieutenant Marla Aster, ship's archeologist, has been killed in what should have been a routine mission. Whatever the explanation, it will not bring back a valued and trusted officer.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Lieutenant?
WORF: We had completed our investigation of the third tunnel. Our scans had indicated no weapons or traps of any kind. Lieutenant Aster was three meters behind me. An explosive device went off. There was no warning. Lieutenant Aster bore the full brunt of the detonation.
TROI: Lieutenant Aster is survived by a son, Jeremy. Twelve years old. He's aboard the Enterprise, sir.
PICARD: And his father?
TROI: He's also deceased. His only living relatives are an aunt and uncle residing on Earth.
PICARD: Where is he now?
TROI: In class. I've alerted the teacher to expect us.
WORF: Captain. I must accompany you. I commanded the away team.
PICARD: I appreciate your offer, Lieutenant, but this is my responsibility.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Picard to Bridge.
RIKER: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Assign Commander La Forge to lead another away team to the dig site. I want to know why this happened.
RIKER: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: I will be with Counselor Troi

[Bridge]
PICARD: And young Jeremy Aster.
RIKER: I understand. Riker out.
WESLEY: He had to do the same thing for me.
RIKER: Do you know Jeremy well?
WESLEY: But I know this is going to be like for him.
RIKER: That's part of life in Starfleet, Wesley.
WESLEY: I know. They're very careful to prepare us for anything, but still
RIKER: I know.
WESLEY: How do you get used to it? Telling them?
RIKER: You hope you never do.

[Turbolift]
TROI: I sense the weight of this duty on you, Captain.
PICARD: I really wonder. Halt. I've always believed that carrying children on a starship is a very questionable policy. Serving on a starship means accepting certain risks, certain dangers. Did Jeremy Aster make that choice?
TROI: Death and loss are an integral part of life everywhere. Leaving him on Earth would not have protected him.
PICARD: No, but Earth isn't likely to be ordered to the Neutral Zone, or to repel a Romulan attack, It was my command which sent his mother to her death. She understood her mission and my duty. Will he?
TROI: In time, and with help. Wesley Crusher does. He does. And so will Jeremy.
PICARD: Resume.

[Ten forward]
DATA: Excuse me, sir. Am I intruding?
RIKER: No, sit down.
DATA: How well did you know Lieutenant Aster?
RIKER: We spent some time together. Not very well. How well did you know her?
DATA: Why do you ask?
RIKER: Well, you just asked me.
DATA: But why do you ask the question? Since her death, I have been asked several times to define how well I knew Lieutenant Aster. And I heard you ask Wesley on the Bridge how well he knew Jeremy. Does the question of familiarity have some bearing on death?
RIKER: Do you remember how we all felt when Tasha died?
DATA: I do not sense the same feelings of absence that I associate with Lieutenant Yar, although I cannot say precisely why.
RIKER: Just human nature, Data.
DATA: Human nature, sir?
RIKER: We feel a loss more intensely when it's a friend.
DATA: But should not the feelings run as deep regardless of who has died?
RIKER: Maybe they should, Data. Maybe if we felt the loss of any life as keenly as we felt the death of those close to us, human history would be a lot less bloody.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Riker
RIKER: You're back, Geordi
LAFORGE: Yes, sir, and we've brought back a souvenir.

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: There are five more just like them. All identical to the one that killed Lieutenant Aster.
DATA: They employ a subspace proximity detonator. A normal tricorder would never detect it.
PICARD: How long would you say they've been there, Data?
DATA: It comes from the time of the Koinonian Wars, sir.
RIKER: Did you find them all, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Yeah, but, well, it seemed like they were left there to be found.
PICARD: Left by whom? There are no indications of life on this planet.
LAFORGE: I don't know, Captain, but it was pretty obvious that they'd been recently pulled out of the ground and defused.

[Room]
WORF: I have made my report to the Captain.
TROI: I'm more interested in how you feel about what happened. I sense great anger.
WORF: I cannot seek revenge against an enemy who's turned to dust centuries ago. Her death was senseless. The last victim of a forgotten war.
TROI: Go on.
WORF: There's nothing more to be said.
TROI: A person died under your command. It may happen again. If you can't learn to release the anger and the guilt, to talk about it
WORF: A leader must stand alone. As Captain Picard does.
TROI: Captain Picard talks to me.
WORF: Then may I seek your counsel about my plan to make the R'uustai with the boy.
TROI: The Bonding.
WORF: It is my right.
TROI: It's very generous, Worf, but he's not a Klingon child. He has different sensibilities.
WORF: He is an orphan. I am an orphan. He will understand.
TROI: Right now, there isn't much he can understand. He's holding all his feelings inside. Children often feel they must be true to the memory of a lost parent. If you offer affection to them too soon they can feel guilty returning that affection. As if they're betraying the love of the parent.
WORF: I only wish to honor his mother.
TROI: I know. And I understand this means a great deal to you. But you must be prepared. He's very angry too, but his anger is deep inside him. When he touches it, it will strike out in many directions, including yours. Be with him. Talk to him. But don't rush this. When he's ready, we'll know.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come. Counselor, how's the boy?
TROI: He's being very brave.
PICARD: Good.
TROI: No, he has to get past brave. He's very angry and he has to learn how to express that anger before he can really say goodbye to his mother.
PICARD: How can we help?
TROI: Well, I've asked Beverly if we might get Wesley to talk to Jeremy about his father's death. The one unusual element is Worf.
PICARD: Oh?
TROI: In many ways he's suffering as badly as the boy. He wishes to involve Jeremy in a Klingon ceremony called R'uustai, the Bonding
PICARD: I know of that. Perhaps it will be helpful to both of them.
TROI: I don't think Jeremy's ready to accept Worf right now. Perhaps later, but it will have to be handled most delicately.
PICARD: As you always do. I break the unpleasant news and there my responsibility ends, but you, you have to stay with them through the entire grieving process.
TROI: We deal with our pain in many different ways, but over the years I've discovered it is in our joy that the uniqueness of each individual is revealed. If I can help a person back to a state of joy, well, my role has its rewards.
RIKER: Captain, we're picking up an energy field on the planet surface.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Location?
RIKER: Two kilometers north of the away team's beam-down point.
PICARD: Indeed? Full scan.
DATA: Inconclusive, Captain.
TROI: Sir, I', sensing a presence on the planet. Very vague.
PICARD: Life form?
TROI: I can't be sure. The emotions of the crew are particularly strong right now. It's difficult to filter them out.
PICARD: Data, scan analysis on main viewer.

[Crusher's office]
WESLEY: Hi.
CRUSHER: Hi. Troi stopped by a little while ago. She was wondering if you might be willing to talk to Jeremy Aster at some point.
WESLEY: Me? What for?
CRUSHER: About your Dad.
WESLEY: What am I going to tell him?
CRUSHER: It would help him to talk with someone who's been through this. We had each other, Wes. He doesn't have anyone to lean on right now. And he might be more comfortable talking to someone who's not much older than he is.
WESLEY: Okay, I'll think about it.
CRUSHER: Okay.
WESLEY: Do you ever think about him, Mom?
CRUSHER: Your father? Sure I do.
WESLEY: Sometimes I can't even remember what his face looks like. It scares me.
CRUSHER: It happens to all of us, Wes. Sometimes I can't get his face out of my mind.
WESLEY: Today, today it's like I can see it all as clearly as if it were yesterday. I can remember the way Dad looked when he hugged me goodbye. Captain Picard's eyes when he came to tell us

[Bridge]
RIKER: Data, run comparison of known phenomena.
DATA: The pattern has no exact match in Federation records, sir.
PICARD: Is it alive?
DATA: A possibility.
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm getting an unusual magnetic flux reading from the anti-matter containment pods.
TROI: My God.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: All systems are functioning normally. Still, there's this fluctuation in the containment field. I can't account for it.
RIKER: Data, is this possibly related to the energy fields on the planet?
TROI: Captain
DATA: There is a beam of highly charged particles emanating from the planet, sir, but I cannot pinpoint the location yet.
TROI: Captain, there's a presence on the Enterprise.
PICARD: An alien presence?
DATA: No intruder noted by the sensors, sir.
TROI: There is a presence.
RIKER: Security, all decks yellow alert. Possible intruder.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go ahead.
WORF: Lieutenant Aster is in her quarters.
RIKER: Repeat, Worf?

[Jeremy's quarters]
WORF: Lieutenant Aster is here. In her quarters with the boy.
PICARD: Do not provoke her

[Bridge]
PICARD: Or interfere in any way until I arrive. Picard out. Number One, have Security moving that way but tell them to keep their distance. You have the Bridge. Counselor.

[Turbolift]
WORF: Captain, I believe we're headed for transporter room three.
PICARD: We're on our way.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Is the boy in any danger?
TROI: I don't think so. She seems to want to help him.
PICARD: Help him?

[Aster home]
TROI: By easing his pain. She's very confused by our resistance, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Troi, would it be wise to remove Jeremy from his cabin?
TROI: He doesn't want to leave. I would not recommend taking him

[Bridge]
TROI: By force.
RIKER: She offers him everything. All we offer is the cold reality of his mother's death.
CRUSHER: What would you choose? If somebody came along and offered to give you back your mother, father or husband, would any of us say no so easily?
PICARD: Counselor, stay with them in Jeremy's quarters.

[Aster home]
PICARD: We'll try and put an end to this from here.
TROI: Understood.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data, can you determine for certain that the energy source from the planet is powering this creation?
DATA: The beam from the planet is clearly tapping into the ship's anti-matter, Captain.
LAFORGE: I'd say they're running the manifestation off our own energy.
PICARD: So there are limits to her power.
RIKER: She needs the transporter to get the boy back.
PICARD: So how do we cut the puppet's strings?
LAFORGE: Increasing the shield harmonics to match our own antimatter containment fields will probably sever the beam.
PICARD: Proceed.
RIKER: Deanna, stand by.
TROI: Standing by.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Anti-matter containment pods reading nominal.
DATA: The shield has severed the beam, sir. Captain, the energy field.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, take us out of here.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Alien intruder, transporter room three. Security alert. Alien

[Bridge]
WORF: Security to transporter room three.
PICARD: Commander La Forge, Mister Worf, come with me. Number One, you have the Bridge.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Bridge, seal off deck eight, corridors A and B.

[Bridge]
DATA: Engaging force fields, Captain. Transporters down.

[Transporter room]
WORF: Energy force has left transporter room three. Security alert, all decks.

[Bridge]
RIKER: La Forge, the intruder may try to reinstate

[Engineering]
RIKER: Transporter power.
LAFORGE: Understood, Commander.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: It's looking over everything, Commander, going to school. Let's just hope it doesn't blow us to kingdom come while it's figuring out how to blow us to kingdom come.

[Transporter room]
WORF: Power's back in transporter room three.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Bypassing the manual override. Shutting it down.

[Bridge]
WORF: Transporter is down again.
RIKER: Keep it down, Geordi, for as long as you can.
LAFORGE: Understood, Commander.

[Ten forward]
WESLEY: This was the final battle, wasn't it?
DATA: Neither side intended Orelious Nine to be the decisive conflict.
WESLEY: There's not much left, is there.
DATA: The destruction is remarkable considering the primitive weapons of the period.
WESLEY: Uh, oh.
DATA: I beg your pardon, Wesley?
WESLEY: Geordi had a big date with Christy tonight. He spent days putting together the perfect program. Looks like it ended kind of early.
DATA: Uh, oh.
RIKER: Commander Data to the Bridge immediately.
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We're picking up a signal, coordinates two one one mark six one.
PICARD: It would seen to be an ancient interplanetary code. Mister Data?
DATA: Confirmed, sir.
RIKER: Survivors on Orelious Nine after all this time? Not possible.
PICARD: Well, hardly possible, Number One. Lay in a course to the source of the signal.
DATA: Approaching the source, Captain.
PICARD: Put it on the viewer.
WORF: A Promellian battle cruiser?
PICARD: With its Lang-cycle fusion engines still intact.
DATA: Sensors indicate no life signs aboard, Captain.
PICARD: I should hope not, Mister Data. That ship belongs in a museum. I'm afraid we're a little late. That call for help was probably initiated over a thousand years ago.
PICARD: Captain's log, Stardate 43205.6. We have arrived at Orelious Nine, to chart the battle in which the Menthars and Promellians fought to their mutual extinction. Among the ruins we have found a relic, a Promellian battle cruiser that has withstood the centuries.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Indulge me, Number One.
RIKER: I would prefer it if Lieutenant Worf and I were able to a security sweep of the ship first.
PICARD: No. Captain's prerogative. This one's mine. We have examined every conceivable risk.
RIKER: The risks on a ship this old and fragile are inconceivable, Captain.
PICARD: Ghosts, perhaps? Number One, have you never dreamed of climbing inside the bottle?
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: The ship in the bottle. Model air ships. I used to build them when I was a child. My God, I bet I had a Promellian battle cruiser too.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Ready to beam down to the vessel?
O'BRIEN: Locked on to the main bridge, Captain.
RIKER: You're certain about the atmospheric conditions, Data ?
DATA: There is adequate oxygen for life support, Commander.
PICARD: It is exactly as they left it, Number One. In the bottle. The ship in the bottle. Good Lord, didn't anybody here build ships in bottles when they were boys?
WORF: I did not play with toys.
DATA: I was never a boy.
O'BRIEN: I did, sir.
PICARD: Thank you, Mister O'Brien. Proceed.
O'BRIEN: I did. I really did. Ships in bottles. Great fun.
RIKER: What's that?
O'BRIEN: I'm not sure. The secondary power bus may need adjusting.
RIKER: Keep me posted.

[Warship Bridge]
PICARD: Extraordinary.
WORF: Admirable. They died at their posts.
PICARD: Hmm. You'd expect the bridge layout of this era to be clumsy, awkward, but look at this. It's a model of simplicity. Elegant, functional. They built this craft for generations. And it worked.

[Ten forward]
LAFORGE: Don't you have anything stronger than this, Guinan?
GUINAN: Yes.
LAFORGE: Would it help?
GUINAN: No.
LAFORGE: Tell me something, Guinan. You're a woman, right?
GUINAN: Yes, I can tell you I'm a woman.
LAFORGE: What is it that you want in a man?
GUINAN: Me personally?
LAFORGE: As a woman. What's the first thing you look at?
GUINAN: His head.
LAFORGE: His mind. Of course.
GUINAN: No, his head. I'm attracted to bald men.
LAFORGE: Seriously?
GUINAN: Seriously.
LAFORGE: Why?
GUINAN: Maybe because a bald man was very kind to me once when I was hurting. Took care of me.
LAFORGE: I'd like to do that.
GUINAN: I take care of myself these days.
LAFORGE: I mean, take care of somebody. I just don't get it, Guinan. I can field strip a fusion reactor. I can realign a power transfer tunnel. Why can't I make anything work with a woman like Christi? It's like I don't know what to do, I don't know what to say.
GUINAN: You're doing fine with me.
LAFORGE: You're different.
GUINAN: No, you're different.
LAFORGE: But I'm not trying now.
GUINAN: That's my point.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What is it, Wes?
WESLEY: The main power returner is acting a little weird.
RIKER: Define weird.
WESLEY: I'm getting fluctuating waveguide readings.
RIKER: Run a maintenance sweep.
WESLEY: Right.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Thrilling. That was absolutely thrilling. And I was right, Number One. There were ghosts aboard that old ship. One of them actually spoke to us.
RIKER: A friendly one, I hope?
PICARD: My own counterpart. The captain's final message, praising his crew.
RIKER: I hope you'll be as thoughtful when the time comes.
PICARD: Mister Data, advise the Astral Five annex. This should be catalogd and scheduled for retrieval.
DATA: Aye, sir.
TROI: I'm sorry, Captain, it's just a rare pleasure to meet this side of your personality.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, set course for the original coordinates.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
DATA: Captain, we are experiencing a two percent drop in energy reserves. Compensating.
RIKER: We were having a few problems while
WORF: Readouts indicate we are being bombarded with a field of high intensity radiation.
RIKER: Shields up.
DATA: Captain, energy loss increasing to five percent.
PICARD: Yellow Alert.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: Energy loss increasing, sir.
PICARD: Mister Crusher. Reverse course. Full impulse power.
WESLEY: No response, sir.
PICARD: Increase speed to warp one.
WESLEY: Engines are not responding, Captain.
RIKER: Mister La Forge.

[Engineering]
RIKER: We need warp power now!
LAFORGE: Matter-anti matter mixture ratio settings at optimum balance Reaction sequence corresponding to specified norms. Magnetic plasma transfer to warp field generators per program specs. Commander, we should be going like a bat out of hell.

[Bridge]
DATA: Power loss now at twelve percent, Captain.
PICARD: Red alert.
WORF: Radiation intensity increasing.
LAFORGE: We'd better slow these engines down before we burn out the reaction chamber.
RIKER: Slow to idle, Geordi.
PICARD: Is it possible we've fallen into the same snare that killed them? A thousand year old booby trap?

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: With the engines idling, the energy loss has been limited, but our reserves will be depleted in less than three hours. We won't be able to hold our shields in place.
PICARD: Mister Worf, have you been able to identify the source of the radiation?
WORF: No, sir. The radiation field is so strong it interferes with our sensors.
PICARD: And no apparent explanation for the energy loss?
LAFORGE: No, sir.
RIKER: Is there anything in the history books, Data, that could give us a clue?
DATA: There are many fascinating records of Menthar battle strategy. They were exceptionally innovative. In fact, they were the first to use the Kavis Teke elusive maneuver as well as the passive lure stratagem that is comparable to Napoleon's
RIKER: Any mention of a situation like this?
DATA: No, sir.
RIKER: I recommend that I return to the cruiser with an away team.
LAFORGE: They didn't have much success with this problem, Commander.
RIKER: No, but they knew who their enemy was better than we do. They may have known what caused the trouble. They just didn't know how to get out.
PICARD: Agreed. Mister Worf, what would be the impact of lowering the shields long enough to get the away team out?
WORF: Negligible.
LAFORGE: Won't do much for our energy conservation, Captain.
PICARD: That's your job, Commander La Forge. Determine some way to keep the Enterprise up and running. Data, you join Commander Riker on the away team. Find out what happened on that ship.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: I recommend we evacuate and seal off all non-operational areas, and group the families and crew on the odd-numbered decks.
PICARD: Proceed.
CRUSHER: I'd also like to set up an assembly area for treating radiation symptoms in case it's needed.
PICARD: After the shields fall, how long before fatal exposure?
CRUSHER: Thirty minutes. After that, there is nothing that can be done.
RIKER: Away team to Enterprise. Captain, we may have found something. There's a file of memory

[Warship Bridge]
RIKER: Coils here.
DATA: They are identical to the coil we found earlier, Captain.
PICARD: The
PICARD: Captain's log, perhaps?
RIKER: That's what we were thinking.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, are they in working condition?
DATA: I believe so, sir.

[Warship Bridge]
DATA: We can enhance them through the image processor in the ship's computer.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Good. Return at once.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Well done, Mister La Forge.
RIKER: Geordi, can you give us enough power to get us out of here?

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]
LAFORGE: Sorry, Commander, we haven't addressed that one yet. First priority was to maintain the shields.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Acknowledged.
LAFORGE: We'll get to work on it right away, Sir.
PICARD: Pass my congratulations to the rest of your team.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]
LAFORGE: Thanks, Captain. We're all smiles down here.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain. We've been able to verify that these coils are the logs of the Promellian captain, but most of them have decayed and cannot be repaired.
RIKER: Can you get any playback at all?
DATA: On most, there are brief sections which may yield some information.
RIKER: Do the best you can, Data. Let's just hope we can get the section we need.
PICARD: Surely he must have logged the cause of the ship's death. What captain wouldn't?
RIKER: All found in an open locker? I don't think he was too concerned with security.

[Bridge]
PICARD: How many devices do we think we're dealing with, Mister Data?
DATA: To create this radiation field would take several hundred thousand, sir.
RIKER: They've been out there a long time, Data. There must have been some deterioration.
DATA: There is no way to precisely calculate that, Commander, but it is likely.
PICARD: Is there any indication of a weakness in a specific part of the field?
WORF: Nothing substantial, Captain.
PICARD: Of any kind.
WORF: There is a point one percent dip in the strength of the radiation field at two one mark eight by four two mark zero.
PICARD: I want that point one percent.
RIKER: I recommend we fire directional phasers at those coordinates.
LAFORGE: We won't be able to maintain energy reserves. We might even lose a few circuits in the new configuration.
PICARD: How critical will the losses be?
LAFORGE: Not enough to shut down our engines, but if we don't make it I don't know that I can hold the shields.
DATA: There is also the possibility that the phasers will supply the assimilators with what they need most. Energy.
PICARD: You know, I imagine a very similar discussion taking place on our neighbor ship over a thousand years ago. Let's hope our decisions are more successful than theirs were. Mister La Forge, I want you to return to Engineering and continue with your efforts without delay. Mister Worf, prepare the phasers.
WORF: Phasers locked on coordinates.
PICARD: Fire.
RIKER: Nothing.
WORF: Radiation levels increasing. Eight percent. Ten percent.
DATA: Energy reserves are dropping rapidly, sir.
PICARD: Damn you.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: The crystal lattice is breaking down. We'll have to pick up repairs when we can reach a starbase.
RIKER: The optimist of the group.
PICARD: How long do we have shields based on current calculations?
WORF: Under two hours, Captain. And the radiation field has increased by seventeen percent.
PICARD: So what impact will that have on fatal exposure?
CRUSHER: Down to twenty six minutes.
RIKER: If we resist, we die. If we don't resist, we die.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, have we shut down all non-essential energy usage?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. In fact, I need to get some back. I'm running a program on holodeck three.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: For what purpose?
LAFORGE: Well, I've gone back to the beginning

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: To the earliest construction entries of the Enterprise. I've created a propulsion design model to assist me.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Picard out.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Any word from La Forge?
PICARD: He's come up with something that may give us a chance, if we agree to stay out of it. He proposes to turn total control of the ship over to the computer because it is capable of making quicker adjustments than any human being.
RIKER: Computers have always impressed me with their ability to take orders. I'm not nearly as convinces of their ability to creatively give them.
PICARD: You know, Number One, you missed something not playing with model ships. They were the source of imaginary voyages, each holding a treasure of adventures. Manning the earliest space craft, flying a airplane with only one propeller to keep you in the sky. Can you imagine that? Now the machines are flying us.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Two minutes. Give me just two minutes.

[Utopia Planitia Drafting room]
LAFORGE: There is another way, Captain. Two minutes, please.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Two minutes, Mister La Forge. Picard out.

[Galorndon Core]
RIKER: Placing beam-out marker. Return transport, fourteen minutes, forty seconds. Is your view any better, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Not too bad, Commander. A lot of charged-particle precipitation, but I can compensate.
WORF: Communicators are dysfunctional.
RIKER: Tricorders?
WORF: Readings only valid within five meters.
RIKER: Good thing we didn't bring Data. We'd be unscrambling his circuits for a week.
LAFORGE: Commander! Picking up something on the positron scan. Over here. Some electrically conductive objects.
RIKER: Recognize those markings, Worf?
WORF: Yes, sir. Romulan.
RIKER: What the hell are they doing in a Federation sector?
LAFORGE: Picking up traces of ultritium residue. An explosive device must've been used to destroy the craft after it crashed.
RIKER: All right, let's spread out. Twenty five meter radius. Our window back closes in twelve minutes.
WORF: Commander!
WORF: Commander Riker!
WORF: Four minutes to beam-up.
RIKER: Where is he? Wait here.

[Pit]
LAFORGE: Worf! Worf! Commander Riker!

[Galorndon Core]
RIKER: Geordi! Geordi!

[Pit]
LAFORGE: Worf! Commander Riker!

[Galorndon Core]
RIKER: Hold your position, Mister Worf.

[Pit]
LAFORGE: Worf!
PICARD: Captain's log, Stardate 43349.2. An unidentified distress signal has led to the discovery of a crashed Romulan vessel on the surface of Galorndon Core, a Federation planet. We have recovered one survivor, but Lieutenant Commander La Forge did not report back with the away team and is still missing.

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER: Get him to Sickbay.
WORF: Secure Sickbay. Post a guard in visual contact at all times.
CRUSHER: He's not going anywhere, Lieutenant.
O'BRIEN: I'm sorry, Commander. There's just no way to lock in on anything down there.
RIKER: Keep trying, O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: The electrical storm's creating thousands of ghosts.
RIKER: Well beam some of those ghosts back. One of them may be Geordi. Permission to lead another away team, sir.
PICARD: Denied. When we get another window in the storms. The crash site?

[Corridor]
RIKER: The Romulan craft is a total loss. There's nothing there to salvage unless you want to use tweezers.
PICARD: No sign of others?
RIKER: You couldn't see two meters in front of yourself down there.
PICARD: It certainly is the last place one would expect Romulan encroachment. On the other hand, Galorndon Core would provide ideal cover for an opening move of a new offensive.
RIKER: I doubt if they were there for the climate.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I want him off all the drugs. They're not doing anything. Doctor Crusher to Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Doctor.
CRUSHER: My patient is not responding

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: To treatment.
PICARD: You haven't found a compatible ribosome donor?
CRUSHER: The lab is still processing the tests. Early results indicate humans have far

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Too many bio-rejection factors. I've also ruled out the Vulcans we've tested.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: I think I'll try a little old-fashioned country medicine. Keep the fever down, try to let the body heal itself.
PICARD: Keep me advised. Picard out.
WESLEY: Captain, the neutrino beacon is operational, and we've placed it aboard a class three probe.
PICARD: Well done, Ensign. Mister Worf, launch the probe.
WORF: Aye, aye, sir.
WORF: Probe has reached the surface, sir.
DATA: The neutrino stream is coming in strongly. Sensors are tracking the probe despite the interference.

[Crusher's office]
WORF: Yes, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Lieutenant, good. Come in. Please sit down. We have finally found a compatible ribosome match for the Romulan. But only one. You.
WORF: That is impossible. I am a Klingon.
CRUSHER: Different species, yes. But many humanoids have comparable cell structures. And you have what this Romulan needs. There's absolutely no risk to you. You did understand that was the purpose of all the testing?
WORF: I have no objection to tests.
CRUSHER: You have an objection to being a donor?
WORF: Yes.
CRUSHER: Lieutenant, I understand your feelings about the Romulans, but this is not the time or place.
WORF: If you had seen them kill your parents, you would understand, Doctor, it is always the time and place for those feelings.
CRUSHER: This Romulan didn't murder your parents. And you are the only one who can save his life.
WORF: Then he will die.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come. Worf.
WORF: You are busy. Forgive my intrusion.
RIKER: For what it's worth, I understand your bitterness.
WORF: With respect, sir, you cannot. I am asked to give up the very lifeblood of my mother and my father to those who murdered them.
RIKER: Must you blame all Romulans for that?
WORF: Yes.
RIKER: Forever? What if some day the Federation made peace with the Romulans.
WORF: Impossible.
RIKER: That's what your people said a few years ago about humans. Think how many died on both sides in that war. Would you and I be here now like this if we hadn't been able to let go of the anger and the blame? Where does it end, Worf? If that Romulan dies, does his family carry the bitterness on another generation?
WORF: Then you believe I should?
RIKER: What I believe doesn't matter.
WORF: My Starfleet training tells me one thing, but everything I am tells me another.
CRUSHER: Lieutenant Worf, report to Sickbay.
WORF: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
DATA: The storm is beginning to subside, Captain. We should have a window in less than an hour.
RIKER: There's still no indication that he's found the beacon, sir.
PICARD: Assemble an away team.
RIKER: Yes, sir.
WORF: Captain, the Romulan warship has crossed the Neutral Zone border. It is in Federation space and heading toward us.
PICARD: Belay that order, Number One. Red alert.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
WORF: You wished to see me, Captain.
PICARD: Yes, Lieutenant. I assume you know what it's about.
WORF: Yes.
PICARD: The Romulan ship will reach us within the hour. If our patient dies it may be just the excuse the Romulan commander needs to start an incident. The death of a Romulan officer at the hands of the Federation. Think of it.
WORF: I have, Captain.
PICARD: So, there is no question that the Romulan officer is more valuable to us alive than dead.
WORF: I understand.
PICARD: Lieutenant, sometimes the moral obligations of command are less than clear. I have to weigh the good of the many against the needs of the individual, and try to balance them as realistically as possible. God knows, I don't always succeed.
WORF: I have not had cause to complain, Captain.
PICARD: Oh, Lieutenant, you wouldn't complain even if you had cause.
WORF: If you order me to agree to the transfusion, I will obey, of course.
PICARD: I don't want to order you. But I ask you. I beg you to volunteer.
WORF: I cannot.
PICARD: Lieutenant.
WORF: Sir?
PICARD: That will be all.
PICARD: Picard to Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER: Go ahead.
PICARD: Do not continue to enlist the cooperation of Lieutenant Worf.
CRUSHER: I won't have to, Captain. The Romulan has died.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: The pleasure of your company is requested, Counselor. We're having a little impromptu reception for the arriving delegates.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Captain, I'm not really dressed for a reception.
PICARD: Oh, Counselor

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Just throw on any old thing. We're about to get our first look at the wormhole.
TROI: Of course, Captain. I'm on my way.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: God forbid I should miss my first look at the wormhole.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Whatever he's got is obviously not life threatening. It's some kind of system-wide histaminic reaction. He certainly can't go back to negotiations for several days.
PICARD: Will you keep me informed?

[Corridor]
PICARD: The Federation's top negotiator taken out by a mysterious ailment. Suspicions?
RIKER: With the Ferengi around? Always.
PICARD: You'll have to fill in, Number One.
RIKER: Me?
PICARD: Well, I'm the designated host. It would be a most awkward transition. You're the next likely choice. And Mister Mendoza will certainly agree. He's quite impressed by your natural instincts.
RIKER: Excuse me, sir, but those weren't natural instincts. Those were poker instincts. A card game doesn't exactly prepare me for this.
PICARD: Yes, the stakes are higher. But then, isn't that when the game gets interesting, Commander?

[Bridge]
WESLEY: The wormhole will reappear in thirty seconds, sir.
WORF: The Ferengi pod is moving into position.
PICARD: Shuttle nine, stand by.

[Shuttlepod]
LAFORGE: You know, if this doesn't work, the thought of spending the rest of my life in here is none too appealing.
DATA: There is a bright side, Geordi. You will have me to talk to.

[Bridge]
DATA: It is visible, Captain.
PICARD: Proceed when ready.
DATA: and intense energy fields which appear to be stabil
WESLEY: They've traveled beyond our communication capabilities, sir

[Shuttlecraft]
LAFORGE: I'm picking up an increase in accretion matter filtering in from the terminus.
DATA: Monitors are functioning normally again.
LAFORGE: Ferengi pod, everybody in one piece over there?

[Exercise room]
TROI: Sorry.
CRUSHER: You're unusually limber this morning.
TROI: I'll say. Devinoni Ral. It's ridiculous, and wonderful. I feel completely out of control. Happy. Terrified. But there's nothing rational about this.
CRUSHER: Who needs rational when your toes curl up?
TROI: I'm afraid I'm going to lose myself. I can't get enough of him. Is it possible to fall in love in one day?
CRUSHER: I did.
TROI: It was like this for you and Jack?
CRUSHER: No, it was another fellow. I fell in love in a day, it lasted a week. But what a week. Then I met Jack. It took months to figure it out with him.
TROI: Well then, maybe I should slow down. Catch my breath. Not let this get out of control. CRUSHER +
TROI: No.

[Shuttlepod]
LAFORGE: I'm telling you, it's changing.

[Shuttlepod]
LAFORGE: Your readings must be telling you the same things we're getting. This is not the Gamma Quadrant.

[Shuttlepod]
DATA: This is not a speculation, Doctor. We are not where the Barzans said we should be, which would indicate

[Ferengi pod]
DATA: This side of the wormhole is not stable.

[Shuttlepod]
LAFORGE: There are meson and lepton fluctuations. Local gravitational fields are increasing exponentially. Everything says we'd better get the hell out of here.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Goss has fired a missile at the wormhole.

[Shuttlepod]
LAFORGE: Barely.
PICARD: And the Ferengi pod, Commander?
LAFORGE: Trapped on the other side, sir.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: In the Delta Quadrant. We tried to warn them. They wouldn't follow us.
PICARD: Elaborate.

[Shuttlepod]
DATA: Captain, this end of the wormhole is currently stable, but the other end apparently shifts positions periodically.

[Federation outpost]
RIKER: Someone sure stripped this place.
WORF: The reactor's gone.
RIKER: No wonder they didn't answer our hail for two days. Nothing here to answer with.
DATA: Commander, I am detecting life signs from behind that door.
RIKER: Worf!
CRUSHER: Commander, take a look at this.
RIKER: Blood.
CRUSHER: Yes, but not human. I'm going to have to do some analysis on it.
WORF: It's jammed.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: The two scientists are suffering from phaser stuns. I'd guess several hits each.
PICARD: Several?
CRUSHER: It'll take us a while to bring them around, but they will recover. We found a sample of blood. It's a rare iron-copper composite, unique to one humanoid species. The Acamarians.
PICARD: Acamarians? Then that would suggest the Gatherers.
DATA: It is a likely hypothesis. The nomadic marauders who refer to themselves as Gatherers have raided other outposts in neighboring sectors.
RIKER: They've never come out this far before.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, set course for the Acamar system.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Captain's log, Stardate 43421.9. In an effort to put an end to the Gatherer raids, we have come to the Acamar System to enlist the aid of Marouk, the Sovereign of Acamar Three.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Now entering standard orbit of Gamma Hromi Two, sir.
DATA: Captain, I am detecting life readings from the planet surface, as well as several small areas of thermal radiation and carbon dioxide emissions, indicative of combustion.
WESLEY: Campfires, Data.
DATA: Is that not what I said?
RIKER: It's worth a look.
PICARD: Make it so.
RIKER: Data, Worf.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: You're scowling, Doctor.
CRUSHER: I'm thinking.
RIKER: And?
CRUSHER: The old Gatherer on the planet? I know what caused his heart attack. The medical tricorder almost missed it, but there was a microvirus in his body, blocking his autonomic nerve impulses.
RIKER: And that stopped his heart?
CRUSHER: But here's the really interesting part. This microvirus will only attach itself to cells which contain a very specific DNA sequence.
RIKER: How specific?
CRUSHER: Without knowing more about their genetic makeup, I can't be sure. But my guess is, this virus would only kill one Acamarian in a million.
RIKER: Pretty single-minded bug.
CRUSHER: Too single-minded. I can't believe it's a naturally occurring virus.
RIKER: Meaning somebody engineered it.
CRUSHER: Meaning Volnoth was murdered.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Oh, yes, thank you. New orders from Starfleet. The rendezvous. Nothing, thank you. The rendezvous with the Goddard has been postponed.
RIKER: In the meantime?
PICARD: Starbase three four three. We're to take on medical supplies for the Alpha Leonis system.
RIKER: Sounds pretty routine.
PICARD: With the Gatherer truce in effect, it certainly should be. We won't require a full ship's complement. I'm going to extend shore leave on the starbase to anyone who wants it.
RIKER: I'll pass that along to the crew, Captain.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Unidentified craft in the Neutral Zone.

[English camp at Agincourt]
RIKER: It's heading toward Federation space.
PICARD: On our way. Picard out. We'll get to the rest of the act another time, Data. Computer, file program and clear.
DATA: Captain, why should a king wish to pass as a commoner? If he is the leader, should he not be leading?

[Corridor]
PICARD: Listen to what Shakespeare is telling you about the man, Data. A king who had a true feeling for his soldiers would wish to share their fears with them on the eve of battle.
DATA: Sir, will I be able to schedule a performance for the crew in the near future?
PICARD: Let's not rush it, shall we?

[Engineering]
PICARD: Our shields around the Romulan scout ship.
LAFORGE: At that range, the shields won't be able to take much punishment, Captain.

[Bridge]
DATA: Five kilometers, sir.
RIKER: All stop.
PICARD: Extend shields.
LAFORGE: Shields in place.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We've got the scout ship, Captain.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Slow playback. Display engine logs and power data of both vessels. Now watch what happens at zero nine five four three three on the clock. The scout has sustained engine damage, forcing him to slow to point six one five impulse power. The warship should overtake him, but it doesn't. Now, just two point six seconds later, the warbird slows to precisely the same speed. Three times, three speed fluctuations. The warship kept its distance every time. I don't think they wanted to catch up.
CRUSHER: And yet they fired at the scout ship. They could have killed him.
DATA: Not necessarily, Doctor. The Romulans have the same capability to direct the impact of their weapons as we do.
PICARD: Is there a possibility the wound could be self-inflicted?
CRUSHER: They're very bad burns. I hardly think
PICARD: A possibility.
PICARD: Captain's log, Stardate 43463.7. We're holding a position at the Neutral Zone border proximate to Nelvana Three. If our guest is telling the truth, there are twenty one hours left before the Romulan base becomes functional.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I don't know, Data. My gut tells me we ought to be listening to what this guy's trying to tell us.
DATA: Your gut?
LAFORGE: It's just a feeling, you know? An instinct. Intuition.
DATA: But those qualities would interfere with rational judgment, would they not?
LAFORGE: You're right. Sometimes they do.
DATA: Then why not rely strictly on the facts?
LAFORGE: Because you just can't rely on the plain and simple facts. Sometimes they lie.
DATA: They can lead to wrong conclusions, but they cannot lie.
LAFORGE: What do you think? Is he a defector or not?
DATA: The facts to date would lead to an objective conclusion that he is not.
LAFORGE: Somehow I think we're going to catch the Romulans with their pants down on Nelvana Three, just like he says.
DATA: With their pants?
LAFORGE: A metaphor. Catching them in the act.
DATA: Because your gut tells you so?
LAFORGE: Exactly. But you can't always go with your gut either. It's a combination, Data. Right, I'll put it to you this way. All these feelings that get in the way of human judgment, that confuse the hell out of us, that make us second guess ourselves, well we need them. We need them to help us fill in the missing pieces because we almost never have all the facts.
DATA: So a person fills in missing pieces of the puzzle with his own personality, resulting in a conclusion based as much on instinct and intuition as on fact.
LAFORGE: Now you're getting it.
DATA: But what does one do if he has no instinct and intuition?
LAFORGE: Data. Look at this. The facts just took a left turn.

[Ready room]
DATA: As the probe went into orbit around Nelvana Three, it began picking up low level subspace radio emissions.
PICARD: Could they be naturally occurring?
DATA: No, sir. The patterns are clearly artificial.
LAFORGE: The signal was so faint our ship sensors couldn't read it from this distance.
PICARD: Can we decode it?
LAFORGE: We've tried. It's probably Romulan but we can't be sure. We've also picked up ionization disturbances.
DATA: Cloaked Romulan ships could produce that effect.
PICARD: What about the planet surface?
LAFORGE: Reading nothing but barren rock. I don't know. They might be able to hide a base from our probe. Its capabilities are limited. The only way we'll know for sure is if we go and take a look for ourselves.
PICARD: That'll be all, gentlemen.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Admiral Jarok has provided me with the locations, strengths and tactical plans of the Romulan fleet. Mister La Forge, he is prepared to give you data regarding engines, weapons and the cloaking systems of the warbird class starship. But I believe his experience as a field commander will be more valuable for its strategic sense than in the technical areas.
LAFORGE: Any edge'll help, Captain.
PICARD: Don't depend on it. For all we know, he may still be lying, but we shall find that out soon enough. Number One, set course for Nelvana Three. Second officer's log, stardate 43465.2. We have entered the Neutral Zone in direct violation of the Treaty of Algeron. Presuming Romulan warships are cloaked and monitoring us, we expect heavy resistance as we approach Nelvana Three.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Power transfer fields may be pinched off.

[Guest quarters]
CRUSHER: He ingested a Felodesine chip. He must have brought it with him. I'm sorry, Captain. There was no antidote.
RIKER: A letter to his wife and daughter.
DATA: Sir, he must have known it would be impossible for us to deliver this.
PICARD: Today, perhaps. But if there are others with the courage of Admiral Jarok, we may hope to see a day of peace when we can take his letter home.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Have you picked it up on the sensors?
DATA: Yes, Commander.
RIKER: Good.

[Bridge]
DATA: We will use extreme caution.
RIKER: Keep us informed. Riker out.
WORF: On screen, sir.
DATA: Specifications on the vessel, Mister Worf?
WORF: No warp drive. Minimal weaponry.
DATA: Heading, Mister Crusher?
WESLEY: Three one nine mark two five oh, sir.
LAFORGE: Vessel's speed increasing to point oh two impulse. He's seen us, Data.
LAFORGE: That's the ship's drive section
WESLEY: What happened to the rest of the ship?
DATA: Scan the drive section for life form readings.
WORF: None.
DATA: Bring us around to the back side of the asteroid, Mister Crusher.
LAFORGE: Sensors indicate wreckage on the asteroid's surface, Data.
WORF: No life signs.
DATA: Apparently, he did not survive.
WESLEY: Data, the drive section. Where'd it go? There's no sign of it on its previous heading. Someone must be at the helm.
RIKER: Status report, Mister Data?
DATA: I am afraid the prisoner has eluded us, sir.

[Angosian Senate]
PICARD: Eluded the Enterprise?

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: We're holding the contents in stasis pending arrival of security. An illicit weapon has been detected in the transport beam, sir.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: It's been rendered inoperable.
RIKER: Work, let's greet our guest.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Get him to a detention cell. Set phasers on maximum stun.
O'BRIEN: Commander.

[Ready room]
TROI: There's a duality in the man. It's hard to describe. He's aware of his crimes. In fact, they trouble him deeply.
PICARD: Counselor.
TROI: He's intelligent, thoughtful, typically Angosian. I know what he's done, but when I'm with him I cannot believe he is randomly and deliberately violent. in fact, inherently, he has a non-violent personality.
PICARD: Counselor, it took five men to restrain him and he took apart half of the Transporter Room in the process.
TROI: I'm not opening the door for him, Captain. I can only tell you that I sense something very unusual about him. Something that is not inherent to a criminal personality.
PICARD: In a few hours, I'll be turning him over to the Angosians, and I'll be happy to do it.
TROI: I understand.

[Bridge]
TROI: Data, do we have a link up to the Angosian central computer?
DATA: Yes, Counselor. We are copying records for Federation inspection pursuant to their application for admittance.
TROI: Can I see a police record on Roga Danar?
DATA: There is no police record.
TROI: That's impossible. He's been in prison.
DATA: Lunar Five is a military prison facility.
TROI: Military? He's a soldier ?
DATA: That may provide an explanation for the tactics he was able to use against us when we tried to capture him.
TROI: It doesn't say here what he was arrested for. Call up his military record.
DATA: He served in many campaigns during the Tarsian War, received two promotions, to the rank of Subhadar. A very honorable tour of duty
TROI: What was this man's crime?

[Observation lounge]
TROI: Roga Danar was an idealistic young man who answered his people's call to service. He joined the military to fight for the Angosian way of life. What he didn't realize was that by doing so he would have to give up that way of life for ever. He's not the same man who left home to go to war. He's been through intense psychological manipulation and biochemical modifications.
CRUSHER: At Troi's request I examined him. His cell structure has been significantly altered. They used a combination of cryptobiolin, triclenidil, macrospentol and a few things I can't even recognize.
RIKER: Was he a prisoner of war? Who did this to him?
TROI: His own government. He's been programmed to be the perfect soldier. He can be absolutely normal, but when a danger is perceived, the programming clicks in and takes over. Memory, strength, intelligence, reflexes, all become enhanced. He's conditioned to survive at any cost.
CRUSHER: One of the new substances in his cellular structure even shields electrical impulses.
DATA: Perhaps that would explain why our sensors did not detect him.
PICARD: Why was he assigned to the Lunar Five facility?
TROI: He committed no crime. He says he was ordered there with others like him. When the first soldiers returned to Angosia, they had trouble. The rules changed too quickly. A lost temper could result in murder.
DATA: Counselor, did no one try to adjust their programming?
TROI: They were just exiled to Lunar Five.
PICARD: Lunar Five, an orbiting gulag.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Transporter room one to Lieutenant Worf. We're ready, sir.

[Brig]
O'BRIEN: Energizing.
WORF: O'Brien, increase transporter power.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I'm losing him.

[Brig]
TROI: Roga, don't! You'll be killed!

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: What the hell?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Security personnel, full alert. Shut down all shuttlebays, transporters, and turbolifts.
WORF: Captain, a phaser is missing.

[Brig]
WORF: We must assume that he is armed.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sir, unauthorized access of turbolift five on deck thirty four.
RIKER: He took the bait.
PICARD: Data, override its destination. Divert that turbolift to a position near Lieutenant Worf's present location.
DATA: Four seconds to arrival, sir.

[Corridor]
WORF: We're in position.
WORF: Phaser on overload! Seal this deck.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, the overload has been averted.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sir, containment field down on deck thirty six.
RIKER: How the hell did he manage that?
PICARD: He's headed for Engineering.
RIKER: Riker to La Forge. Engineering, respond.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Engineering!. Engineering, come in! Geordi, are you okay?

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, someone in Engineering is attempting to override the security system lockout.
RIKER: Riker to Worf, he's in Engineering.

[Corridor]
WORF: Acknowledged, Commander. We're on our way.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data, I want you to stall Danar. Allow him to think he's succeeding.
DATA: As he bypasses each subsystem, I can re-route it without his knowledge.
PICARD: Make it so.
DATA: Danar is extremely adept, sir. I am not certain which security measure he is attempting to circumvent. Sir, Danar has succeeded in restoring power to shuttlebay two.
DATA: I have overridden Danar's bypass. Shuttlebay two is once again inactive.
PICARD: Very good, Mister Data. Now we know where he's headed.

[Engineering]
WORF: Geordi!
LAFORGE: I'm all right. He took us by surprise. He came out of nowhere. I didn't think anyone could move that fast.
DATA: Lieutenant, I am reading an open panel. K twelve, J nine, deck thirty.
WORF: Acknowledged.
LAFORGE: Danar must have climbed up the reactor core and got into a Jefferies tube. He could be anywhere.
WORF: We believe he is attempting to reach shuttlebay two.
LAFORGE: That's twenty five decks up from here. Quite a climb, but I wouldn't put it past him.
WORF: There is a full contingent of security at all shuttlebays.
LAFORGE: You want my advice? Double it!

[Cargo bay]
WORF: Worf to Bridge. We have found no sign of the intruder. But there is a missing pressure suit

[Bridge]
WORF: From cargo bay three.
PICARD: Pressure suit?
RIKER: Could be he's planning to enter shuttlebay two from outside the Enterprise, bypassing the security guards.
PICARD: Mister Worf, post security guards at all emergency airlocks on decks

[Bridge]
DATA: Explosion in Jefferies tube section T nine five. All external sensors inoperative.
RIKER: Go to backup systems.
DATA: Unable to transfer control, sir.

[Cargo bay]
WORF: Worf to Bridge.
PICARD: Go ahead.
WORF: Danar has escaped.

[Bridge]
WORF: He used a phaser to power the cargo transporter. Coordinates indicate he beamed aboard the Angosian transport ship.
PICARD: Data, can you verify that?
DATA: Negative, sir. All external sensors still nonfunctioning.
PICARD: Then we have no way to track him.
RIKER: That was his plan all along. First officer's log, supplemental. We are continuing to repair damage to the ship's sensors following the escape of the Angosian prisoner, Danar. He is still at large.

[Corridor]
PICARD: And my understanding is these men are programmed to survive. Is that correct?
TROI: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: And that they will not kill unless their survival is at stake?
DATA: It is against their nature to do so, Captain.
PICARD: Then let us hope they do not believe their survival is at stake.
RIKER: Mister Worf, you are personally responsible for the Captain's safety.
WORF: I understand, Commander.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Success, Captain?
PICARD: Number One, will you note in our report that if the government of Angosia survives the night, we will offer them Federation assistance in their efforts to reprogram their veterans.
RIKER: And if the government doesn't survive?
PICARD: I have a feeling they will choose to. Mister Crusher, set coordinates for Starbase Lya Three.
WESLEY: Coordinates set, Captain.
PICARD: Engage.

[Plaza Cafe]
DATA: We have only a few minutes before our next meeting, Doctor.
CRUSHER: It's all right. We're finished. Waiter?
WORF: Doctor!

[Plaza]
DATA: Sir, I've recommended such a course, but there are several wounded people and Doctor Crusher

[Bridge]
DATA: Is insisting on attending to
PICARD: I understand. Picard to Doctor Crusher.

[Plaza]
CRUSHER: Go ahead.
PICARD: Doctor, Commander Data has informed me of your situation.
CRUSHER: I already know what you're going to say.
PICARD: Doctor, will you at least allow me to
CRUSHER: The longer we argue, the longer

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: It's going to take me to save
PICARD: Doctor, you are endangering yourself and the away team.

[Plaza]
CRUSHER: Captain, I am trying to put life back into a wounded body with sleight of hand. I'm not going anywhere. Data and Worf

[Observation lounge]
DATA: A transporter would leave residual ionization in the air. Our tricorder readings found no trace after the incident.
RIKER: People don't just appear and disappear. There must be some way to track her.
DATA: We have been unable to detect a signal from her communicator. Either it has been deactivated or she is being held in a shielded location.
PICARD: Why her?
WORF: Sir, I believe she was the intended target of the abduction.
RIKER: Why would they want to take a Federation hostage? Their fight doesn't involve us.
WORF: It does now.

[Ready room]
TROI: We have no reason to believe she's been hurt in any way.
PICARD: In fact, it's more than likely that they will take good care of her, if they want to use her as a bargaining chip.
WESLEY: Bargaining chip?
TROI: The innocent often become the pawns in conflicts of this type, Wes.
PICARD: You see, the Ansata separatists have been trying for generations to freed themselves from the rule of the eastern continent. If they can get the government just to acknowledge their demands, then kidnapping your mother will have served its purpose. I think that may be what they're after, but it may not. Frankly, Wesley, I don't care. My only concern is to get your mother back. Very shortly, we shall be leaving to have a meeting with the authorities.
WESLEY: Request permission to be on the away team, sir.
PICARD: No. You have an important job to do here. If we are to free your mother, then we have to be able to trace the movements of the terrorists. I want you to work with the team that are investigating this new technology of theirs.
WESLEY: I understand.
PICARD: Report to Mister Data. Dismissed.
TROI: He needs your strength right now.
PICARD: History has shown us that strength may be useless when faced with terrorism.

[Engineering]
DATA: A subspace field coil with an isolated power source. Curious.
LAFORGE: Hey, guys. Come here. Look at this. The Rutian team picked up a faint nuclear vibration during the terrorist movements.
WESLEY: Nuclear vibration?
DATA: That could possibly indicate subspace transition rebound during transport.
WESLEY: Wait a minute, wait a minute. May I? Computer, call up the files on. What was his name? We spent two hours on him in astral physics last year. Folded-space transport.
LAFORGE: Adaptive transport.
WESLEY: Yes.
DATA: Are you referring to the Elway Theorem?
WESLEY: Yes. Computer, call up the files on the Elway Theorem. What if they're using inter-dimensional travel?
DATA: But the Elway Theorem proved to be entirely inaccurate. All research was abandoned by the mid-twenty third century.
WESLEY: But Data, look, the nuclear vibrations are the same, and Elway used a model similar to this.
LAFORGE: It would certainly be untraceable by any standard method of detection.
DATA: But it was proven to be fatal. To use this technology would be an irrational act.
PICARD: We may be dealing with irrational people, Data. Is there a way to trace this?
LAFORGE: With an adaptive subspace echogram, maybe?
DATA: Captain, anyone who is willing to transport in this manner, would suffer significant internal damage that could be detected.
PICARD: It sounds as though they may require the services of a doctor.

[Bridge]
DATA: A dimensional jump can create subspace pressure modulation, Captain. By setting up a magnetosphere echogram that can monitor each of their movements, we may be able to collect enough data to trace their power source.
PICARD: Can you estimate the number of jumps it will take?
DATA: Dimensional shifting is such an unstable procedure, sir, that I cannot say. Sir, I am finding it difficult to understand many aspects of Ansata conduct. Much of their behavioral norm would be defined by my program as unnecessary and unacceptable.
PICARD: By my program as well, Data.
DATA: But if that is so, Captain, why are their methods so often successful? I have been reviewing the history of armed rebellion and it appears that terrorism is an effective way to promote political change.
PICARD: Yes, it can be, but I have never subscribed to the theory that political power flows from the barrel of a gun.
DATA: Yet there are numerous examples where it was successful. The independence of the Mexican State from Spain, the Irish Unification of 2024, and the Kensey Rebellion.
PICARD: Yes, I am aware of them.
DATA: Then would it be accurate to say that terrorism is acceptable when all options for peaceful settlement have been foreclosed?
PICARD: Data, these are questions that mankind has been struggling with throughout history. Your confusion is only human.

[Bridge]
WORF: Intruder alert, deck twelve.
WESLEY: Another subspace reflection. Dimensional shift, sir.
PICARD: Go to Red alert. Sound general quarters.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Security to Engineering.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Explosive charge on the main warp chamber.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: They've got it locked on somehow. Stand by.
LAFORGE: Transporter room, lock on my signal and stand by to transport two kilometers off the starboard nacelle.

[Bridge]
TROI: His signal?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Transporter Room, now!

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, report.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Transport complete, Captain. I have a man down.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: More dimensional shifts, sir.
PICARD: Can you calibrate their destination?
WESLEY: No, sir, the readings are
TROI: Security. Code one emergency. Security!

[Cavern]
RIKER: Generator's right over there.

[Side cave]
PICARD: Beverly, how dangerous would another ride through the inverter be to us?
CRUSHER: I don't know. But I don't want you to start thinking about
PICARD: Beverly, it is our obligation to think of escape.
CRUSHER: He's prepared to kill you.
PICARD: An excellent reason to escape. Do you think you've gained his confidence?
PICARD: Indeed you have. And more. This might prove to be an advantage to us.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, there are some things I want to tell you in case we don't get out of this.
PICARD: Have they found us?

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: I hear I owe my rescue to you.
WESLEY: I was just part of the team. It's good to have you back. Both of you, sir.
PICARD: Take us out of orbit, Mister Crusher. At your convenience.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Back where it belongs?
LAFORGE: We'd need to apply a delta vee of about four kilometers per second. Even with warp power to the tractor beam, it would mean exceeding recommended impulse engine output by at least forty-seven percent. It'd be like

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: An ant pushing a tricycle. A slim chance at best.
RIKER: Given a choice between slim and none, I'll take slim any day.
PICARD: Make it so.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, contact all ships in this sector to rendezvous and join us in relief efforts.
PICARD: We'll keep you informed of our progress. Picard out.
RIKER: Can you give us any more, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Not without burning out the tractor beam emitter. The circuits are already beyond the thermal limit.
DATA: Delta vee is ninety two meters per second. The mass is too great. We are having an effect but it is negligible.
RIKER: What is that?
DATA: Unable to identify source.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Impulse engines passing safety limits. We're seconds

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: From automatic shutdown.
PICARD: Reduce engine power. Tractor beam off.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, what the hell do the sensors say?
WORF: The sound is not registering, Commander.
PICARD: Q!
Q: Red alert.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We are no closer to finding a solution to the deteriorating orbit of the Bre'el Four moon, but with the arrival of Q, we now have a good idea of the cause.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Our options?
LAFORGE: We've done everything by the book and a little extra. We need more time or more power, and we're short on both. I'll take a look and see if there are any rules I haven't broken.
PICARD: Keep me advised.
RIKER: We know you're behind this, Q.
Q: These aren't my colors. And what are you blathering about, Riker?
PICARD: What kind of twisted pleasure does it give you to bring terror into their lives?
Q: Whose lives?
PICARD: The millions of people down there who are watching as their moon falls out of the sky.
Q: I haven't the vaguest idea what you're talking about and I have a much more serious problem. I'm no longer a member of the Continuum. My superiors have decided to punish me.
PICARD: And punish us as well, it would seem.
Q: They said I've spread chaos through the universe, and they've stripped me of all my powers. You don't believe me, do you? Do you think I would humiliate myself like this?
RIKER: If it served your purpose, yes.
Q: It's the truth. I stand before you defrocked. Condemned to be a member of this lowest of species. A normal, imperfect, lumpen human being.
TROI: They made you human as part of your punishment?
Q: No, it was my request. I could have chosen to exist as a Markoffian sea lizard or a Belzoidian flea. Anything I wished as long as it was mortal. And since I only had a fraction of a second to mull and I chose this and asked them to bring me here.
TROI: Why?
Q: Because in all the universe you're the closest thing I have to a friend, Jean-Luc.
DATA: Sir, he is reading as fully human.
Q: What, is there an echo in here?
TROI: I am sensing an emotional presence, Captain. I would normally describe it as being terrified.
Q: How rude.
PICARD: what is it you want, Q?
Q: Your compassion. All right, Sanctuary on this ship, dreary as it may sound to both of us.
PICARD: Return that moon to its orbit.
Q: I have no powers. Q the ordinary.
PICARD: Q the liar. Q the misanthrope.
Q: Q the miserable. Q the desperate. What must I do to convince you people?
WORF: Die.
Q: Oh, very clever, Worf. Eat any good books lately?
PICARD: Fine. You want to be treated as a human?
Q: Absolutely.
PICARD: All right. Mister Worf, throw him in the brig.
WORF: Delighted, Captain.
Q: You can't do this to me, Jean-Luc.
WORF: You will walk or I will carry you.
Q: Given the option, I'll walk. You've disappointed me, Jean-Luc. I'm very disappointed. Hey, I'm claustrophobic, I don't like it in here.

[Turbolift]
Q: It was a mistake. I never should have picked human. I knew it the minute I said it. To think of the future in this shell. Forced to cover myself with fabric because of some outdated human morality. To say nothing of being too hot or too cold, growing feeble with age, losing my hair, catching a disease, being ticklish, sneezing, having an itch, a pimple, bad breath. Having to bathe.
WORF: Too bad.

[Corridor]
Q: Klingon. I should have said Klingon. In my heart of hearts, I am a Klingon, Worf.
Q: Sorry. So you understand I could never survive in confinement. I mean, this is cruel and unusual punishment. The universe has been my back yard. As a fellow Klingon, if you would speak to the Captain on my behalf, I would be eternally grateful. which doesn't mean as much as it used to, I admit.
WORF: Be quiet! Or disappear back where you came from.
Q: I can't disappear any more than you could win a beauty contest.

[Brig]
Q: If I ask a very simple question, do you think you might be able to answer it without it troubling your intellect too much?
Q: Ready? Here goes. Would I permit you to lock me away if I still had all my powers?
WORF: You have fooled us too often, Q.
Q: Perspicacity incarnate. Please don't feel compelled now to tell me the story of the boy who cried Worf.
WORF: Computer, activate force field.
Q: I demand to be let out of here, immediately. Do you hear me? You will deactivate this cell immediately! Romulan!
Q: I should have said Romulan, that Klingon goat!

[Bridge]
RIKER: Data?
DATA: Sensors are showing broadband emissions, including Berthold rays
RIKER: Lethal?
DATA: No, Commander. Overall exposure is less than seventy five rems. Very low intensity, more like a soft medical scan. I would speculate we are being probed.
PICARD: By whom?
DATA: The sensors cannot identify the point of origin. It seems to be coming from all around us.

[Brig]
Q: Ah, you've come to apologize. How nice. All's forgiven. No offense taken.
PICARD: Enough. Q, what exactly is going on.
Q: Well, how can I know what's going on? I've been in this dungeon of yours, alone, helpless, bored to tears.
PICARD: We have a moon inexplicably falling out of orbit, and just now this ship was probed with Berthold radiation.
Q: I wasn't aware of this. Truthfully, Jean-Luc. I have been entirely preoccupied by a most frightening experience of my own. A couple of hours ago, I realizing that my body was no longer functioning properly. I felt weak. I could no longer stand. The life was oozing out of me. I lost consciousness.
PICARD: You fell asleep.
Q: Terrifying. How can you stand it day after day?
PICARD: You get used to it.
Q: What other dangers await me? I'm not prepared for this. I need guidance.
PICARD: Q, I'm not going to play along with this. If you want to continue this charade, you can do it alone.
Q: Jean-Luc, wait! This is getting on my nerves, now that I have them. You have a moon in a deteriorating orbit. I've known moons through the universe. Big ones, small ones. I'm an expert. I could help you with this one, if you let me out of here.
PICARD: Q, there are millions of lives at risk. If you have the power to
Q: I don't have any powers. But I have the knowledge, locked up in this puny brain. You cannot afford to not take that advantage, can you?
PICARD: Mister Data, report to detention cell three.
DATA: On my way, sir.
PICARD: Computer, remove the forcefield. If you are human, which I seriously doubt, you will have to work hard to earn our trust.
Q: I'm not worried about that, Jean-Luc. You only dislike me. There are others in the cosmos who truly despise me.
PICARD: Mister Data, you are hereby assigned to Q for the remainder of his stay. You will escort him to Mister La Forge in Engineering.
DATA: Aye, sir.
Q: Can I have a Starfleet uniform? What are you looking at?
DATA: I was considering the possibility that you are telling the truth, that you really are human.
Q: It's the ghastly truth, Mister Data. I can now stub my toe with the best of them.
DATA: An irony. It means that you have achieved in disgrace what I have always aspired to be.

[Corridor]
Q: Humans are such commonplace little creatures. They roam the galaxy looking for something, they know not what.
DATA: The human race has an enduring desire for knowledge, and for new opportunities to improve itself.
Q: There's certainly room for improvement, but the truth is, Data, they are a minor species in the grand scheme. Not worth your envy.
DATA: Oh, I do not feel envy.
Q: Well, that's good.
DATA: I feel nothing at all. That is part of my dilemma. I have the curiosity of humans, but there are questions I will never have the answer to. What is it like to laugh, or cry, or to experience any human emotions.
Q: Well, if you ask me, these human emotions are not what they're cracked up to be.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: The moon will hit its perigee in ten hours. Now, we match its trajectory, increase emitter coolant rate so we can apply continuous warp-equivalent power nine to the tractor beam. We can push it for nearly seven hours and I think that just might do it. But, there's a problem.
DATA: The Enterprise will be dangerously close to the atmosphere.
LAFORGE: That's the problem.
Q: This is incredible.
LAFORGE: You see something here, Q?
Q: I think I just hurt my back. I'm feeling pain. I don't like it. What's the right thing to say? Ow? LAFORGE +
DATA: Ow.
Q: Ow! I can't straighten up.
DATA: Medical assistance to Engineering.
LAFORGE: Q, I've got a few people down on Bre'el Four who are going to be hurt
Q: Yes, yes, your marvelous plan will not only tear the moon to pieces but your precious ship as well.
LAFORGE: You got a better idea?
Q: I would certainly begin by examining the cause and not the symptom.
LAFORGE: We've done that, Q, and there's no way to
Q: This is obviously the result of a large celestial object passing through at near right angles to the plane of the star system. Probably a black hole.
DATA: Can you recommend a way to counter the effect?
Q: Simple. Change the gravitational constant of the universe.
LAFORGE: What?
Q: Change the gravitational constant of the universe, thereby altering the mass of the asteroid.
LAFORGE: Redefine gravity? How am I supposed to do that?
Q: You just do it. Where's that Doctor, anyway?
DATA: Geordi is trying to say that changing the gravitational constant of the universe is beyond our capabilities.
Q: Oh. In that case, never mind.
Q: Ah, Doctor Crusher. I see Starfleet has shipped you back into exile.
DATA: Q says he has hurt his back.
CRUSHER: Ah ha. Well, if I didn't see it with my own eyes, I wouldn't believe it. According to this, he has classic back trauma. Muscle spasms.
Q: I've been under a lot of pressure lately. Family problems.
CRUSHER: Well. don't expect too much sympathy from me. You've been a pain in our backside often enough.
Q: Your bedside manner is admirable, Doctor. I'm sure your patients recover quickly just to get away from you.
LAFORGE: You know, this might work. We can't change the gravitational constant of the universe, but if we wrap a low level warp field around that moon, we could reduce its gravitational constant. Make it lighter so we can push it.
Q: Glad I could help. Ow. I think.
CRUSHER: Now what?
Q: There's something wrong with my stomach.
CRUSHER: It hurts?
Q: It's making noises.
CRUSHER: Maybe you're hungry.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, we're being hit by a field of energetic tachyons penetrating the hull. Location, deck ten, forward.
PICARD: Red alert.
RIKER: Geordi, increase power to shields.
LAFORGE: Increasing power by twenty percent
WORF: No effect

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Increasing to forty percent.

[Bridge]
WORF: Still no effect

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Adjusting shield harmonics, diverting power to the forward grids.

[Bridge]
WORF: The added harmonics are blocking the tachyon field.

[Ten forward]
Q: Help me! Somebody, help me!
GUINAN: How the mighty have fallen.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We have sustained light damage from an attack by an alien species known as the Calamarain. They apparently have a grievance with Q. No doubt one of many lifeforms that do.

[Observation lounge]
Q: The Calamarain are not very hospitable creatures. They exist as swirls of ionized gas.
PICARD: What did you do to them, Q?
Q: Nothing bizarre, nothing grotesque.
RIKER: You tormented them.
Q: A subjective term, Riker. One creature's torment, is another creature's delight. They simply have no sense of humor, a character flaw with which you can personally identify.
RIKER: I say we turn him over to them.
Q: Oh, I take it back. You do have a sense of humor. A dreadful one at that.
RIKER: I'm serious.
PICARD: Of course. You knew this would happen, didn't you?
Q: One can never anticipate the Calamarain. They're very intelligent, but very flighty.
PICARD: Yes, but you must have so many enemies. Certainly you knew that once you became mortal some of them might look you up.
Q: It had occurred to me.
PICARD: And for all your protestations of friendship, your real reason for being here is protection.
Q: You're very smart, Jean-Luc, but I know human beings. They're all sopping over with compassion and forgiveness. They can't wait to absolve almost any offense. It's an inherent weakness in the breed.
PICARD: On the contrary, it is a strength.
Q: You call it what you will, but I think you'll protect me even though I've tortured you now and again.
RIKER: Fighting off all the species you've insulted would be a full time mission. That's not the one I signed up for.
PICARD: Indeed. Human or not, I want no part of you. We will deposit you at the first starbase. Let them deal with you.
Q: But I could be a valuable member of the team. I'm human, I can learn.
DATA: He has provided important theoretical guidance for Geordi's analysis of the Bre'el satellite, Captain.
TROI: It seems you have an advocate, Q.
DATA: I am merely stating a fact, Counselor.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, your status?
LAFORGE: I've been putting together a program to extend the forward lobe of the warp field. The field coils

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Aren't designed to envelop such a large volume. But I'm attempting to modify their alignment parameters.
DATA: Maintaining field integrity will be difficult, Geordi.
LAFORGE: I'm pretty sure we can do it manually. The moon will come to its perigee in fourteen minutes.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, you will escort Q to Engineering. You will assist Mister La Forge. Mister Worf, hail the Bre'el Four science station.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
Q: Picard thinks I can't cut it on his starship. I can do anything his little trained minions can do.
DATA: I do not perceive your skills to be in doubt, Q. The Captain is more concerned with your ability to interact successfully with his little trained minions.
DATA: Human interpersonal relationships are more complex. Your experiences may not have adequately prepared you.
Q: I'm not interested in human interpersonal relationships. I just want to prove to Picard that I'm indispensable.

[Turbolift]
DATA: Engineering. To function aboard a starship, or in any human activity, you must learn to form relationships.
Q: It's so hard.
DATA: And of more immediate importance is your ability to work within groups.
Q: I'm not good in groups. It's difficult working in a group when you're omnipotent.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: The moon has reached its minimum orbital distance. It's time, Captain.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We'll have to lower shields.
PICARD: Proceed. Mister Worf, keep a close eye on Q's friends out there.
WORF: Understood.

[Engineering]
Q: All right, everyone, this is what we're going to be doing.
LAFORGE: Q, everybody already knows what they're going to do, except for you, Now here's what I need.
Q: La Forge, obviously my knowledge and experience far exceed yours by about a billion times. So, if you'll just step aside gracefully.
LAFORGE: Q, your experience will be most valuable to me if you can manually control the field integrity.
Q: Don't be foolish. That would be a waste of my talents.
LAFORGE: Q, get to the controls or get the hell out of here. Data, you're my liaison to the Bridge. I'll need you with me.
Q: Who does he think he is, giving me orders.
DATA: Geordi thinks he is in command here, and he is correct.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Engineering, holding at station keeping, range six hundred and forty meters.
DATA: Containment fields to flight tolerance.

[Engineering]
DATA: Warp core to ninety percent.
LAFORGE: Engage field coils. Tractor beam to stand by. Field output? Field output?
Q: Two seventeen.
LAFORGE: Impulse engines to full. Ready to engage tractor beam.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Lowering shields. Engage tractor beam.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Extending warp field forward.
PICARD: Engineering, is that the forward limit?
DATA: Yes, Captain. We are unable to encompass the entire moon.
PICARD: Do you recommend that we proceed?
Q: The two parts of the moon will have different inertial densities.
LAFORGE: Stand by, Captain. I can adjust the field symmetry to compensate.
Q: I doubt it.
LAFORGE: You don't know what this ship can do, Mister. Yes, Captain, I still believe it'll work. Increasing power and warp field and tractor beam.
Q: And if you're wrong, the moon will crumble due to subspace compression. Don't say I didn't warn you.
LAFORGE: Shut up, Q.
Q: I will not be spoken to in this manner!
LAFORGE: Data.
DATA: Q, I strongly suggest that you cooperate.
DATA: Inertial mass of the moon is decreasing to approximately two point five million metric tons.
LAFORGE: It's working. We can move it. Firing impulse engines.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, the moon's trajectory has moved point three percent. Point-four percent.
WORF: Emergency! Shields up.
RIKER: Disengage tractor beam.
WORF: Calamarain attacking. Shields holding. Tachyon field repelled.
LAFORGE: Captain, the impact of the blast is pushing us into the upper atmosphere.

[Engineering]
DATA: Hull temperature rising. Two thousand degrees.

[Bridge]
DATA: Two thousand five hundred degrees.
LAFORGE: Moving to full impulse power.
WORF: Calamarain resuming attack.
WORF: They've overpowered the shields. Hull penetration, deck thirty six, Engineering.
RIKER: Geordi, can you direct any more power to the shields?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We need all the power we have to get out of the atmosphere, Commander.
LAFORGE: Try activating the structural integrity field.
LAFORGE: It's not working. Structural field harmonics on manual.
RIKER: La Forge. Hull temperature falling. We're in the clear.
LAFORGE: Diverting power to forward sections now.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: That charge nearly knocked out his positronic net.
RIKER: What can you do for him?
LAFORGE: We can try to discharge and reset the motor pathways, recouple the autonomic nodes.
CRUSHER: There's overpressure in his fluidic systems. Thermal shock. If he was mortal, he'd be dead.
Q: Let us not overstate the matter here, Doctor. I'm mortal and I survived. The cheers are overwhelming.
PICARD: Q, you exceed your own standards of self-preoccupation. You have no concern for an officer who may have saved your life.
Q: He's strong, he'll survive.
LAFORGE: Osmotic pressure still rising. Maybe we can by-pass the flow regulator.
CRUSHER: It would be helpful if everybody just got out of here now.
PICARD: Stay with Q.
LAFORGE: We'll let you know as soon as there's anything to tell you.
RIKER: Geordi? The moon's trajectory?
LAFORGE: All we did was buy ourselves another orbit, at most. We can try again when the moon comes back to its perigee.
RIKER: And when we drop our shields, the Calamarains go after Q again.
LAFORGE: Commander, he's not worth it.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
Q: You're right, of course. I am extraordinarily selfish. But it has served me so well in the past.
PICARD: It will not serve you here.
Q: Don't be so hard on me, Jean-Luc. You've been a mortal all your life. You know all about dying. I've never given it a second thought. Or a first one, for that matter. I could have been killed. If it hadn't been for Data and that one brief delay he created, I would have been gone. No more me. And no one would have missed me, would they? Data may have sacrificed himself for me. Why?
PICARD: That is his special nature. He learned the lessons of humanity well.
Q: When I ask myself if I would have done the same for him, And I am forced to answer no, I feel, I feel ashamed.
PICARD: Q, I'm not your father confessor. You will receive no absolution from me. You have brought nothing but pain and suffering to this crew. And I'm still not entirely convinced that all this isn't your latest attempt at a puerile joke.
Q: It is a joke. A joke on me. The joke of the universe. The king who would be man. As I learn more and more what it is to be human, I am more and more convinced that I would never make a good one. I don't have what it takes. Without my powers, I'm frightened of everything. I'm a coward, and I'm miserable, and I can't go on this way.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: He's going to be all right.
LAFORGE: We're recalibrating his language circuits, so he can't talk yet.
Q: There are creatures in the universe who would consider you the ultimate achievement, android. No feelings, no emotions, no pain. And yet you covet those qualities of humanity. Believe me, you're missing nothing. But if it means anything to you, you're a better human than I.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Commander, the shields are frozen.
RIKER: Cause?
LAFORGE: Unknown.
RIKER: Lock on tractor beam.
LAFORGE: Tractor beam is not functioning either.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What the hell is going on?

[Art class]
DATA: Captain, we have arrived at Tanuga Four. The away team has completed its survey of Doctor Apgar's work and is ready to return to the ship.
PICARD: Good. Please. And feel free to examine the work of the other students too.
DATA: Ensign Williams' striking style is heavily influenced by geometric constructivism.
DATA: Lieutenant Wright has effectively fused the incongruities of the surrealists with the irrationality of Dadaism.
DATA: Interesting.
PICARD: Oh, thank you. In what way?
DATA: While suggesting the free treatment of form usually attributed to Fauvism, this quite inappropriately attempts to juxtapose the disparate cubistic styles of Picasso and Leger. In addition, the use of color suggests a haphazard mlange of clashing styles. Furthermore, the unsettling overtones of proto-Vulcan influences
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data.
DATA: You are welcome, sir. If I can be of further assistance
PICARD: No! Thank you.
PICARD: Captain's log, Stardate 43610.4. After completing a delivery of dicosilium to the Tanuga Four research station, our away team has received an update from Doctor Nel Apgar on his efforts to create Krieger Waves, a potentially valuable new power source.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Welcome back, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Where's Commander Riker?
LAFORGE: He's still on the station, sir. Doctor Apgar wanted to have a word with him.
PICARD: Any problems?
LAFORGE: Not with the scientific part of the mission, no, sir.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. I'm ready to leave, now.
LAFORGE: I'm sure Commander Riker will be able to explain everything, Captain.
O'BRIEN: Stand by, Commander. Engaging transport.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Transporter Room to Engineering. I have a power drain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter Room! Is Commander Riker aboard?
O'BRIEN: Not yet, Captain. I'm having trouble clearing the signal

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Transporter Room to Bridge.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: He's aboard.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Why do you sound so surprised, Mister O'Brien?
O'BRIEN: For a moment, we weren't sure you left the space station in time.
RIKER: In time for what?
O'BRIEN: It just exploded, sir.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Riker has informed me that Doctor Apgar was the only one aboard the space station when it exploded. We remain in orbit investigating the accident.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I've gone through the whole system, Captain. I can't find any malfunction in the transporter.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Nothing that would cause an explosion like that
PICARD: Why was there a power drain before transport?
O'BRIEN: I don't know, sir.
PICARD: I shall want an answer to that. I'm sure the Tanugans will too.
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir.
DATA: Captain, the radiation and debris are consistent with an overload of the station's reactor core.
PICARD: Were there any indications of reactor core problems while you were on the station?
LAFORGE: No, sir.
PICARD: Number One? Mister La Forge indicated that this was not an entirely routine mission.
RIKER: It's a long story, sir, but I'm sure it doesn't have anything to do with this accident.
WORF: Captain, Chief Investigator Krag of the Tanugan security force requests permission to beam aboard.
PICARD: Granted. Will you escort him to the Bridge, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Perhaps you had tell me as much as possible prior to his arrival, Number One.

[Transporter room]
WORF: I'm Lieutenant Worf, head of ship's Security. I will take you to the Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign Crusher, Mister La Forge, we are going to recreate the research station here on the holodeck. I want you to work with Commander Data on the preparations. In addition, Commander La Forge and Commander Riker, I want you to give the computer detailed depositions of everything you saw, everything you heard while you were on board. Counselor, I want you to assist me during this inquiry. My decision about the extradition will be based upon the evidence presented during these recreations.
RIKER: Captain, may I have a word with you?
PICARD: Under these circumstances, Number One, I think that would be inappropriate. Second officer's log, Stardate 43611.6. Programming of the holodeck has taken eighteen hours eleven minutes, and is now complete. All participants have entered their depositions. Technical schematics and complete records from the lab's ground computers, as well as Doctor Apgar's personal logs, have been included. The recreations will have a nominal eight point seven percent margin of error.

[Corridor]
WESLEY: What kind of radiation could do this? Make any sense to you?
LAFORGE: I don't recognize it. Not even the main deflector puts out that kind of spillage.
WESLEY: Where would it be coming from?
LAFORGE: I don't know, Wes, but whatever it is, it's capable of putting a hole in solid duranium.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: This is healing beautifully. I think you can work on strengthening these muscles again.
WORF: Security to Doctor Crusher. Evacuate. Repeat, evacuate. Radiation emissions are indicated in Sickbay.
DATA: It is definitely the same radiation that penetrated deck thirty nine. Highly focused, very powerful but of unknown origin.
LAFORGE: If this should happen in the engine core or the anti-matter containment tanks, we'll be in big trouble, Captain.
PICARD: Do you have any theories?
WESLEY: Captain, Data's noticed something that's too strange to be a coincidence.
DATA: The two radiation events aboard the Enterprise occurred five hours, twenty minutes and three seconds apart. The science station exploded yesterday at almost four times that interval.
WESLEY: There's a point zero zero one four second variance we haven't been able to explain yet.
RIKER: So you're saying there's a connection between the radiation bursts and the explosion?
DATA: We do not have the evidence to support that conclusion at this time, Commander.
CRUSHER: If they're right, we should be able to predict the next event.
LAFORGE: We're expecting it in just over five hours.
PICARD: Take every precaution to protect the ship's vital areas. If we haven't identified the source before the time interval, we'll leave orbit. If you perceive any further danger, advise me immediately.
WESLEY: We'll figure it out for you, Commander.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I don't see any alternative, do you?
TROI: We both know Will's innocent.
PICARD: Of course he's innocent. But as a Starfleet Captain, I can't allow myself the luxury of yielding to my personal feelings. The evidence warrants a trial. I'll have to allow extradition.
TROI: Do you think there's enough evidence to prove his innocence?
PICARD: No.
DATA: Captain, I believe we have found the source of the radiation. Can you join us on the Bridge?
PICARD: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
DATA: As you know, Captain, we are looking for a phenomenon that reoccurs every five hours, twenty minutes and three seconds.
PICARD: The interval between radiation bursts.
DATA: We have found one such phenomenon on the planet's surface.
LAFORGE: It's the field generator that Apgar during in his research. When it's fully charged, it automatically emits an energy pulse and then takes five hours, twenty minutes and three seconds to recharge itself.
WESLEY: It must have been left on after the explosion of the lab.
PICARD: But why would a generator be affecting the Enterprise this way?
DATA: It should not be. It is a harmless lambda field generator.
LAFORGE: But we knew that somehow it was related to our radiation bursts and then the pieces started just falling together.
DATA: We now know what is causing the bursts, and why the science station exploded, sir.
WESLEY: And we also know who killed Doctor Apgar.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, have we any further business in the Tanuga system?
RIKER: Not that I know of. I'd be more than willing to put it behind me.
PICARD: Then perhaps you would do me the pleasure of getting this ship underway.
RIKER: With pleasure, sir. Ensign Crusher, set course for Emila Two, warp three.
WESLEY: Course laid in, sir.
RIKER: Engage.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: All right. Try this.
WORF: What is it?
GUINAN: Just try it.
GUINAN: You see? It's an Earth drink. Prune juice.
WORF: A warrior's drink.
GUINAN: You know, you're always drinking alone. It wouldn't hurt you to seek out a little companionship.
WORF: I would require a Klingon woman for companionship. Earth females are too fragile.
GUINAN: Not all of them. There are a few on this ship that would find you tame.
WORF: Impossible.
GUINAN: You never know till you try.
WORF: Then I will never know.
GUINAN: Coward.
WORF: I was merely concerned for the safety of my crewmates.
GUINAN: Drink your prune juice.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, report to the Bridge.
WORF: On my way.
GUINAN: No!

[Bridge]
PICARD: Analysis, Mister Data.
DATA: Sensors are reading gravimetric fluctuations, Captain. Most unusual ones.
RIKER: Unusual in what way? Specify?
DATA: Nothing I have seen before.
PICARD: Is it a wormhole?
DATA: Yes and no. Like a time displacement, but it does not have a diskernible event horizon.
WESLEY: Sir, navigational subsystems are unable to give coordinates on the object.
DATA: Confirmed. The phenomenon does not have a definable center or outer edge.
RIKER: Are you saying it is and yet it isn't there?
DATA: I do not have sufficient information to make an analysis as yet, Commander. The dynamics of the radiation patterns
WORF: Captain! Something's happening. A new change in sensor readings.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: Scanning sensors)
PICARD: Lieutenant, what are their sensor readings? Is that an enemy vessel?
TASHA: I'm getting too much interference, Captain.

[Bridge]
TASHA: It's clearing now, Captain. Definitely Federation starship. Accessing registry.
RIKER: Looks like they had a rough ride.
TASHA: NCC one seven oh one C. USS Enterprise. Military log, Combat date 43625.2. While investigating an unusual radiation anomaly, the Enterprise has encountered what could almost be called a ghost from its own past, the Enterprise-C, the immediate predecessor to this battleship.

[1701D Bridge]
DATA: Away team reporting in, sir.
PICARD: On screen, Mister Data. Go ahead, Commander.
RIKER: We've stabilized life support. Mister La Forge is working on restoring the main power couplings, but that'll take time. It's a real mess down here, sir.
PICARD: Survivors?
RIKER: One hundred twenty five.
PICARD: Recommendation?
RIKER: I'd hate to have to scrap her. Starfleet could certainly use another ship, even if she is old.
PICARD: Agreed. But we can't stay in this area too long. You have nine hours. If you can get her underway by then, we'll escort her back to Starbase one oh five. If not, we'll evacuate the survivors and destroy the ship.
RIKER: Understood, sir.
PICARD: Keep me posted, Picard out.
PICARD: Guinan?
GUINAN: We need to talk. Somehow this, this is all wrong. This is not the way it's supposed to be.

[Ready room]
PICARD: You must have some idea how things have changed.
GUINAN: I look at things, I look at people, and they just don't feel right.
PICARD: What things? What people?
GUINAN: You. Your uniform. The Bridge.
PICARD: What's the matter with the Bridge?
GUINAN: It's not right.
PICARD: It's the same Bridge. Nothing has changed.
GUINAN: I know that. I also know it's wrong.
PICARD: What else?
GUINAN: Families. There should be children on this ship.
PICARD: What? Children on the Enterprise? Guinan, we're at war.
GUINAN: No, we're not. At least, we're not supposed to be. This is not a ship of war. This a ship of peace.
PICARD: What you're suggesting
GUINAN: I'm not suggesting. That ship from the past is not supposed to be here. It's got to go back.

[1701D Bridge]
DATA: There is a high degree of probability that the temporal rift is symmetrical, Captain.
PICARD: Then what would happen if the Enterprise C were to fly back through it?
DATA: Back, sir? The Enterprise C would emerge in her own time period at almost the same instant she left.
PICARD: Right in the middle of the battle with the Romulans.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Is there any possibility she could survive?
DATA: None, sir.
PICARD: Then sending them back would be a death sentence.

[War room]
PICARD: I need more.
GUINAN: There is no more. I wish there were. I wish I could prove it. But I can't.
PICARD: Then I can't ask them to go back.
GUINAN: You've got to.
PICARD: Guinan, they will die moments after they return. How can I ask them to sacrifice themselves based solely on your intuition?
GUINAN: I don't know. But I do know that this is a mistake. Every fiber in my being says this is a mistake. I can't explain it to myself so I can't explain it to you. I only know that I'm right.
PICARD: Who is to say that this history is any less proper than the other?
GUINAN: I suppose I am.
PICARD: Not good enough, damn it. Not good enough. I will not ask them to die.
GUINAN: Forty billion people have already died. This war's not supposed to be happening. You've got to send those people back to correct this.
PICARD: And what is to guarantee that if they go back they will succeed? Every instinct tells me this is wrong, it is dangerous, it is futile.
GUINAN: We've known each other a long time. You have never known me to impose myself on anyone or take a stance based on trivial or whimsical perceptions. This time line must not be allowed to continue. Now, I've told you what you must do. You have only your trust in me to help you decide to do it.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: Captain, are you suggesting that we let them return and attempt to complete their mission?
PICARD: I am, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Based on Guinan's intuition?
RIKER: That won't accomplish anything, sir. There's no way they can save Narendra Three.
TASHA: Captain Garrett says there were four Romulan warbirds. The Enterprise-C would be outmanned and outgunned.
LAFORGE: Unless we were to re-arm them with modern
PICARD: We can't do that. If we send that ship back with new technology we will be altering the past.
RIKER: But that's what you're talking about anyway, isn't it? Altering the past.
PICARD: We're talking about restoring the past.
LAFORGE: How could Guinan know that history has been altered if she's been altered along with the rest of us?
DATA: Perhaps her species has a perception that goes beyond linear time.
PICARD: There are many things about her species we can't easily explained. Yet it is very possible she is correct. A ship from the past has traveled through time. How can we know what effect those events will have on the present. Indeed, we shall never know for certain, if Guinan is correct. But I have decided the consequences of that possibility are too grave to ignore. Dismissed.
RIKER: Sir, if you'd like my opinion
PICARD: I think I'm aware of your opinion, Commander. This is a briefing. I'm not seeking your consent.
RIKER: With all due respect, sir, you'd be asking one hundred and twenty five people to die a meaningless death.
DATA: Not necessarily meaningless, Commander. The Klingons regard honor above all else. If the crew of the Enterprise-C had died fighting for the survival of a Klingon outpost, it would be considered a meaningful act of honor by the Klingon Empire.
PICARD: Even their deaths might have prevented this war. If the Enterprise-C returns to the battle and its mission is a success, history will be irrevocably changed. This time line will cease to exist and a new future will have been created. I've considered the alternatives. I'll go with Guinan's recommendation. Dismissed.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: If she's right, we may not even be in an alternate time line.
LAFORGE: Yeah, who knows if we're dead or alive.

[Turbolift]
DATA: Engineering. Is Engineering your destination as well?
TASHA: What? Oh, deck six. Sorry.
DATA: If I interpret your facial expressions correctly, you are preoccupied with something unpleasant.
TASHA: No, I was just thinking about a lot of things. I've been working with one of the officers on the Enterprise-C. He's nice. I like him. I'm worried about what's going to happen to him.
DATA: We may never know what happens. If they succeed, we will not even realize that these events occurred.

[1701D Bridge]
DATA: The Klingon vessel has recloaked, sir. I have no readings.
PICARD: Captain Garrett, damage report.

[1701C Bridge]
PICARD: Captain Garrett.
TASHA: This is Lieutenant Yar, sir. Captain Garrett is dead.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: Can I get you something, Tasha?
TASHA: Guinan, I have to know something. What happens to me in the other time line?
GUINAN: I don't have alternate biographies of the crew. As I said to the captain, it's just a feeling.
TASHA: But there's something more when you look at me, isn't there? I can see it in your eyes, Guinan. We've known each other too long.
GUINAN: We weren't meant to know each other at all. At least, that's what I sense when I look at you. Tasha, you're not supposed to be here.
TASHA: Where am I supposed to be?
GUINAN: Dead.
TASHA: Do you know how?
GUINAN: No. But I do know it was an empty death. A death without purpose.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come. Yes, Lieutenant?
TASHA: Captain, I request a transfer to the Enterprise-C.
PICARD: For what reason?
TASHA: They need someone at Tactical.
PICARD: We need you here.
TASHA: I'm not supposed to be here, sir.
PICARD: Sit down, Lieutenant. What did she say to you?
TASHA: I don't belong here, sir. I'm supposed to be dead.
PICARD: She felt it necessary to reveal that to you?
TASHA: I felt it was necessary.
PICARD: I see. You realize that it is very possible the Enterprise-C will fail. We will continue in this time line in which case your life, hopefully, will continue for a long while.
TASHA: I know how important it is that they don't fail, Captain. That's why I'm requesting this transfer.
PICARD: You don't belong on that ship, Lieutenant.
TASHA: No, Captain Garrett belongs on that ship. But she's dead. And I think there's a certain logic in this request.
PICARD: There's no logic in this at all. Whether they succeed or not, the Enterprise-C will be destroyed.
TASHA: But Captain, at least with someone at Tactical, they will have a chance to defend themselves well. It may be a matter of seconds or minutes, but those could be the minutes that change history. Guinan says I died a senseless death in the other time line. I didn't like the sound of that, Captain. I've always known the risks that come with a Starfleet uniform. If I'm to die in one, I'd like my death to count for something.
PICARD: Lieutenant. Permission granted.
TASHA: Thank you, sir.

[1701D Bridge]
RIKER: Number and type of ships, Mister Crusher?
WESLEY: Three K'vort class battlecruisers, sir.
PICARD: They're not even troubling to cloak themselves.
RIKER: They shouldn't be so confident after the pasting we gave them on Archer Four.
PICARD: Attention all hands. As you know, we could outrun the Klingon vessels, but we must protect the Enterprise-C until she enters the temporal rift. And we must succeed. Let's make sure history never forgets the name Enterprise. Picard out.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: Shields are holding, sir.
PICARD: Hold fire. Mister Crusher, come about to course one four eight zero zero three.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Photon torpedoes ready.
PICARD: Dispersal pattern, sierra. And fire!
DATA: One enemy target hit, sir. Moderate damage to their forward shields. Our shields are still holding. Minor damage to secondary hull.
PICARD: Course one four eight. Correction, course one seven zero mark zero one four.
WESLEY: Sir, one of the ships is breaking off and going towards the Enterprise-C.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, keep us within two hundred kilometers of the Enterprise-C.
WESLEY: Coming to two one seven mark one one five. Increasing to two thirds impulse.
RIKER: Damage control teams, deck fourteen.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Engineering to bridge. Starboard power coupling is down. Containment field generator three is damaged. Attempting to bypass.

[Bridge]
RIKER: If we lose antimatter containment
PICARD: Acknowledged, La Forge.
WESLEY: Sir, the Klingons are flanking us, attempting to draw us away from the Enterprise-C.
PICARD: Hold course, Mister Crusher. Continual fire, all phasers.
DATA: One enemy target destroyed, sir.
PICARD: Damage report.
RIKER: Heavy casualties in the secondary hull. Navigational sensor array inoperative.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Antimatter containment fields are failing. If I can't stabilize them, I'll have to dump the reactor core or she'll blow!

[Bridge]
DATA: Shields buckling, Captain. They will not
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I can't hold the antimatter containment fields. Initiating emergency shutdown!
LAFORGE: Coolant leak! Bridge, we have a coolant leak in the engine core! I can't shut it down. I estimate two minutes to a warp core breach!
LAFORGE: Go! Go! Go!

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: No. No, everything's fine. Sorry to bother you.
GUINAN: Geordi, tell me about Tasha Yar.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: He sent for you too?
TROI: Yes. He was very mysterious.
WESLEY: Does you have any idea what this is about?
LAFORGE: Something happened at that cybernetics conference. Since he's come back he's spent every off duty minute in that lab.
TROI: It's not like Data to be so secretive.
WESLEY: And cautious. He kept the lab locked every minute.
LAFORGE: Now how would you know that? Ah ha.
DATA: Oh, you are early. Just a moment please.

[Laboratory]
DATA: Lal has a positronic brain one very similar to my own. I began programming it at the cybernetics conference.
LAFORGE: But nobody's ever been able to do that, Data, at least not since you were programmed.
DATA: True, but here was a new submicron matrix transfer technology introduced at the conference which I discovered could be used to lay down complex neural net pathways.
WESLEY: So you did a transfer from your brain into Lal's.
DATA: Exactly, Wesley. I realized for the first time it was possible to continue Doctor Soong's work. My initial transfers produced very encouraging results, so I brought Lal's brain back with me.
PICARD: Data, I would like to have been consulted.
DATA: I have not observed anyone else on board consulting you about their procreation, Captain.
TROI: Why didn't you give it a more human look, Data?
DATA: I decided to allow my child to choose its own sex and appearance.
PICARD: Commander Data, at your convenience, I would like to talk to you in my Ready room. Counselor?

[Corridor]
PICARD: I insist we do whatever we can to discourage the perception of this new android as a child. It is not a child. It is an invention, albeit an extraordinary one.
TROI: Why should biology rather than technology determine whether it is a child? Data has created an offspring. A new life out of his own being. To me, that suggests a child. If he wishes to call Lal his child, then who are we to argue?
PICARD: Well, if he must, but I fail to understand how a five foot android with heuristic learning systems and the strength of a ten men can be called a child.
TROI: You've never been a parent.

[Ready room]
PICARD: What you have done will have serious ramifications. I am truly dismayed that you told no one of what you were doing.
DATA: I am sorry, Captain. I did not anticipate your objections. Do you wish me to deactivate Lal?
PICARD: It's a life, Data. It can't be activated and deactivated simply. This is a most stupendous undertaking. Have you any idea what will happen when Starfleet learns about this?
DATA: I have followed all of Starfleet regulations to the best of my ability. I expected they would be pleased.
PICARD: Well, you have taken on quite a responsibility, Data.
DATA: To prepare, I have scanned all available literature on parenting. There seems to be much confusion on this issue. One traditional doctrine insists, spare the rod and spoil the child, suggesting a punitive approach. While another more liberal attitude would allow the child enormous freedom.
PICARD: Data
DATA: And what Klingons do to their children
PICARD: Data! I'm not talking about parenting. I am talking about the extraordinary consequences of creating new life.
DATA: Does that not describe becoming a parent, sir?
PICARD: Data, you are seeking to achieve what only your own creator has been able to achieve. To make another functioning, sentient, android. To make another Data.
DATA: That is why I must attempt this, sir. I have observed that in most species, there is a primal instinct to perpetuate themselves. Until now, I have been the last of my kind. If I were to be damaged or destroyed, I would be lost forever. But if I am successful with the creation of Lal, my continuance is assured. I understand the risk, sir. and I am prepared to accept the responsibility.

[Laboratory]
DATA: I have completed the assembly of the replicated anatomy. I was able to provide Lal with more realistic skin and eye color than my own.
TROI: Congratulations, Data. It's a girl.

[Crusher's office]
DATA: Doctor? I require your advice as a successful parent.
CRUSHER: Well, thank you, Data. I'd like to think I was. Well, please sit down. How's Lal?
DATA: Lal is realizing she is not the same as other children.
CRUSHER: Is it lonely for her?
DATA: She does not feel the emotion of loneliness, but she can observe how isolated she is from the others. She wishes to be more like them. I do not know how to help her. Lal is passing into sentience. It is perhaps the most difficult stage of her development.
CRUSHER: When Wesley was growing up, he was an extraordinarily bright boy, but he had a hard time making friends. I think the other children were a little intimidated by him.
DATA: That is precisely what happened to Lal in school. How did you help him?
CRUSHER: Well, first I went back to my own childhood and remembered how painful it was for me. Because I remember a time when I wasn't very popular either. And when I told that to Wesley, it made him feel a little better. He knew I understood what he was going through.
DATA: I have not told Lal how difficult it was for me to assimilate. I did not wish it to discourage her. Perhaps this was an error of judgment.
CRUSHER: You didn't have any one experienced to help you through sentience. She at least has you. Just help her realize that she's not alone, and be there to nurture her when she needs love and attention.
DATA: I can give her attention, Doctor. But I am incapable of giving her love.
CRUSHER: Now why do I find that so hard to believe?

[Ready room]
DATA: I am certain the Admiral is anxious to meet Lal. I have been sending him regular status reports on her development.
PICARD: His visit is not just an inspection of Lal's progress. He has expressed a concern for her environment.
DATA: Her environment, sir?
PICARD: He believes the Daystrom annex on Galor Four would be more suitable.
DATA: Then he wishes to relocate us?
PICARD: Not you, Data. Just her.
DATA: I would not be in favor of that, sir. There are many things that she can learn only from me. My lifetime of experiences. The mistakes I have made and what I have learned from them.
WORF: Captain, Commander Riker's shuttle has just returned.
PICARD: Acknowledged, Lieutenant. Will you advise Commander Riker I will meet with him in one hour. Picard out. The Admiral is taking the position that Lal's development should be overseen by the most experienced personnel.
DATA: Then he is questioning my ability as a parent.
PICARD: In a manner of speaking.
DATA: Does the Admiral have children?
PICARD: Yes, I believe he does, Data. Why?
DATA: I am forced to wonder how much experience he had as a parent when his first child was born.

[Bridge]
DATA: Lal suffered complete neural system failure at thirteen hundred hours. I have deactivated the unit.
PICARD: The crew is saddened by your loss, Mister Data.
DATA: I thank you for your sympathy, but she is here. Her presence so enriched my life that I could not allow her to pass into oblivion. So I incorporated her programs back into my own. I have transferred her memories to me.
PICARD: Mister Data, will you take your position? Mister Crusher? Lay in a course for the starbase on Otar Two.
WESLEY: Course is set, sir.
PICARD: Engage.

[Corridor]
PICARD: We must take care that while he is with us, Commander Kurn is accorded all the rights and responsibilities due the first officer of this ship. If he should feel patronized in any way
RIKER: I'm sure we'd know. One does not patronize a Klingon warrior.
PICARD: Your experience on board the Pagh will prove invaluable during the commander's tour. Be sure that the crew is prepared for any unusual orders.
RIKER: The Klingons are very thorough. I'm sure Commander Kurn has studied for his assignment just as I did when I served with them.
PICARD: I understand that he requested the Enterprise specifically.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Mind if I join you?
WESLEY: No, sir.
RIKER: Is there something wrong, Wes? Commander Kurn perhaps?
WESLEY: He just doesn't seem to like me. I can't do anything right for him. Every time I respond to an order he jumps down my throat. I don't know what I'm doing wrong.
RIKER: Problem, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. It's our new first officer.
RIKER: I take it he found something wrong in Engineering?
LAFORGE: Just the entire section. He pulled a surprise inspection in the middle of a maintenance cycle! I tried to explain it to him
RIKER: But he wouldn't listen.
LAFORGE: We're all going to be doing double shifts down there just to ready for the next inspection.
RIKER: His style of command is just different. Klingons believe in obedience and a strict formality of command.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but this isn't a Klingon vessel. He's going to have to loosen up, Commander.
WESLEY: It's not just us. He's been leaning into everybody pretty hard, except
LAFORGE: Except the one guy who wouldn't really mind it.

[Ready room]
PICARD: What are the allegations, Worf?
WORF: My father is accused of aiding and abetting the Romulan attack on the Khitomer outpost.
PICARD: The attack in which he himself was killed? But why now, after twenty years?
WORF: I do not know, Captain. I will hear the evidence when I arrive. The charge has been made by Duras, the son of my father's greatest rival. Our family name will be disgraced for seven generations. It is my responsibility to clear his name or answer for his crimes.
PICARD: Answer for them?
WORF: The family of a Klingon warrior is responsible for his actions and he is responsible for theirs. If I fail in my challenge, I will be executed. Will you grant my leave, Captain?
PICARD: No. If I understand correctly, a Starfleet officer, a respected member of my crew, could be accused of a capital crime. Your actions in this matter will reflect on this ship and on the Federation. Therefore, it seems only appropriate that your captain should be at your side while you make your challenge. I'm sure you would do no less for me.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What Federation starship was closest to Khitomer at the time of the attack?
DATA: The USS Intrepid was the first ship on the scene, sir.
RIKER: Contact Starfleet, request all logs of the Intrepid. Riker to Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER: Crusher here.
RIKER: Doctor, I want you to look over the medical records from all the rescue vessels that responded to the Khitomer massacre. See if there's any information on the aftermath that might help us.
CRUSHER: Understood.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: What kind of a weapon makes a vicious wound like that?
WORF: It is a kut'luch. The ceremonial weapon of an assassin.
CRUSHER: Fortunately his metabolic recovery is phenomenal. He will be all right
WORF: It does not matter. We should have let him die. Now that Duras knows his bloodlines, we will both be executed.
CRUSHER: You sound like you've already lost, Worf.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, I have discovered the basis of the charges against Worf's father. Apparently the Klingons recently captured a Romulan ship with logs that provided new information on the Khitomer attack. They clearly indicate a transmission from the outpost to the Romulan ship moments before the shields went down.
LAFORGE: From Worf's father?
DATA: They do correspond to Mogh's personal security code.
RIKER: How can we be sure these records haven't been falsified?
LAFORGE: We can cross check them against the Intrepid's sensor logs.
DATA: I will try, but the Intrepid was at the edge of sensor range during the attack and we cannot be sure if the scan was complete.
LAFORGE: Looks like a pretty good match-up, Data
DATA: Both the Intrepid and Romulan logs show a series of distress signals from Khitomer.
RIKER: What happened there.
LAFORGE: Those are gaps in the Intrepid's logs. Missing information due to the range.
DATA: That is where Mogh's alleged transmission should be.
RIKER: Right in the middle of the gap?
LAFORGE: Wait a second, Data. Back up. Just before the Intrepid's gap begins, the timebase of both files are in perfect sync. But look. Look at what happens to the signal after the shields are dropped.
DATA: They are no longer synchronous.
LAFORGE: Commander, somebody's been rewriting history.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I do not pretend to fully understand the nuances of your world's law or culture, Lieutenant, but I do understand when somebody is trying to hide something.
WORF: K'mpec urged me to drop my challenge, abandon my family honor. It was impossible to believe I was hearing a Klingon speak
PICARD: Obviously, they did not expect and never wanted this challenge. You're getting close to something, Lieutenant. Something they care a great deal about protecting.
WORF: If it is true, it is not just Duras but the High Council itself that is my enemy. Captain, I must choose another cha'DIch. I would like your permission to ask one of the crew.
PICARD: Well of course, Lieutenant. Choose whomever you wish.
WORF: Then I would ask you to stand with me. You may refuse with no dishonor.
PICARD: Thank you, Lieutenant. I appreciate the gesture, but I know that there are stronger and younger men from whom to choose.
WORF: I can think of no one I would rather have at my side.
PICARD: jIlajneS. ghIj qet jaghmeyjaj. I accept.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: I've got something. Worf was not the only survivor of the Khitomer massacre.
RIKER: Another child?
CRUSHER: No. A Klingon woman was found with Worf.
RIKER: Kahlest. Who was she?
CRUSHER: I don't know, but the report said she was severely injured, was transferred to Starbase twenty four for treatment. That was when she was separated from Worf. And after her recovery, she returned home.
RIKER: We've got to find her, if she's still alive. Data, scan the Klingon central net. See if there's any record of her.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We've located another survivor of the Khitomer massacre, Captain a woman who was found with Worf. Her name is Kahlest.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, ship's sensors detect an abnormal energy reading in the Captain's quarters.
RIKER: Type?
DATA: Undetermined.
RIKER: Riker to Captain Picard.
WORF: Security team to Captain's quarters.

[Holding cell]
PICARD: Picard to Enterprise. Anyone receiving this transmission, please respond.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: We're a mission that has no apparent purpose. In itself, I can accept that. All of us can, because the Captain says it's important and we trust him. Then he runs the crew through efficiency drills for the first time in my tour of duty, but he says we need them, so we need them, because we trust our Captain. But we also have a captain singing drinking songs with his men.
LAFORGE: A Captain who's come to the poker game for the first time.
TROI: And he was very odd with me afterwards. He wanted me to warn him if the crew started to lose confidence in him.
RIKER: Any signs of mental stress or trauma?
CRUSHER: He came in for a physical with no word from me.
WORF: Anything unusual, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Every test result identical to his last physical, which is kind of unusual in itself, actually.
RIKER: Almost as though he wanted to establish that there was nothing wrong.
CRUSHER: There was one other thing. He asked me to dinner in his cabin, and it was a very unusual evening.
RIKER: Which brings up a very serious possibility. What if there's an outside influence at work here?
TROI: I detect no evidence of telepathic coercion.
DATA: Commander, there is still one fact we have not considered. The abnormal energy reading in the Captain's quarters was never explained.
WORF: It is not enough evidence to justify mutiny.
RIKER: Nobody has suggested removing the Captain from command. Right now, all we have are suspicions. Not enough to act upon. The next move is his.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
CRUSHER: Sir, it's been brought to my attention one of the crew has been neglecting his health again.
PICARD: How so?
CRUSHER: It's a classic case of stress-related ailments brought on by overwork. Exhaustion, irritability, muscle spasms. Yet he insists on ignoring them.
PICARD: Doesn't sound too serious.
CRUSHER: And I plan to keep it that way.
PICARD: What's the treatment.
CRUSHER: A week's shore leave.
PICARD: Impossible.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I could make that an order.
PICARD: But you won't. Beverly, you know I loathe vacations.
CRUSHER: You loathe going on vacations. Once you're there you have a marvelous time. You told me your four days on Zytchin Three were wonderful.
PICARD: I lied. Look, the Enterprise is scheduled to spend a week undergoing maintenance overhaul at Starbase twelve. While there, I promise that I will make full use of available recreation activity.
CRUSHER: Watching some technician fill deuterium tanks is not my idea of fun.
PICARD: I suppose I could find a few hours to spend on the holodeck.
CRUSHER: Forget the holodeck. Isn't there someplace you want to go?
PICARD: The Astrophysics Center on Icor Nine is holding a symposium on rogue star clusters. I had given serious thought to attending.
CRUSHER: The last thing you need is serious thought. Jean-Luc, why don't you go some place beautiful, where you can relax and be pampered. You deserve it.
PICARD: I'll give it serious thought.
CRUSHER: Captain.
PICARD: Doctor. Enough.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: So, have you decided where you're going yet?
PICARD: Yes I have, Number One. Bridge.
RIKER: No, I meant on your shore leave.
PICARD: Not you too.
RIKER: Halt. I know this perfect little vacation spot. In fact, it falls within the coordinates of this sector.
PICARD: How convenient. Except, Number One, I have absolutely no intention of taking a holiday. Is that clear?
RIKER: Very clear.
PICARD: Good. I'm glad we've got that straightened out. Resume.
RIKER: The place is called Risa, and believe me, Captain, it is a paradise. Warm tropical breezes, exotic food. Nothing to do but sit around all day and enjoy the quiet. And then PICARD +
RIKER: The women.
PICARD: Of course.
RIKER: I'm sure you would find their sybaritic outlook on life very appealing.
PICARD: Oh, I'm sure.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I'm glad to hear you say so, sir.
PICARD: Unfortunately, this vessel is about to undergo extensive repairs requiring my personal supervision.
RIKER: What about Risa?
PICARD: Some other time, Number One.
TROI: Will, I've just had some terrific news.
RIKER: Really?
TROI: There's an excellent chance my mother may be joining us on Starbase twelve.
PICARD: Your mother?
TROI: She's returning home from a conference on Achrady Seven, and she's going to try to rearrange her schedule so she can spend some time visiting with us.
RIKER: That's wonderful, Deanna.
TROI: She mentioned how much she was looking forward to seeing you again, Captain.
PICARD: Did she? Commander, could I have a word with you?

[Ready room]
RIKER: Is something wrong, Captain?
PICARD: Tell me, Number One, is the entire crew aware of this little scheme to send me off on holiday?
RIKER: I believe there are two ensigns stationed on deck thirty nine who know nothing about it.
PICARD: I suppose this means I can look forward to a week of continual harassment on this subject? I admit, I've been feeling a little fatigued.

[Picard's quarters]
RIKER: I'll see to it that these bags are beamed directly to your room, sir.
TROI: You look very handsome, if I might saying so Captain.
RIKER: Are you taking all these books?
PICARD: I thought I'd take some light reading in case I got bored.
RIKER: Ulysses by James Joyce? Ethics, Sophistry and the Alternate Universe by Ving Kuda. You call that light reading?
PICARD: To each his own, Number One.
RIKER: Have I mentioned how imaginative the Risian women are, sir?
TROI: Too often, Commander.

[Corridor]
RIKER: I do have one request, sir.
PICARD: You want me to bring you back a souvenir?
RIKER: It's called a Horga'hn. I don't think you'll have any trouble finding one.
PICARD: Consider it done.
WORF: Captain, I would feel better if you would allow me to assign a security officer to you. We will be out of communication range when we leave orbit.
PICARD: I really don't think that will be necessary, Mister Worf. Risa has a reputation of being a most peaceful planet.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Well, the ship is yours, Number One.
TROI: Enjoy your trip, Captain.
PICARD: I'll try, Counselor.
RIKER: He's going to have a great time.

[Picard's room]
RIKER: Enterprise to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Picard here.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go ahead, Commander.
RIKER: We hope we're not interrupting anything important, Captain, but we wanted to inform you that we have achieved orbit around Risa and we're ready to beam you aboard at your convenience.

[Picard's room]
PICARD: I'll be returning shortly, Commander. In the interim, stand ready to initiate transporter code fourteen at my signal.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Transporter code fourteen?

[Picard's room]
PICARD: You heard me, Number One.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[Picard's room]
PICARD: Picard out.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Welcome aboard, Captain.
PICARD: Status report, Number One?
RIKER: All went well on Starbase twelve. I think you'll find the ship to be in splendid condition.
PICARD: I'll present my compliments to the crew. Oh yes, Number One, about that Horga'hn you requested.
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: You and I need to have a little chat about that.
TROI: Was it a relaxing trip, Captain?
PICARD: Uh huh.
RIKER: I knew he'd have a great time.

[Corridor]
TROI: Tam is a telepath of extraordinary talent, even for a Betazoid. He's a specialist in first contact with new life forms.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: I've heard something about Ghorusda. Weren't there about forty people killed?
RIKER: Forty seven, including the captain of the Adelphi and two friends from my class at the Academy.
LAFORGE: Sorry.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Main Bridge.
LAFORGE: So what happened?
RIKER: It was a first contact situation. Ghorusdan culture is so complex and different, that the Federation sent a specialist to prevent misunderstanding.
LAFORGE: So that was Tam Elbrun. What happened was his fault?
RIKER: Not directly. Board of inquiry blamed Darson for carelessness about Ghorusdan cultural taboos. But if Elbrun was so good, why didn't he warn Darson? What was he doing there if he couldn't sense that much hostility?

[Bridge]
DATA: Our destination is the Beta Stromgren system, following the path of the Vega Nine probe.
RIKER: That's twenty three parsecs beyond our furthest manned explorations.
DATA: That is correct, Commander. Apparently the probe has discovered. Astonishing.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: Well, according to his medical records and psych profile, he's very high on the ESP scale. A sort of prodigy.
PICARD: A prodigy? In what sense?
TROI: Well, in most Betazoids our telepathic gifts develop at adolescence.
PICARD: You mean you're not born reading minds?
TROI: No. Except for some reason that no one understands, occasionally a Betazoid child is born different.
PICARD: How different?
CRUSHER: Born with his telepathic abilities switched on.
TROI: Most Betazoids born like that never lead a normal life.
CRUSHER: The noise of other people's thoughts and feelings must be overwhelming, incomprehensible, especially to a child.
TROI: And painful. Early diagnosis and special training did help Tam adjust, but he has some problems.
PICARD: You mentioned a hospitalization.
TROI: For stress. Repeatedly, throughout his life.
CRUSHER: I always wonder what holds one person together through that kind of struggle, while another goes under?
PICARD: Yes, well, he's evidently done more than hold together. He's the indispensable man. The Federation's finest specialist in communication with unknown life forms.
CRUSHER: The more unusual a life form is, the better he likes it. His personnel file shows that he's gravitated toward assignments that isolate him from other humanoids.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Commander Data, I'm picking up an unusual echo from my navigational sensors.
WORF: Something is out there, sir, tracking us, matching our speed and heading. Something which does not fully register on our instruments.
DATA: Since there is no known natural phenomenon capable of travel at warp velocities, there are but two possibilities. Either it is a sensor malfunction, another ship is following us covertly.
WORF: It is not a sensor malfunction.
DATA: Agreed.
WESLEY: But Commander, if it is a Romulan ship, with their cloaking device we shouldn't pick them up at all.
LAFORGE: Unless they're pulling so much power for something else that they can't fully cloak.
WESLEY: Like what?
LAFORGE: Ask the Romulans. If it is the Romulans.
DATA: Lieutenant, continue monitoring the precise position of the echo. Any sudden change in its behavior, initiate Yellow Alert.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We've got impulse power, but I've got to take the warp engines offline while we recalibrate the intermix regulators.
RIKER: How long?
LAFORGE: For everything, or just for the warp engine?
RIKER: All of it.
LAFORGE: Commander, we're looking at twenty hours work here, double shifts.
RIKER: We don't know that we have twenty hours. That star could explode at any moment.
LAFORGE: I know. Okay, first thing we need to do is get the main computer working right.
RIKER: No, we fix the shields first.
LAFORGE: Commander, whatever Tin Man hit us with, it fried circuits I thought were unfryable.
RIKER: I'm not worried about Tin Man. It's more Romulans showing up.
LAFORGE: Right. First priority, get the shields up. Only let's not have any more surprises till I'm done, okay?
RIKER: Don't ask me about surprises. Ask Tam Elbrun.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: On your panel?
RIKER: Worf?
WORF: One moment, Commander. Confirmed. Sir, the other Romulan ship on an intercept course.
RIKER: Geordi, are we going to have those shields anytime soon?
LAFORGE: I'm doing the best I can

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: But shields won't help if that star explodes.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Data, you seem to have developed an affinity with Elbrun. Troi, you've known him for years. How far can he be trusted?
TROI: Captain, the issue isn't one of trust in Tam's intentions, but in his judgment. I would trust him to do what he believes is right
PICARD: Yes, of course. But his judgment
TROI: Is precarious. The stress of exposure to so many minds on the ship is bad enough. Now he's strongly drawn to this creature. I'm afraid for him.
PICARD: Afraid of what?
TROI: I sense that the alien is somehow calling him. If we allow him to do as he insists, to beam over, I'm believe that we will lose him to it. That he will lose himself.
DATA: Captain, I agree that Tam's motives are trustworthy, and I do not believe it is possible that he will act against us, or will cause Tin Man to act against us out of malice.
TROI: Captain, if Tam breaks down over there, we'll be no closer to accomplishing our mission. It would be a grave mistake.
PICARD: Thank you both.
PICARD: Data?
DATA: I am puzzled, sir. We have come this far. Are you not going to allow Tam to fulfilll his mission?
PICARD: Tam Elbrun warned Tin Man. The first thing it did was to destroy a space vessel.
DATA: I believe I understand, sir. If you feel the risk is too great to send Tam Elbrun alone, then send me with him.
PICARD: Counselor Troi understands him better.
DATA: But he is more comfortable with me, sir. It is humanity he is fleeing. Sir, I can serve as an intermediary, a bridge back. A reminder of his obligations both to us and to Tin Man.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: O'Brien to Bridge.
PICARD: Go ahead, Chief.
O'BRIEN: I lost the transporter lock on them.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: Some kind of force field went up.
WORF: Confirmed. The alien has thrown up a shield. It is blocking all our sensors. Captain, the Romulans' weapons systems are now at full power.
PICARD: Follow them in, Mister Crusher. Red Alert. Mister Worf, arm photon torpedoes.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: That star's going to go any minute, sir.
PICARD: The Romulans know that as well as we do.
WORF: Power levels aboard Tin Man are increasing beyond our sensor range.
PICARD: Conn report.
WESLEY: Dead stop, Captain. Sir, we've been thrown clear of Beta Stromgren. A distance of three point eight billion kilometers.
WORF: There is no sign of Tin Man or the Romulans, sir. Captain, on screen.
PICARD: Data.
DATA: Sir?
PICARD: Data, what happened over there?
DATA: Difficult to explain, Captain.
TROI: Tam?
DATA: I believe he found what he was looking for, Counselor.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. With all main systems at least temporarily restored, we are proceeding to Starbase one five two for inspection and additional repairs. We have had no further encounter with the Romulans. As for the whereabouts of Tin Man and Tam Elbrun, we can only speculate.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: You sent for me?
DATA: Yes, Counselor. It was Tam's final request that I explain his decision to the crew. But I believe his hope was that you would understand.
TROI: What did happen?
DATA: I witnessed something remarkable. Individually they were both so
TROI: Wounded? Isolated?
DATA: Yes. But no longer. Through joining they have been healed. Grief has been transmuted to joy. Loneliness to belonging.
TROI: Data, you do understand.
DATA: Yes, Counselor. When Tin Man returned me to the Enterprise, I realized this is where I belong.

[Cargo bay]
BARCLAY: Everything looks it looks normal to me.
LAFORGE: Computer, activate anti-grav unit.
O'BRIEN: Damn it.
BARCLAY: I, I don't understand.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Engineering. I'll need more people in Cargo Bay Five. Anyone you can spare. La Forge out. We could use a hand, Mister Barclay.
BARCLAY: I'll disassemble it later, Commander. It shouldn't do that. Well, I mean, of course, it shouldn't do that. Well, I mean, it shouldn't do that.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I'm not accustomed to seeing an unsatisfactory rating for one of my crew.
RIKER: I guess the issue is whether Mister Barclay is Enterprise material.
PICARD: I assume from your request for his transfer that you think he's not, Commander.
LAFORGE: I hate to say it but, I always thought I could work with anybody. But I just don't understand this guy. Broccoli makes me nervous, Captain. He makes everybody nervous.
PICARD: Broccoli?
RIKER: Young Mister Crusher started that. I guess it's caught on.
PICARD: Let's just get that uncaught, shall we? There's every indication he's served competently in Starfleet for years. His ratings aboard the Zhukov were satisfactory. In fact I recall Captain Gleason speaking quite highly of him before his transfer.
RIKER: In retrospect, I wonder if Captain Gleason wasn't buttering our bread a little. He knew we were looking for a diagnostic engineer. I've examined Barclay's psychological profile. He's a history of seclusive tendencies. It was noted at the Academy more than once.
PICARD: And yet he chose this way of life. He has made the same commitment to Starfleet that we all have. It's easy to transfer a problem to someone else. Too easy.
LAFORGE: Captain, it's not like I haven't tried.
PICARD: Try harder, Geordi. He's a member of your team. Try to find some way to help him to make a positive contribution. Get to know the man better. Make him your best friend.
LAFORGE: With all respect, sir, my best friend? I can barely tolerate being in the same room with the man.
PICARD: Then I suggest you put your personal discomfort on one side, Commander. Dismissed.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Hey, Reg. How, er, how's it going?
BARCLAY: Oh, it's, er, I still haven't traced down the problem, Commander.
LAFORGE: That's all right. There's no problem.
BARCLAY: I've been planning to run diagnostics on the graviton invertor circuits.
LAFORGE: Smart plan. I'd say we're in good hands here.
BARCLAY: I'll see you get a preliminary report.
LAFORGE: Whenever.
BARCLAY: Before the end of the day.
LAFORGE: Fine. Say, Reg, how about sitting in on the mission briefing with my senior officers in the morning?
BARCLAY: The briefing? Me?
LAFORGE: I'd like your input.
BARCLAY: What on? Do, do, do you want me to prepare a
LAFORGE: No, no, just be there. Eight hundred hours.
BARCLAY: I'll be on time, sir.
LAFORGE: Good. Good. Carry on.

[Troi's office]
BARCLAY: I just didn't know what to say.
TROI: What do you wish you had said?
BARCLAY: I should have told him to mind his own damned business. I knew about the flux capacitor. I didn't need to hear about it from some seventeen year old kid.
TROI: You're letting it get you much too upset.
BARCLAY: You think so?
TROI: Why are you so hard on yourself?
BARCLAY: You don't know. It's hard out there.
TROI: I understand, but let go of it. You're here now.
BARCLAY: You're right, of course.
TROI: Of course. Let me help you relax.
BARCLAY: I'd like that.
TROI: I knew you would.
BARCLAY: That's nice, but I'm in the mood for someplace a little more unusual. Computer. Run Barclay program fifteen.

[Holodeck - Glade]
TROI: I am the goddess of Empathy. Cast off your inhibitions and embrace love, truth, joy.

[Engineering]
DATA: Nucleosynthesis. The structure of the glass has been altered at the atomic level.
LAFORGE: A problem with the replicator?
DATA: Unlikely. A problem with the replicator would have affected the contents as well as the glass. But the liquid in the glass was a synthehol replication of a light ale of Earth origin, which is, I believe what Lieutenant Duffy ordered.
LAFORGE: I can't detect any residual radiation or unusual chemical compounds that would have caused this.
DATA: The most probable explanation is that the glass came into contact with an unshielded power source.
LAFORGE: That means a complete diagnostic check of the Enterprise power systems. All four thousand of them. Do I have the perfect man for this job. Hey, Reg. Busy?
BARCLAY: Well, I was just. No, not really. Why?
LAFORGE: I've got another mystery for you. Somehow the molecular structure of this cup from Ten Forward has been altered. We need to run through the power systems to see if there's a leak that caused this.
BARCLAY: I had, I was going to do that.
LAFORGE: You were?
BARCLAY: Yes. To, to try to explain the anti-grav unit failure. I still can't. Nothing about it makes sense.
DATA: Then it is possible these two very disparate incidents could be related.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I wouldn't bother you with something this minor, Commander, but it may be a symptom of a more serious problem.
RIKER: Do you think we'll need to put in to a starbase?
LAFORGE: We'll have a better idea after Mister Barclay runs a check on the power systems.
DATA: It was Lieutenant Barclay who first suggested a link between the two incidents.
BARCLAY: What? No, it wasn't. I mean, not really.
PICARD: Will your investigation affect our available power during the mission?
BARCLAY: No, No, sir. We'll have to shut off some systems. We'll shut them down a few at a time. It shouldn't. I don't think so.
PICARD: Good. I look forward to your report, Mister Broccoli. Barclay.
BARCLAY: If you will excuse me.
DATA: Metathesis is one of the most common of pronunciation errors, sir. A reversal of vowel and consonant, Barc to Broc.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: Yes, I know him comes in. He stands at the bar. He doesn't say much. He orders a warm milk.
LAFORGE: Figures.
GUINAN: Warm milk helps you sleep, La Forge. You should try it. What's this have to do with Barclay?
LAFORGE: I don't know. I'm just trying to figure the man out. Do you ever talk to him?
GUINAN: He doesn't talk much.
LAFORGE: Does he have any friends?
GUINAN: Not that I've seen.
LAFORGE: What do you do with a guy like that?
GUINAN: Well, I just serve him warm milk and let him be.
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, I'm not so lucky. I can't let him be. He's my problem.
GUINAN: Well, he's imaginative.
LAFORGE: How do you know that?
GUINAN: I know.
LAFORGE: Well, then maybe he's in the wrong line of work.
GUINAN: You engineering types don't appreciate imagination?
LAFORGE: That's not it, Guinan. He just doesn't fit in here.
GUINAN: Terkim.
LAFORGE: What?
GUINAN: Reminds me of Terkim. My mother's brother. Sort of the family misfit. Everybody told me to stay away from him. Bad influence.
LAFORGE: Did you?
GUINAN: Are you kidding? He was the only member of the family who had a sense of humor. Except no one ever stayed around him long enough to realize it but me. My mother tells me I remind her of him, and I probably do. The idea of fitting in just repels me.
LAFORGE: Maybe I'm not make myself clear, Guinan. Barclay, well, he's always late. The man's nervous. Nobody wants to be around this guy.
GUINAN: If I felt that nobody wanted to be around me, I'd probably be late and nervous too.
LAFORGE: Guinan, that's not the point.
GUINAN: Are you sure? Excuse me.
LAFORGE: Computer, where is Lieutenant Barclay?

[Holodeck - Glade]
LAFORGE: Reg?
LAFORGE: Beverly?
CRUSHER: Good morning, my lord. Manners, my son. Manners. You embarrass me before our guest. Master Barclay will spank you if you misbehave.
LAFORGE: Wesley ?
WESLEY: What do you want?
LAFORGE: Well, I guess I want Master Barclay.
CRUSHER: The boys got into another little scrap, I'm afraid. But boys will be boys.
LAFORGE: You cannot withstand our assault forever, Barclay.
DATA: You are outnumbered, Mister Barclay. Say you will yield and it ends here.
BARCLAY: I will speak with my sword, sir.
PICARD: In God's name, where did you learn to fight like this, man?
BARCLAY: Self taught, my capitaine. Shall I give you a few lessons?
PICARD: Who is that? One of your allies?
BARCLAY: Jean-Luc. Not that old trick. I'm very disappointed in you.

[Ten Forward]
BARCLAY: I'll make it easy for you, Commander. I'll request reassignment.
LAFORGE: Now, wait a minute.
BARCLAY: Look, we both know, the whole ship knows, I just can't cut it here.
LAFORGE: Hey, Barclay, I've spent a few hours on the holodeck too, you know. Now, as far as I'm concerned what you do in the holodeck is your own business, as long as it doesn't interfere with your work.
BARCLAY: You're, you're not going to tell anyone about this?
LAFORGE: I don't think everybody would appreciate your imagination like I do. It is kind of unusual, recreating people you already know.
BARCLAY: well, it was just. I needed to blow off some steam because one, one of the officers had been getting on my back.
LAFORGE: Let me guess.
BARCLAY: It was you, and I just couldn't tell you what I wanted to tell you to your face, so it just sort of got out of control.
LAFORGE: I don't know. There's a part of this that's kind of therapeutic. Maybe you ought to talk to Counselor Troi about it.
BARCLAY: It's, it's, I, when I'm in there I'm just more comfortable. You don't know what a struggle this has been for me, Commander.
LAFORGE: I'd like to help, if I can.
BARCLAY: Being afraid all the time, of forgetting somebody's name, not knowing what to do with your hands. I mean, I'm the guy who writes down things to remember to say when there's a party. And then when he finally get there, he winds up alone in the corner trying to look comfortable examining a potted plant.
LAFORGE: You're just shy, Barclay.
BARCLAY: Just shy. Sounds like nothing serious, doesn't it? You can't know.
O'BRIEN: O'Brien to La Forge.
LAFORGE: Go ahead.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I need you in transporter room three, Commander.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: On my way, Chief. Listen, Reg. I really do want you to talk to Counselor Troi.
BARCLAY: Troi? No, no, no, no, no. I couldn't.
LAFORGE: I mean it. As your friend and as your commanding officer.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I was synchronizing the phase transition coils, I didn't do anything I haven't done a hundred times before. The test object is made of pure duranium.
LAFORGE: Seems normal enough to me.
O'BRIEN: Watch this.
LAFORGE: I'm glad I don't have anywhere to go. Chief Engineer's log, stardate 43808.2. A systems analysis of transporter room three has yielded no suggestion of a cause for the latest malfunction aboard the Enterprise.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Is this part of the same pattern?
LAFORGE: We don't know, sir. And we don't know why only transporter room three is affected. None of the other transporter rooms are malfunctioning.
RIKER: Yet.
PICARD: We reach Nahmi Four in twenty two hours. We'll want all transporters operational by then. I want a level one diagnostic across the board.
RIKER: Advise Mister Barclay to join us on the Bridge immediately.
LAFORGE: Could we make that fourteen hundred hours, sir? I've got him working on something.
RIKER: Fourteen hundred hours. Mister O'Brien, no maintenance on the transporters until further notice.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.

[Troi's office]
TROI: I know this is difficult for you. Is there anything I can do to make you more comfortable?
BARCLAY: No.
TROI: Have you ever been with a counselor before?
BARCLAY: Yes. No.
TROI: Which one?
BARCLAY: Yes, but she, it wasn't. It wasn't really a counselor.
TROI: Most people find a counselor intimidating at first. It's okay if you feel that way toward me.
BARCLAY: Not at all.
TROI: Good. Now, lean back, close your eyes.
BARCLAY: Why?
TROI: I want to make you more comfortable.
BARCLAY: You do?
TROI: Yes.
TROI: It's okay. Close your eyes.
BARCLAY: What are you going to do?
TROI: Just listen to the sound of my voice. Take a slow deep breath in through your nose and let it out through your mouth just as slowly. That's better, isn't it?
BARCLAY: Much better. Oh, yes. Oh, yes, that's, that's much better. That is extremely helpful. Thank you for your time.
TROI: But
BARCLAY: Really. That's very helpful. In through the nose, out through the mouth. I'm going to practice that and I'll let you know. Thank you again.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: I think you should know Barclay's been running some unique programs.
RIKER: I don't care what he's been running. I just ran out of patience.

[Holodeck - Glade]
LAFORGE: Like I said, Commander, Barclay's been running some unusual programs.
RIKER: This is a violation of protocol. Crewmembers should not be simulated in the holodeck.
LAFORGE: Commander I don't think there's any regulation against
RIKER: Well there ought to be. Computer, discontinue program and erase.
TROI: Computer, belay that order.
RIKER: Counselor?
TROI: If Barclay is having difficulty facing reality, to suddenly destroy his only means of escape would be brutal and could do considerable damage. HOLO-
PICARD: They are quite disagreeable, aren't they? Shall we have at them? HOLO-
DATA: Delighted. HOLO-
LAFORGE: We shall thrash them. HOLO-
PICARD: En garde.
RIKER: Stop it. Put that down. HOLO-
DATA: Your sword, sir.
RIKER: I don't have a sword. HOLO-
LAFORGE: How do expect to fight without your sword, sir?
RIKER: I don't expect to fight. HOLO-
PICARD: Ha! Do I detect a streak of yellow along the good fellow's back? Perhaps we can supply a more appropriate adversary for him. Number One!
WESLEY: Number One! HOLO-
RIKER: Here I come. HOLO-
RIKER: Am I late? Did I miss the fight? En garde! You, sir, you have a familiar bearing. Is it possible our swords have crossed somewhere before?
RIKER: Where is he? Where's Barclay? HOLO-
RIKER: Ah, a personal grudge. I warn you. It would be wise for you to put your affairs in final order before you meet him in combat. You challenge the greatest sword in all the holodeck.
RIKER: You think this is funny?
TROI: You are very tall. It might be threatening to some people.
RIKER: Mister Barclay will find out what it means to be threatened. Computer, discontinue image of Riker. HOLO-
PICARD: Sir, you have no sense of fair play.
LAFORGE: Just tell us where to find Barclay.
RIKER: You want us to search through all this to find him?
TROI: It could provide us with valuable information about what's troubling him. You know, there's nothing wrong with a healthy fantasy life, as long as you don't let it take over.
RIKER: You call this healthy?
TROI: You're taking it so seriously. It's not without its element of humor. HOLO-
TROI: I am the goddess of Empathy. Cast off your inhibitions and embrace love, truth, joy.
LAFORGE: Oh, my God. HOLO-
TROI: Diskard your facades and reveal your true being to me.
TROI: Computer, discontinue.
RIKER: Computer, belay that order! We want to get more insight into what's been troubling the poor man, remember? Quite a healthy fantasy life, wouldn't you say?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
WORF: Sir, our velocity increased to warp seven point two five.
DATA: Compensating, sir.
WORF: Confirmed. Velocity now warp seven.
PICARD: Maintain that. What the hell happened?
DATA: The matter-antimatter injectors locked for a split second. I am not certain why, sir. They appear to be working properly now.
PICARD: Picard to La Forge.
LAFORGE: Go ahead, Captain.
PICARD: Commander, any explanation for this injector problem?

[Holodeck - Glade]
LAFORGE: Well, I'm not in Engineering, sir. I'm in holodeck two.
PICARD: Another malfunction?
LAFORGE: Not exactly, but I'll return to Engineering immediately, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Yes, I should say you should, Commander. Your holodeck activities can wait until later. And Commander.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir?
PICARD: It would be wise to consult Lieutenant Barclay

[Holodeck - Glade]
PICARD: On this latest incident.
LAFORGE: I'd like to very much, Captain. La Forge out. We need to find Barclay now. HOLO-
TROI: Cast aside your masks and let me slip into your minds.
TROI: Muzzle it.
CRUSHER: Shh!

[Corridor]
TROI: We have a lot to talk about, Mister Barclay.
LAFORGE: Commander, Barclay and I had better get to Engineering.
RIKER: Dismissed.
BARCLAY: I just couldn't keep my eyes open. I'd worked twelve hours on the power systems and then, then the transporter went down.
LAFORGE: Reg, you had a chance to get some help from the real Counselor Troi but instead you went back in there.
BARCLAY: I know. I didn't want to. I just couldn't help myself.
LAFORGE: You're going to be able to write the book on holodiction. Look, I know how easy it is to get caught up in it. I fell in love in there once.
BARCLAY: Really?
LAFORGE: But I knew when it was time to turn it off and say goodbye. It wasn't easy, but I did it.
BARCLAY: You know, the people I create in there are more real to me than anyone I meet out here, except maybe you, Commander.
LAFORGE: I need you out here, Reg. Now more than ever.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: The injectors aren't responding to the diagnostic commands.
BARCLAY: I think we should drop out of warp.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go ahead, Commander.
LAFORGE: Recommend we go to impulse power, Captain.
PICARD: Take us out of warp.
DATA: Controls are not responding, sir.

[Engineering]
BARCLAY: It's the injectors.
LAFORGE: Override.
BARCLAY: It's not a computer problem. The mechanism is physically jammed. I can't clear it.

[Bridge]
DATA: Speed increasing, sir. Warp seven point six, seven point six five. Warp seven point seven.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We can't shut it down, Captain. Antimatter flow is increasing. She's accelerating out of control.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: There's nothing I can do.
WORF: Approaching warp nine sir.
PICARD: Red alert.
RIKER: Estimated time to structural failure.
DATA: At this rate of acceleration, fifteen minutes forty seconds, sir.
RIKER: Did you copy that, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Aye, Commander.
RIKER: Recommendations.

[Bridge]
WORF: Exceeding warp nine point four.
PICARD: Begin evacuation of secondary hull. Prepare for emergency saucer separation.
WORF: Standing by to release docking clamps.
RIKER: Reroute systems to primary hull power sources.
DATA: The plasma flow to the nacelles is uneven due to injector lock. An emergency saucer separation could rupture the warp field.
DATA: Twelve minutes to structural failure, sir.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: And have been spreading it around the ship.
RIKER: Working theories are fine, Geordi.

[Corridor]
RIKER: But we need a working solution in about five minutes.
LAFORGE: Understood, Commander. We're on our way to cargo bay five for confirmation.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Recommend we flood the injector pathway conduit with gaseous cryonetrium. That ought to neutralize it.
PICARD: The question is, will the injectors come back online?
LAFORGE: They sustained considerable damage, Captain. I can't guarantee that we'll be able to regain control.
RIKER: We don't have much choice, do we?
LAFORGE: No, sir.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Mister Barclay and I thank you, sir.
RIKER: Acknowledged.
LAFORGE: The ship has been seriously contaminated with invidium, sir. Recommend we set course for Starbase one two one for a complete systems and bio-decontamination.
PICARD: Understood. Picard out.
LAFORGE: Glad you were with us out here in the real world today, Mister Barclay.

[Bridge]
BARCLAY: It has been most difficult to reach this decision to leave you, but after thinking about it and discussing it at length with Counselor Troi, I think it's for the best. I just wanted to thank you all for your support.
LAFORGE: You'll always be welcome here, Reg.
BARCLAY: I know. That's why it's so difficult to leave.
PICARD: It was a pleasure to serve with you, Mister Barclay.
TROI: Good luck, Reg.
BARCLAY: It's been fun. Computer, end program.
BARCLAY: Erase all programs filed under Reginald Barclay. Except program nine.

[Jovis Cargo bay]
DATA: Data to Enterprise.
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Data.
DATA: This will be the last trip, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: The remaining cases of hytritium are now being loaded.
PICARD: Acknowledged. Mister Worf, advise Beta Agni Two that our departure is imminent.
WORF: Aye, Captain.
RIKER: At warp six, we should be there in just over sixteen hours.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Shuttle twelve containment field reads nominal. Now leaving the Jovis.
PICARD: On viewer.
LAFORGE: Containment field stable. Gravitational fluctuations within acceptable parameters. Flight pattern
WORF: Data.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. As the result of a yet unexplained shuttle explosion, Lieutenant Commander Data has been lost.

[Data's quarters]
WESLEY: I can't believe he's gone.
LAFORGE: I always thought he'd outlive us, by centuries.
WESLEY: He'd been working on this for months. He never felt it was quite finished.
LAFORGE: You know what a critic Data was, especially about his own work.
WESLEY: That was a gift from the Captain.
LAFORGE: And he should have it back.
WESLEY: Those should go to Commander Riker.
LAFORGE: Data always fell for Riker's bluffs.
WESLEY: These are some of Starfleet's highest honors.
LAFORGE: Not bad for a walking pile of circuitry and memory cells.
LAFORGE: You know, I keep going over and over the accident in my mind, trying to figure out what went wrong. I can see Data in the shuttle, almost like I'm sitting there next to him going through the departure sequence. What the hell happened? Why didn't I see it coming? What am I missing?

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: The reason I can't find anything is that there's nothing there to find. I've run this analysis dozens of times over and there's just no indication of any malfunction.
RIKER: No possible explanation at all?
LAFORGE: Yeah, there's one, but I don't believe it. Pilot error.
PICARD: I know it's hard to accept, but even the best
LAFORGE: Captain, it's not only hard to accept, with Data it's impossible. I mean, I can't even begin to calculate the odds. If Data were here, we could ask him.
PICARD: What are you suggesting, Lieutenant?
LAFORGE: I don't know, sir. It just doesn't make sense, and I like things to make sense, that's all.
RIKER: Geordi, maybe if you get a little rest and came at this thing fresh.
LAFORGE: A little rest isn't going to change the computer analysis, Commander.
PICARD: I'm sure you have done a complete investigation, and if you wish to continue it, of course you have my support. But we shall be reaching the Beta Agni system shortly, and I expect you to be rested.
LAFORGE: I understand, sir.
PICARD: Dismissed. Geordi, I understand how much we want, even need, to explain an accident like this. Sometimes there just aren't any explanations.
RIKER: For an android with no feelings, he sure managed to evoke them in others.
PICARD: We must select an officer to replace Data at Ops. Recommendations?
RIKER: Worf would be my first choice, sir.
PICARD: Mine as well. Make it so.
PICARD: He was a man, taken for all in all. I shall not look upon his like again.

[Geordi's quarters]
DATA: Proceeding with departure. Enterprise shuttlebay two, prepare for docking. Level one precautions remain in effect.
LAFORGE: I did miss something.

[Corridor]
TROI: See you later. Your first watch at Ops?
WORF: I have served at the position before.
TROI: I've been concerned about you.
WORF: About me? Why?
TROI: Because I know how I'd feel if I was asked to replace Data at his station.

[Turbolift]
WORF: Bridge. Promotion due to the death of a crewmate is commonplace on Klingon ships.
TROI: I know, but this isn't a Klingon ship and Data was your friend. And it's the second time you've replaced a crewmate who's died.
WORF: I honor Data's memory, as I did Lieutenant Yar's, by attempting to perform their duties as well as they did.
TROI: In true Klingon fashion.
WORF: I appreciate your concern.

[La Forge's office]
LAFORGE: Computer, now replay shuttle audio transmission time index zero four two three. This is Data's second trip.
DATA: Proceeding with departure. Enterprise shuttlebay two, prepare for docking. Level one precautions remain in effect. Shuttle has cleared the Jovis cargo bay.
WESLEY: Sounds just like the first trip.
LAFORGE: Exactly the same. That's protocol. And that's Data. Following protocol to the letter. Okay, computer, now replay shuttle audio transmission, time index zero four three nine. Third and final trip.
DATA: Loading is complete. I am proceeding with departure. Enterprise shuttlebay two, prepare for docking. Level one precautions remain in effect.
LAFORGE: That's it. That's the last communication.
WESLEY: He didn't report the shuttle clearing the cargo bay of the Jovis.
LAFORGE: Of course, there really wasn't any reason for him to make voice contact. He knew we'd be monitoring his position. Any other pilot might not bother, but Data? not following standard procedures?
WESLEY: What do you think it means?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, Wes. I suppose he could've been too busy. Maybe he saw something was wrong.
WESLEY: Without communicating it? That doesn't sound like Data either.
LAFORGE: Which means maybe something was wrong with him. But there's no other indication of that. Nothing he said or did during the entire mission. None. I sure wish I could talk to the last people who saw him alive.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Now entering the Beta Agni system, sir.
RIKER: Take us to half impulse, Mister Crusher.
LAFORGE: La Forge to bridge.
PICARD: Go ahead, Commander.
LAFORGE: Captain.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: A class two probe has been loaded with the hytritium compound and is ready to launch.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Now approaching Beta Agni Two, sir.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, put us into close orbit. Mister Data, scan. My apologies, Mister Worf. Scan the colony's subsurface water.
WORF: Scanning. Tricyanate contamination confirmed. Levels approaching forty two parts per million.
RIKER: Area affected?
WORF: Thirty square kilometers.
PICARD: Any indication of the source?
WORF: Highest concentration eight kilometers west of the colony.
RIKER: Adjust target coordinates.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: La Forge to bridge.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: According to these figures, the eighty one kilos

[Beta Agni Two]
CRUSHER: The contamination's been neutralized. The water's clean.
WORF: Curious. The process of neutralization should have taken several hours. Naturally occurring tricyanate does not respond this quickly.
RIKER: Are you saying it's not naturally occurring?
WORF: There are no natural trace elements present in these tricyanate crystals.
RIKER: If it's artificial, then we're talking about sabotage.
CRUSHER: With tricyanate? That's hard to believe. It's slow to assimilate, difficult to replicate, and hard to transport. There are a lot easier ways to poison a water supply. More effective ways too.
RIKER: Can you think of any reason a saboteur would choose tricyanate?
CRUSHER: It might pass for a natural disaster. And since there's only one way to treat it, with hytritium, maybe somebody figured we couldn't locate it. It is hard to find.
RIKER: Then it really was lucky, wasn't it, that we were able to find hytritium when we did. And just enough hytritium for this crisis?

[Bridge]
WESLEY: The Jovis has a maximum speed of warp three. He's had twenty three hours so we can define a perimeter of point one oh two light years as his possible distance.
RIKER: Fajo doesn't know that we're onto him, so he probably isn't taxing his engines at top speed.
WESLEY: He could have made it to the Nel Bato system, or maybe even the Giles Belt.
PICARD: He's a trader. He doesn't attract customers by being hard to find.
RIKER: We could put out a coded level two query to all Federation outposts within the perimeter.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, affirmative response from station Lya Four.
RIKER: Fajo spent more than half a day in orbit. Departed just over seven hours ago.
PICARD: Mister Crusher, new coordinates. Lay in a course for Lya Four.
WESLEY: Coordinates already laid in, sir.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I'm reading a weapon in transit with Commander Data. It seems to have discharged, sir.
RIKER: Discharged?
O'BRIEN: I'm deactivating it.
RIKER: Welcome back, Mister Data. Are you all right?
DATA: Yes, Commander. Please arrange to take Kivas Fajo into custody on charges of murder, kidnapping, theft.
RIKER: The arrangements have already been made.
DATA: A Varon-T disruptor. It belongs to Fajo.
RIKER: Mister O'Brien says the weapon was in a state of discharge.
DATA: Perhaps something occurred during transport, Commander.

[Corridor]
RIKER: I remember studying his career in school. The treaty of Alpha Cygnus Nine, the Coridan admission to the Federation, the Klingon Alliance.
PICARD: I met him once, many years ago, very briefly at his son's wedding. I can tell you that was quite a moment for a young lieutenant, standing in the presence of such history. I remember he spoke to me and I just stood there grinning like an idiot.
RIKER: You? Tongue-tied?
PICARD: Indeed. How do you make small talk with someone who shaped the Federation?
RIKER: Is it true that he'll be retiring after this mission?
PICARD: Unofficially, that's what I hear. What a crowning achievement for his career. The benefits of relations with the Legarans are incalculable.

[Bridge]
RIKER: The way Mendrossen described him, I expected to see a frail old man.
PICARD: I hope I'm that frail when I'm two hundred and two years old. But his aides did seem to be a little overprotective, didn't they?
RIKER: From what I could see, the Ambassador doesn't need to be protected from anything.
PICARD: Well, we'll respect Mister Mendrossen's request and allow Ambassador Sarek his privacy. I suppose they were foolish and vain, my expectations of this voyage. Sharing his thoughts, memories, his unique understanding of the history he's made.
TROI: Does this mean you're going to cancel the concert this evening?
PICARD: No, the concert will ahead as scheduled. But it's a pity that the guest of honor will be absent.
RIKER: For all we know, the Ambassador might enjoy an evening's entertainment
TROI: Why not ask his wife if she'd like to attend?
PICARD: That's an excellent idea, Counselor. You have the Bridge, Number One.

[Conference room]
WESLEY: The temperature in the tank is now one hundred fifty degrees Celsius.
LAFORGE: Okay, lock it off.
WESLEY: Is that it? Can I get out of here now?
LAFORGE: What's your hurry? You don't really think something's going to happen with Suzanne Dumont, do you?
WESLEY: At least I'm not spending the night with a good book like some people.
LAFORGE: What's that supposed to mean?
WESLEY: Just what it sounds like.
LAFORGE: Let me tell you something. You'd get more action out of a good book than you'll ever see on this date, I'll guarantee it. She's not going to waste her time on someone like you.
WESLEY: Someone like me?
LAFORGE: She's way out of your league.
WESLEY: Since when did you become an expert on women?
LAFORGE: Compared to you, every male on this ship is an expert on women.
WESLEY: Well at least I don't have to find my women on the holodeck!
LAFORGE: What did you say?
WESLEY: You heard me!
LAFORGE: Yeah, I heard you. Just what do you think is going to stop
RIKER: Something wrong? I asked a question.
LAFORGE: No, sir. Nothing wrong here.
WESLEY: May I be excused, Commander?
RIKER: Anything you'd like to talk about, Geordi?
LAFORGE: No, sir.

[Crusher's office]
WESLEY: Hi Mom. I got a message you wanted to see me?
CRUSHER: I thought you were going to be at the concert last night.
WESLEY: I said I may be going. Suzanne wanted to go to the arboretum.
CRUSHER: Captain Picard asked me where you were. I don't like making excuses for you.
WESLEY: Excuses? Come on, Mom. It wasn't an official function.
CRUSHER: Listen, young man. You have responsibilities and I want you to live up to them.
WESLEY: Don't you think you're overreacting a little?
CRUSHER: Don't talk back to me!
WESLEY: Okay, I won't.
CRUSHER: Where do you think you're going?
WESLEY: Away from you.

[Troi's office]
CRUSHER: And then I just slapped him. Really hard. I slapped Wesley.
TROI: Do you know why you did it?
CRUSHER: I've never hit my son in his life.
TROI: Beverly, this is important. What were you thinking when you hit Wes?
CRUSHER: I wasn't thinking about anything. I was just angry.
TROI: And Wesley didn't provoke you in any way? It wasn't anything he said, or anything he did?
CRUSHER: No, that's just it. It was a sudden burst of anger. I still can't believe I did it.
TROI: I don't know why you did it either, but I can tell you that I've heard the same kind of story from ten different people over the last two days.

[Corridor]
RIKER: I don't need to tell you that insubordination is a serious charge to level against any officer.
WORF: I am aware of that, Commander. However, Ensign D'Amato directly challenged my authority.
RIKER: Is it my imagination, or have tempers become a little frayed on this ship lately?
WORF: I hadn't noticed.

[Ten Forward]
WORF: I see what you mean.
WORF: Security team to Ten Forward.
RIKER: Geordi, what the hell is going on here?
LAFORGE: I wish I knew.
RIKER: All right, that's enough!
LAFORGE: The next thing I know somebody's left hook is on its way to my chin.
TROI: Captain, this is not an isolated incident. There have been reports of random violence all over the ship.
PICARD: Are you suggesting this is somehow contagious?
CRUSHER: There's no indication of any bacteria or virus. I've run every test I know. I've checked the water, food replicators, airborne samples.
PICARD: This is a hell of a time. Whatever it is, I don't want it to affect the Ambassador. I want his quarters isolated from the rest of the crew until we've identified the cause.
TROI: It's not that simple, Captain.
CRUSHER: We have determined that the outbreak of violence started at virtually the same time Sarek and his party beamed onto the ship.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: We do have a working theory. We believe that it's possible Ambassador Sarek himself is responsible for these incidents.
PICARD: Sarek?
TROI: I felt something during the concert. Vague and undefined, but very disturbing
PICARD: He cried. I saw that. I couldn't believe it. A Vulcan moved to tears by music? It's
TROI: Well, Vulcans have the same basic emotions we do. They've just learned to repress them. What I sensed during the concert was that he'd lost control.
PICARD: What would cause such a loss of control?
CRUSHER: There's a very rare condition that sometimes affects Vulcans over the age of two hundred. Bendii Syndrome. Its early symptoms include sudden bursts of emotion, mostly irrational anger. Eventually, all emotional control is lost.
PICARD: I can imagine nothing that would be more offensive to a Vulcan. Their emotional detachment is the very core of their being. How would this affect others on board the ship?
TROI: Vulcans possess telepathic ability. Sarek may unintentionally be projecting intense emotions onto other people, at random.
PICARD: And when the Legarans beam on board?
CRUSHER: They could very well be affected too.
PICARD: Is there a treatment?
CRUSHER: Can't someone else take his place?
PICARD: Sarek has built a personal relationship with them. They will accept no one else. How can we confirm your diagnosis?
CRUSHER: We can grow a culture from the tissue of the metathalamus, but the results will take several days.
PICARD: I have twelve hours.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sakkath has been able, until recently, to use his telepathic skills to reinforce Sarek's emotional control, thus protecting others from the effects of his deterioration.
RIKER: He hasn't been doing a very good job.
DATA: The strain of this mission on Sarek has made it impossible.
PICARD: It's ironic, isn't it? All this magnificent technology and we find ourselves still susceptible to the ravages of old age. The loss of dignity, the slow betrayal of our bodies by forces we cannot master. Do you still want to be one of us, Data?
DATA: Sir, it is conceivable, even for me, that time will eventually lead to irreparable circuit failure. But there is one thing I do not understand. Sarek is a logical, intelligent being. The effects of Bendii Syndrome are apparent. Why would such a man choose to ignore them?
PICARD: Logic fails us sometimes, Data. I think this is one of those times. I can only guess that he does not see, or he does not wish to see, the truth. And he is being insulated against that truth by those who love him most.
RIKER: Someone has to confront him.
PICARD: Not a task that I'm looking forward to.
RIKER: I don't understand this. Everyone is protecting Sarek. His wife, Mendrossen, even you.
PICARD: What would you have me do? March down there and destroy the man?
RIKER: The mission with the Legarans cannot be carried out with Sarek in this condition!
PICARD: I know that!
RIKER: Then tell him that there is no way
PICARD: Don't you tell me what to do!
DATA: Captain. Commander.
PICARD: Of course. You're right, Number One. It's a task that I will attend to.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: No! It is wrong. It is wrong! A lifetime of diskipline washed away, and in its place bedlam. Bedlam! I am so old. There is nothing left but dry bones and dead friends. Tired, oh so tired.
CRUSHER: It will pass, all of it. Just another hour or so. You're doing fine. Just hold on.
PICARD: No! This weakness disgusts me! I hate it! Where is my logic? I am betrayed by desires. I want to feel. I want to feel everything. But I am a Vulcan. I must feel nothing. Give me back my control.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc!
PICARD: Perrin. Amanda. I wanted to give you so much more. I wanted to show you such tenderness. But that is not our way. Spock, Amanda, did you know? Perrin, can you know how much I love you? I do love you!
PICARD: Beverly.
CRUSHER: I'm here, Jean-Luc. I'm not going anywhere.
PICARD: It's quite difficult. The anguish of the man, the despair pouring out of him, all those feelings, the regrets. I can't stop them.
PICARD: I can't stop them. I can't. I can't.
CRUSHER: Don't even try. First Officer's log, Stardate 43920.7. Ambassador Sarek has successfully concluded the negotiations with the Legarans. The USS Merrimac has arrived and will transport the Ambassador and his party back to Vulcan.

[Ready room]
WESLEY: Adding pre-processors to the neutrino counters boosted efficiency by eleven percent. Of course, Commander La Forge and Commander Data did most of the work.
LAFORGE: Not so fast, Wesley. Pre-processing the data with an optical chip was your idea.
DATA: That is correct, sir. Although Commander La Forge and I designed the chip, Mister Crusher derived the equation governing its operation.
RIKER: The point is, you've completed the upgrade well ahead of schedule. Very impressive.
PICARD: Indeed. Fine work. We shall miss you, Mister Crusher. As you've guessed, final entrance examination scores from Starfleet Academy have arrived. Congratulations. As soon as you have completed the oral exam, you'll be formally admitted.
RIKER: We'll have you back at Betazed in plenty of time to meet up with the Academy transport ship.
WESLEY: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: That'll be all. Number One, a moment.
RIKER: Yes, Captain?
PICARD: You'll agree that this is a fairly routine mapping mission?
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Counselor Troi had the good sense to ask for shore leave. I can see I'm going to have to suggest it to you. Have a good time, Number One.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Fifteen hours from Gamma Erandi, and already the subspace static is playing hell with communications.
WESLEY: Just what you'd expect from a stellar nursery.
DATA: Wesley, congratulations on passing your Starfleet written examination. An excellent achievement.
WESLEY: Thanks, Data. Now if I can just do well on the oral exams.
LAFORGE: Not to worry, you will. And when you return, we'll be gaining the best ensign in the fleet.
DATA: There is no guarantee that Wesley will be reassigned to the Enterprise. Ninety one per cent of Starfleet graduates are not posted to Galaxy class starships on their first assignment.
WESLEY: I never thought of that. I always assumed I'd be coming back to the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: I'm sure Captain Picard will request you. That is, if he's still commanding the Enterprise when you graduate.
WESLEY: I never thought of that, either. I never thought I'd feel this way about leaving you guys and the Enterprise.
DATA: Is that not a part of the human experience? Growth and change?
WESLEY: I suppose so, but.
LAFORGE: Listen, Wesley. I felt the same way when I left my family to go to the Academy. But it was one of the best times of my life. You're going to meet new friends and have adventures that you can't even imagine yet.
WESLEY: I hope you're right, Geordi.

[Bridge]
DATA: Initial scans of ionization patterns complete, sir. Now correlating sensor readings.
PICARD: It's almost incomprehensible, the amount of energy being expended.
DATA: Actually, it is five point three four times ten to the forty first watts, sir. Well within the norm for this type of phenomena.
PICARD: Yes, yes, yes. Perhaps, Data, but that takes away none of the wonder.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Now we now have a reasonable hypothesis as to whom.
WORF: The difficult question is where.
LAFORGE: The Ferengi ship is almost as fast as the Enterprise. She could be anywhere by now.
PICARD: Commander Riker will assume that we'll be searching for them. He'll find some way to send us a message. Mister Worf, I want continual monitoring of Ferengi subspace frequencies. Mister La Forge, can you extend our sensor range?
LAFORGE: If I narrow the band and tie in long range sensors to the subspace scanners, I can boost the gain.
PICARD: Make it so.
DATA: Do you wish to leave orbit, sir?
PICARD: Not until we have someplace to go.

[Ferengi brig]
RIKER: I've done everything I know how. It's no use. Without Tog's security code, I can't get near their communication system.
TROI: We're running out of time. Farek's about to begin the neural scan on Mother.
RIKER: Maybe I'm going about this in the wrong way. If I pick a minor subsystem, something non-essential. Like this. Warp field phase adjustment. All this does is suppress the subspace interference generated by the warp engines.
TROI: Meaning what?
RIKER: Meaning if I set up a simple oscillation, I can send out a signal. The trick is to create a message that the Enterprise will understand but that the Ferengi will think is just normal subspace static. What's wrong?
TROI: Mother. Will, we have to help her.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Thanks for your help, Wes, but you'd better get aboard the Bradbury. They were ready to break orbit an hour ago.
WESLEY: Soon as I'm sure this works.
LAFORGE: Initiating scans now, Captain.
PICARD: Can you locate the Krayton?
DATA: Ferengi transmissions are routinely scrambled and encoded, sir. Without breaking the code, we will be unable to identify any specific Ferengi vessel.
LAFORGE: Ferengi codes are damn near impossible to break.
PICARD: Gentlemen, I have the utmost confidence in your ability to perform the impossible.
WORF: Captain, the Bradbury is hailing us. They can no longer delay their departure.
PICARD: Mister Crusher. Now. No lengthy farewells. Good luck.
WESLEY: Thank you, sir.
DATA: The repetitive nature of the subcarrier pattern would imply a modified

[Turbolift]
WESLEY: Deck six.

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER: Wesley?
CRUSHER: Take care.
WESLEY: You too, Mom.
CRUSHER: Something the matter?
WESLEY: We've been scanning Ferengi transmissions, trying to find the Krayton. One of the signals was, I don't know, familiar somehow.
CRUSHER: Something in the message?
WESLEY: No, the message was scrambled. It was the static!
CRUSHER: Where are you going?

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain. The Bradbury has informed us they can wait no longer for Mister Crusher to come aboard.
PICARD: Wesley.
WESLEY: Captain, I think there's a pattern to the subspace interference I heard on one of the Ferengi messages.
PICARD: Wesley, unless you leave immediately, you're going to miss the Bradbury.
WESLEY: The interference itself could be a message. If I could just hear a replay of the subspace scans.
PICARD: Signal the Bradbury they may leave. Play back the Ferengi transmissions.
WESLEY: Wait. Repeat that one. Put it on a continuous replay. Hear that popping noise? Data, can you filter out everything but that sound?
LAFORGE: That's Cochrane distortion. A fluctuation in the phase of the subspace field. All warp engines generate that kind of interference.
WESLEY: But listen to the pattern. It's the Algolian ceremonial rhythm that the musician played at the reception.
DATA: Mister Crusher is correct, sir. There is a temporal correlation.
PICARD: Then it is a signal from Commander Riker. Ingenious. He selected a signal we'd recognize but one the Ferengi would dismiss as static.
WORF: Signal source located, Captain.
PICARD: Plot an intercept course.
WESLEY: Course plotted and laid in, sir.
PICARD: Well done, Mister Crusher. Warp eight.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Engage.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: What's this all about, Commander?
RIKER: Sensors have discovered a small one-man spaceship crashed on the planet.
CRUSHER: We're picked up life-signs, humanoid, very faint and fading.

[Planet surface]
DATA: Radiation levels within acceptable limits.
LAFORGE: We can beam him out from under there, get him right up to Sickbay.
CRUSHER: He's not stable enough for transport. There's damage to his brain stem, autonomic functions are failing. His heart needs active neurofeedback. It can't regulate itself. I need a volunteer.
LAFORGE: Right here.
CRUSHER: I'm going to hook your nervous systems to the tricorder. Your brain will regulate both systems. That should stabilize him long enough to get him up to the ship.
CRUSHER: Take deep, regular breaths. If anything goes wrong I'll break the connection.
LAFORGE: Okay.
CRUSHER: Geordi!
LAFORGE: I'm fine. No problem.
CRUSHER: Transporter room, three to beam directly to Sickbay.

[Bridge]
RIKER: From the size and shape of the wreckage, it appeared to be some kind of escape pod. Their control system was badly damaged, which is probably what caused the crash.
PICARD: An escape pod? Then he couldn't have traveled very far. Mister Data, are there any other signs of ships in this area?
DATA: I am picking up a scattering of debris in extended orbit around the planet. It reads as refined metals and other synthetic compounds.
PICARD: The remains of a larger vessel. He must have left in the pod before the ship was destroyed.
WORF: Sensors show trace elements in the debris that would indicate phaser fire was recently exchanged.
PICARD: Were you able to salvage anything else from the escape pod?
RIKER: This is all that was left from their computer system.
PICARD: Mister Data, can you access it?
DATA: It will take time, sir. Downloading this into our system will require fabrication of a matrix translator to emulate the alien's computer system.
PICARD: Keep me apprised of your progress.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Crushers' quarters]
CRUSHER: I've run every test and scan on him that I can think of, and yet there's no physiological evidence to indicate that he would possess such powers. But then, there's so much about John that's a mystery.
WESLEY: You know, I really like him.
CRUSHER: He does have a certain charm doesn't he? The entire medical staff has commented on it.
WESLEY: You seem a little taken with him yourself.
CRUSHER: He has a strength and serenity that I find very attractive. And yet he's vulnerable. I guess I find him intriguing.
WESLEY: Seems like there's a little more to it than that.
CRUSHER: Is this your way of asking me if I'm getting romantically involved with him?
WESLEY: You said it, I didn't.
CRUSHER: My feelings toward him aren't romantic exactly. I mean, I know that the doctor-patient relationship can sometimes create a false sense of intimacy, but this is different. There's an almost spiritual connection. I guess I'm not making any sense, am I?
WESLEY: I think I understand.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, I am reading a vessel on long range scanners. It is coming from sector nine five six nine.
PICARD: What configuration?
WORF: Impossible to identify at this distance. However, it is on an intercept course.
DATA: Captain, the ship is traveling at warp nine point seven two.
RIKER: Warp nine point seven two?
PICARD: Time to intercept?
DATA: At present course and speed, ten hours fifty three minutes.
PICARD: Try and hail them, Mister Worf.
WORF: No response, Captain.
PICARD: Keep monitoring their approach. Repeat the hail every half an hour.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Whoever they are, they're in a big hurry to get here.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Security.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Anything from the surface?
WORF: No sir. There have been no communications from the colony for over twelve hours.
RIKER: Sensors picking up any signs of life?
WORF: None.
O'BRIEN: The surface environment is safe for transport, Commander.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Mister O'Brien

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Verify these are accurate coordinates for New Providence colony.
O'BRIEN: Coordinates verified, sir.

[Planet surface]
O'BRIEN: You're at the center of town.
PICARD: Captain's log, Stardate 43992.6. Admiral Hanson and Lieutenant Commander Shelby of Starfleet Tactical have arrived to review the disappearance of New Providence colony. No sign remains of the nine hundred inhabitants.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Mister Data and our guest appear to be tardy.
O'BRIEN: Sir, Commander Shelby and Data beamed down to the planet surface an hour ago.
RIKER: On whose authority?
O'BRIEN: On hers, sir.

[Ready room]
RIKER: I've also ordered a standing Yellow Alert. All Federation and allied outposts have been warned. Ops will continue to monitor long range sensors. I've assigned Data, La Forge and Mister Crusher to work with Commander Shelby.
PICARD: Good. You've covered all the bases. What's your impression of Shelby?
RIKER: She knows her stuff.
PICARD: She has your full confidence?
RIKER: Well, I think she needs supervision. She takes the initiative a little too easily. Sometimes with risks.
PICARD: Sounds a little like a young lieutenant commander I once recruited as a first officer.
RIKER: Perhaps.
PICARD: Will, what the hell are you still doing here?
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: You've been offered the Melbourne.
RIKER: I've decided not to pursue that commission at this time.
PICARD: She's a fine ship, Will.
RIKER: Yes, but she's not the Enterprise. With all due respect, sir, you need me. Particularly now.
PICARD: Indeed? Starfleet needs good captains, particularly now. Reconsider your decision.
RIKER: Are you telling me to leave, Captain?
PICARD: I'm asking you to look at your career objectively. Will, you're ready to work without a net. You're ready to take command. And, you know, the Enterprise will go along just fine without you.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: What am I still doing here? Deanna, I pushed myself hard to get this far. I sacrificed a lot. I always said I wanted my own command, and yet something's holding me back. Is it wrong for me to want to stay?
TROI: What do you think?
RIKER: Maybe I'm just afraid of the big chair.
TROI: I don't think so.
RIKER: The Captain says Shelby reminds him of the way I used to be. And he's right. She comes in here full of drive and ambition. Impatient, taking risks. I look at her and I wonder whatever happened to those things in me? I liked those things about me. I've lost something.
TROI: You mean you're older, more experienced. A little more seasoned.
RIKER: Seasoned. That's a horrible thing to say to a man.
TROI: I don't think you've lost a thing, and I think you've gained more than you realize. You're much more comfortable with yourself than you used to be.
RIKER: Maybe that's the problem. I'm too comfortable here.
TROI: I'm not sure I know what that means. You're happy here. Happier than I've ever known you to be. So, it comes down to a simple question. What do you want, Will Riker?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: The shields are being probed. I'm modulating nutation.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Shield modulation has failed. They've locked on.

[Bridge]
WORF: Shields are being drained. Ninety percent. Eighty.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Trying to recalibrate nutation. Damn.

[Bridge]
WORF: Shields have failed.
PICARD: Fire all weapons.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Their subspace field is intact. New phaser frequencies had no impact.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Reverse engines.
LAFORGE: Full reverse.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We're not moving.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Come in, Number One. Commander Shelby was just telling me of your concerns about her plan.
RIKER: I'm sorry if she troubled you, sir. I have already informed her
PICARD: Yes, I entirely agree with you, Number One. It's not the time. But the time may come when we will be required to take greater risks. I want you to consider her plan as a fall back position. Make the necessary preparations.
RIKER: Very good, sir.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: Trouble sleeping?
PICARD: Something of a tradition, Guinan. The Captain touring the ship before a battle.
GUINAN: Before a hopeless battle, if I remember the tradition correctly.
PICARD: Not necessarily. Nelson toured the HMS Victory before Trafalgar.
GUINAN: Yes, but Nelson never returned from Trafalgar, did he?
PICARD: No, but the battle was won.
GUINAN: Do you expect this battle to be won?
PICARD: We may yet prevail. That's a conceit, but it's a healthy one. I wonder if the Emperor Honorious, watching the Visigoths coming over the seventh hill, truly realized that the Roman Empire was about to fall. This is just another page in history, isn't it? Will this be the end of our civilization? Turn the page.
GUINAN: This isn't the end.
PICARD: You say that with remarkable assuredness.
GUINAN: With experience. When the Borg destroyed my world, my people scattered throughout the universe. We survived. As will humanity survive. As long as there's a handful of you to keep the spirit alive, you will prevail. Even if it takes a millennium.
WORF: Captain Picard, report to the Bridge.
PICARD: I'm on my way, Lieutenant.

[Bridge]
RIKER: They're some kind of magnetometric guided charges.
PICARD: Status of shields?
WORF: Back to forty eight percent, Captain.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I may have to take us out of the nebula. I want all the power you can give me.
LAFORGE: Engines are ready, Captain.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Recommend we adjust shield harmonics to favor the upper EM band when you proceed.
PICARD: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
WORF: Direct hit, deck nine.
RIKER: Damage report?
WORF: Structural latching system integrity breached.
PICARD: Prepare to take us out of here, Number One.
RIKER: Fire up the engines. Half impulse until we clear the nebula, then punch it to warp nine.
PICARD: Ready phasers. Load forward torpedo bays. Engage.
WORF: Borg tractor beam is attempting to lock on.
PICARD: Fire at will. Continue rotating shield frequency.
WORF: Shields failing. Tractor beam has locked on.
RIKER: It's no use. They've already adapted to the new frequencies.
WORF: The Borg ship is disengaging. Leaving at warp speed.
RIKER: Maintain pursuit.
WORF: Borg vessel has reached warp nine. Nine point four, nine point six.
RIKER: Stay with them. Riker to O'Brien. Can you get a fix on the Captain?
O'BRIEN: Negative, sir. There's some kind of interference. I can't lock in on his signal.
RIKER: Senior officers, report to the Bridge.
WORF: Sir, the coordinates they have set, they're on a direct course to sector zero zero one. The Terran system.
RIKER: Earth.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Sir, they've done it. The Borg ship is dropping out of warp.
RIKER: Go to impulse.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: Diverting warp energy to main deflector.
RIKER: Move us to within forty thousand kilometers. Match velocity. Commence arming sequence. Increase deflector modulation to upper frequency band.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Mister Crusher suggests we might design a chip that would automatically retune the phasers to a random setting after each discharge. Engineering.
WORF: That would be a great advantage.
RIKER: We should also see if there's some way that we can neutralize their forcefields. We've got to let them know that we can adapt too, Mister Worf. We're no longer just fighting the Borg, we're fighting the life experience they've stolen from Captain Picard. Now how the hell do we defeat an enemy that knows us better than we know ourselves?
WORF: The Borg have neither honor nor courage. That is our greatest advantage.
RIKER: I hope it's enough.

[Ready room]
RIKER: What would you do?
RIKER: Come.
GUINAN: May I speak to you, Captain?
RIKER: Actually, Guinan, I
GUINAN: You know, Picard and I used to talk every now and again, when one of us needed to. I guess I'm just used to having the Captain's ear.
RIKER: What's on your mind?
GUINAN: I've heard a lot of people talking down in Ten Forward. They expect to be dead in the next day or so. They trust you. They like you. But they don't believe anyone can save them.
RIKER: I'm not sure anyone can.
GUINAN: When a man is convinced he's going to die tomorrow, he'll probably find a way to make it happen. The only one who can turn is around is you.
RIKER: I'll do the best I can.
GUINAN: You're going have to do something you don't want to do. You have to let go of Picard.
RIKER: Maybe you haven't heard. I tried to kill him yesterday.
GUINAN: You tried to kill whatever that is on the Borg ship. Not Picard. Picard is still here with us in this room. If he had died, it would be easier. But he didn't They took him from us a piece at a time. Did he ever tell you why we're so close?
RIKER: No.
GUINAN: Well, then let me just our relationship is beyond friendship, beyond family. And I will let him go. And you must do the same. There can only be one Captain.
RIKER: It's not that simple. This was his crew. He wrote the book on this ship.
GUINAN: And the Borg know everything he knows. It's time to throw that book away. You must let him go, Riker. It's the only way to beat him. The only way to save him. And that is now you chair. Captain.
WESLEY: We're approaching the Wolf system, Captain.
RIKER: On my way.

[Borg ship]
RIKER: Locutus of Borg, this is Captain William T. Riker of the USS Enterprise.
PICARD: You may speak.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: The Borg have adapted their electromagnetic field to prevent main transporter functions, sir.
RIKER: As expected. Mister Data, Mister Worf, proceed as we discussed.
DATA: Aye, Captain.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Docking latches clear, separation complete.

[Battle bridge]
WESLEY: Saucer velocity one hundred meters per second and increasing, sir.
RIKER: Open fire, all weapons.

[Battle bridge]
WESLEY: Borg tractor beam attempting to lock on, sir.
RIKER: Evasive maneuvers, pattern Riker Alpha.
WESLEY: Riker Alpha confirmed. They're ignoring the saucer section completely.
RIKER: Just as you should, Captain. Ensign, evasive pattern, Riker Beta.
WESLEY: Riker Beta confirmed.
RIKER: Proceed to second phase, Commander Shelby.

[Shuttlecraft]
DATA: Shuttle launch sequence confirmed. Departing Enterprise in exactly three seconds.

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: Shuttle has penetrated the Borg electromagnetic field.
RIKER: Understood.
DATA: The shuttle escape transporter should provide enough power to beam us

[Battle bridge]
DATA: Onto the Borg ship from here, sir
RIKER: Proceed.

[Borg ship]
WORF: Data!

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: Mission accomplished. We have him.
DATA: Firing shuttle thrusters.

[Battle bridge]
WESLEY: They're clear of the Borg field, sir.
RIKER: Beam them out of there, Mister O'Brien.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Locked in
O'BRIEN: Transport successful, sir.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: There is extensive infiltration of microcircuit fibers into the surrounding tissue. His DNA is being rewritten.
RIKER: Can you revive him?
CRUSHER: I'd like more time to study the structural changes in the motor pathways.
RIKER: We don't have more time, Doctor. Once he was wired into the Borg, they knew everything that he knew. I just hope it goes both ways. If we're lucky, he had access to everything we need to know about them, especially their vulnerabilities.
CRUSHER: Jean Luc? It's Beverly. can you hear me?
PICARD: Beverly. Crusher. Doctor.
CRUSHER: Yes. Don't try to move.
PICARD: I am on board the Enterprise.
RIKER: That's right.
PICARD: A futile manuever. Incorrect strategy, Number One. To risk your ship and crew to retrieve only one man. Picard would never have approved. You underestimate us if you believe this abduction is any concern. There is no need for apprehension. I intend no harm. No harm. I will continue, aboard this ship, to speak for the Borg, while they continue without further diversion to Sector zero zero one, where they will force your unconditional surrender.

[Bridge]
DATA: Using multimodal reflection sorting, I have been able to detect a complex series of subspace signals between Locutus and the Borg ship.
CRUSHER: That's how they're controlling him?
DATA: It is not just a matter of control, Doctor. The signals are interactive across a subspace domain similar to that of a Transporter beam. I would hypothesize that these frequencies form the basis of the Borg's collective consciousness.
RIKER: Can't we block them?
DATA: Possibly. But as you may recall on several occasions, we have witnessed the Borg removing key circuits from injured comrades, no doubt separating them from the group consciousness.
RIKER: The injured Borg immediately self-destructed.
DATA: That is correct, sir.
CRUSHER: Cutting the link to Locutus might be fatal to the Captain.
RIKER: We have to find a way to reach him. We must know what he knows
CRUSHER: Without these interactive signals, it would only be a matter of microsurgery. I could do it. But as long as those Borg implants are functioning, there's no way I can separate the man from the machine.
DATA: Then perhaps there is a way I can access the machine, Doctor.

[Data's lab]
RIKER: What's your status?
DATA: The initial cybernetic connection into Captain Picard's neural net pathways has been established. Mister O'Brien is ready to process the Borg signal through the transport pattern buffer.
RIKER: Make it so. With dispatch, Mister Data.
DATA: Proceeding immediately, sir. Data out.
DATA: The neural link will be established in three stages. Doctor, I suggest you closely observe Captain Picard's lifesigns, while at each stage Chief O'Brien monitors my positronic matrix activity. Counselor, hopefully, you will be able to determine whether I am reaching Captain Picard.
O'BRIEN: At what point should I shut it down if there's a problem?
DATA: I do not know. I have never done this before. Initiating first neural link.
CRUSHER: The Captain's vital signs are stable.
O'BRIEN: Positronic activity unchanged.
DATA: First neural connection is confirmed. I cannot report any significant access to the Borg consciousness.

[Bridge]
WORF: It is confirmed. The Borg have broken through the Mars defense perimeter.
WESLEY: Enterprise now approaching Terran system, sir.
RIKER: Slow to impulse. Time to intercept?
WESLEY: Twenty-three minutes, fourteen seconds, sir.

[Data's lab]
DATA: Second neural connection is confirmed. I still cannot report any significant access. Proceeding with the final link.
CRUSHER: Significant increase in premotor area and hypothalamus activity. His heartbeat is accelerating rapidly.
O'BRIEN: Sir, your submicron matrix activity is increasing exponentially.
DATA: Neural connections complete. I have access to the Borg subspace signals. Processing. Processing.
TROI: Data!
DATA: Stand by. Processing. Processing. Fascinating. The Borg group consciousness is divided into subcommands necessary to carry out all functions. Defense, communication, navigation. They are all controlled by a root command implanted into each
CRUSHER: Data, I'm picking up increased neural activity in Captain Picard, localized in the prefrontal and parietal lobes.
O'BRIEN: The Borg might be trying to terminate their link with him.
DATA: Negative. The subspace signal configuration is unchanged. What is causing the increased neural activity is unclear.
TROI: No, it's not. It's him. It's Picard.
TROI: Troi to Bridge.

[Bridge]
TROI: Data has made first contact with Captain Picard.
RIKER: Can you communicate with him, Data?

[Data's lab]
DATA: I have been unable to create a neural path around the Borg implants, sir. It is Captain Picard himself who has somehow managed to initiate contact.

[Data's lab]
DATA: Sir, it is clear the Borg are either unwilling or unable to terminate their subspace links.
CRUSHER: That may be their Achilles heel, Captain. Their interdependency.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What do you mean, Doctor?
CRUSHER: He's

[Data's lab]
CRUSHER: Part of their collective consciousness now. Cutting him off would like asking one of us to disconnect an arm or a foot

[Data's lab]
DATA: It is conceivable, sir, but it would require altering the pathway from the root command

[Bridge]
DATA: To affect all iterative branch points in the
RIKER: Make every effort, Mister Data.
DATA: Sir

[Data's lab]
DATA: What command shall I try to plant?

[Data's lab]
DATA: Attempting to re-route subcommand paths, Captain. Defense systems are protected by access barriers.

[Bridge]
WORF: Borg attempting to lock on tractor beam.
RIKER: Rotate shield frequencies. Data, report?

[Data's lab]
DATA: I am unable to penetrate defense systems command structure

[Data's lab]
DATA: Attempting new power subcommand path.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Shields have failed. They've

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Locked on, sir. They're pulling us in.
RIKER: Fire all weapons.

[Data's lab]
DATA: I cannot penetrate Borg power subcommand structure, sir.

[Data's lab]
PICARD: Sleep.
CRUSHER: He's regaining consciousness.
PICARD: Sleep.
TROI: It is Captain Picard speaking, not Locutus.
PICARD: Sleep, Data.
CRUSHER: He's exhausted.
DATA: Yes, Doctor, but if I may make a supposition, I do not believe his message was intended to express fatigue but to suggest a course of action.

[Bridge]
WORF: Borg cutting beam activated.
RIKER: Mister Crusher? Engage.
DATA: Data to Bridge. Stand by.
RIKER: Stand by, all stations.

[Data's lab]
DATA: I successfully planted a command into the Borg collective consciousness, sir. It misdirected them to believe it was time to regenerate. In effect, I put them all to sleep.

[Data's lab]
RIKER: Stand by.
CRUSHER: There's no way to know what the destruction of the Borg ship will do to him.
DATA: We should also consider the advantages of further examination of the Borg and their vessel, sir.
RIKER: I don't think so. Data, separate yourself from Captain Picard. Away Team, get yourselves home. Mister Crusher, upon their return move us to a safe position.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
CRUSHER: Life signs are stable. The DNA around the microcircuit fiber implants is returning to normal.
TROI: How do you feel?
PICARD: Almost human. With just a bit of a headache.
CRUSHER: We'll get you to Sickbay. We won't have any trouble getting these implants out now.
RIKER: How much do you remember?
PICARD: Everything. Including some brilliantly unorthodox strategy from a former first officer of mine.

[Bridge]
WORF: I get no further response from the vessel.
PICARD: Maintain an open channel.
RIKER: Doctor Crusher and her assistants are waiting in Transporter room three.
DATA: Sir, may I remind you that during the Galen border conflict, it was a common tactic of the Talarians was to abandon their observation craft, rig them to self destruct
PICARD: And issue a general distress call. Yes, Mister Data, I know.
DATA: That particular guerrilla maneuver resulted in two hundred and nineteen fatalities over a three day period.
RIKER: Is there any way to detect their self-destruct device?
DATA: Negative, sir. The Talarians employ a subspace proximity detonator. It is not detectable by our scans.
RIKER: Or the away team's tricorders. Right.
WORF: Captain, the Talarian warship the Q'Maire is responding to the distress call.
PICARD: Position?
WORF: Halfway through the Woden sector.
WESLEY: It'll take them hours to get here, sir, even at maximum warp.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: There is life on board, but it's fading.
PICARD: Number One, assemble the rest of your away team. Prepare for immediate rescue operations.
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: He managed to escape radiation trauma but the scan shows something else.
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: Two previously fractured ribs, a broken arm, and a low grade concussion. There might be neurological impairment. I'd like to examine him further. Jean-Luc, the Talarians have been known to be ruthless to their enemies. I think there's a real possibility they may have brutalized the child.
PICARD: Isn't it possible the injuries were caused prior to his captivity?
CRUSHER: Not likely. He's been with them a long time. Long enough to assimilate their cultural traits, and calcium trace patterns indicate the injuries took place during the past seven years.
PICARD: But if they have abused the boy, why would he so devoutly wish to return to them?
CRUSHER: It's not uncommon. It was identified centuries ago as the Stockholm syndrome.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: By matching DNA gene types, Starfleet was able to identify the boy as Jeremiah Rossa.
RIKER: Rossa?
PICARD: As in Admiral Rossa?
DATA: She is his grandmother, Captain. He was born fourteen years ago on the Federation colony, Galen Four. His parents, Connor and Moira Rossa, were killed three years, nine months later when their colony was overrun by Talarian forces.
PICARD: I remember. There were no survivors.
DATA: The boy was listed as missing, presumed dead.
RIKER: I heard another Rossa was killed in action at the Krasner outpost.
PICARD: Tragedy seems to follow that family. The Admiral lost both her sons.
CRUSHER: And now she'll have something to celebrate.
TROI: Captain, if Jeremiah is returned to his family in his present condition, it would be a wrenching experience for everyone. Especially for him. He needs to re-discover his identity, make some connection with his roots.
PICARD: I agree. Do what you can to accomplish that, Counselor.
TROI: I don't think I can do anything, Captain.
PICARD: Why not?
CRUSHER: Troi's right. It's very clear that the boy does not respond well to women.
DATA: The Talarians are a rigidly patriarchical society, sir.
TROI: Jeremiah needs to build a relationship with a man, a father figure with whom he can explore his origins. And I think it should be you, Captain.
PICARD: Oh, no, Counselor! Oh, no, Counselor, I don't think so. He needs someone who is trained in these things.
TROI: But you are the only person with whom he has shown any connection. If he is to find his humanity then you are the only one who can help him. It's up to you, Captain.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
TROI: You wanted to see me, Captain?
PICARD: Yes, Counselor. Please, come in, sit down.
PICARD: You're probably not aware of this, but I have never been particularly comfortable around children.
TROI: Really?
PICARD: For some reason, they just don't seem to respond to me.
TROI: I see.
PICARD: Frankly, I think my time would be best served carrying out the duties and responsibilities of a Starfleet Captain.
TROI: Seldom have I heard an explanation so well-rehearsed.
PICARD: Look, Counselor, I just feel that I'm not the right person for this job.
TROI: Strange, isn't it? You'll travel light years, dodge asteroid storms, brave hostile aliens, and yet when asked to assume a parental role, you cringe. Why do you suppose that is?
PICARD: I'm not cringing. I'm just acknowledging my limitations.
TROI: When you were a child, did you have any friends? Other children you played with?
PICARD: I don't think that has anything to do with anything. Well, perhaps it was because. This is foolish.
TROI: What were you going to say?
PICARD: it's just that ever since I was a child I've always known exactly what I wanted to do. Be a member of Starfleet. Nothing else mattered to me. Virtually my entire youth was spent in the pursuit of that goal. In fact, I probably skipped my childhood altogether.
TROI: You know, Captain, almost no one is born being a good parent. Most people just have to muddle through and do the best that they can.
PICARD: Are you saying that's what I'm going to have to do?
TROI: Yes. And you might be surprised at just how good you can be.

[Doctor's office]
PICARD: So you think it would be unwise to let Endar see Jono?
CRUSHER: I think it's dangerous. Abusers can have subtle but powerful influence over their victims.
PICARD: You see, I'm not convinced the boy has been abused, Doctor. I've talked with the father, and if I am any judge of character, I would say that he deeply cares for the boy's welfare.
TROI: I sense awakening memories in the boy. This is a very fragile time for Jono. If we send away the man he calls father without even letting them see each other, how will we ever gain his trust?
PICARD: Yes. There is something else to keep in mind. We are deep in Talarian territory. A semblance of diplomacy is called for. I'm going to agree to the meeting.
CRUSHER: All I ask is that the visit be supervised. Don't let them be alone together.
PICARD: Agreed.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, sensors indicate two warships approaching from the opposite direction along the border.
PICARD: Mister Data, what's their offensive potential?
DATA: Talarian warships are limited to neutral particle weapons, high energy X-ray lasers and merculite rockets. No match for the Enterprise, Captain.
PICARD: The last thing I want is to be forced into destroying one of their ships.
RIKER: They won't back off. They've been willing to fight to the death in past encounters.
PICARD: The lines are being drawn. All this for a chosen son.
WORF: Captain, is it worth it, to go to war over a child?
CRUSHER: You might not ask that, Lieutenant, if it was your child.
PICARD: There must be a way to avoid this.
TROI: If we can just reach Jono, help him make some connections with his origins, he may choose to come with us.
RIKER: You really think Endar would go along with that?
DATA: If Endar respects Talarian custom, he may have to. According to their tradition, a male child of fourteen has reached the age of decision. He then undergoes a ceremony of initiation, after which he has the freedom to make his own choices.
PICARD: Endar's entire claim on Jono is based on Talarian custom he'd have a hard time backing away from it now.
WORF: Captain, there is a subspace communication from Starfleet Command.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: Sir, the message is for Jeremiah Rossa.
PICARD: Have the boy brought to my Ready Room.

[Bridge]
WORF: Talarian warships converging. Range, five hundred kilometers.
RIKER: On screen. Any communication, Lieutenant Worf?
WORF: No, sir. We have an open channel.
WESLEY: Commander, the warships' closing velocities are slowing. Staggered approach vectors bearing zero, one hundred twenty, and two hundred forty degrees.
RIKER: Riker to La Forge.
LAFORGE: La Forge here, sir.
RIKER: The Talarians are moving

[Engineering]
RIKER: Into attack posture. Classic triangular envelopment.
LAFORGE: I've tapped the impulse engines for additional power to shields.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Back so soon, Mister Data?
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge.
PICARD: Go ahead, Commander.
LAFORGE: Captain, we've completed our dilithium vector calibrations. We are currently at warp four point five. You're clear to increase to warp seven.
PICARD: Very good, Geordi. Let me know if you
WORF: Captain, did you request a course correction?
LAFORGE: I didn't say we could increase speed to warp nine point one, sir.
WESLEY: New course set for heading three four one mark two two one.
RIKER: Course set by whom?
WESLEY: Not by me, Commander.
PICARD: What's going on?
RIKER: Data, who programmed the new coordinates?
WESLEY: Warp nine point three, Commander.
LAFORGE: I don't advise this, Captain.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: If we're going to maintain our realignment progressions we shouldn't be pushing warp eight for at least an hour.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: He is on the Bridge, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, prepare for saucer separation.
WESLEY: Sir, we're at Warp nine three.
PICARD: I am aware of the risks, Ensign. When the umbilical splits, we should regain primary control, do you agree?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
PICARD: The saucer module should fall out of warp in two minutes. Be prepared to sweep back. Pull it in with a tractor beam.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Initiate auto sequence.

[Jefferies tube]
WORF: The isolinear subprocessor extends three point five meters.
RIKER: I've got a clear path to panel J14 baker. What's that going to do for us?
WORF: J14 baker backs onto science station two, Commander.
RIKER: Have they reinverted the environmental control sequencer?
WORF: Yes, sir. Life support has been re-established.
RIKER: Then you and Casey get up here. Let's get to it.

[Bridge]
DATA: Computer, configure a perimeter field charge, sections Nine K through Twelve T.

[Jefferies tube]
RIKER: What the hell was that?
WORF: He's activated a force field, sir.
RIKER: Great. Just great.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Chief O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: We had better disable the site to site transport function.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: When we get wherever we're going, I don't want Mister Data beaming off the Bridge.
O'BRIEN: I'll get right to it, sir.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Is your quarantine intact?
CRUSHER: So far, sickbay force fields don't seem to have been affected.
PICARD: The boy?

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: He's alright. But he's not going to stay alright. Sir, we have to get this ship to a starbase medical facility.
PICARD: It seems, Doctor

[Engineering]
PICARD: That Data has other plans for the Enterprise right now.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: No matter what we try, the computer will only accept commands from the Bridge, sir.
WORF: He has blocked every subspace channel, sir. We cannot even call for help.
PICARD: Have you tried tracing back navigation inputs?
WESLEY: We don't even know what star system we're in, sir.
RIKER: The only way we knew we'd come out of warp was by looking out a window.
O'BRIEN: O'Brien to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Chief.
O'BRIEN: Captain, he's up to something.
PICARD: What now?

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: He discovered the site to site lockout. I wouldn't be surprised if he

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: He's out! Security team approaching location.

[Corridor]
DATA: Intersection eight J, aft port. Establish.
WORF: I order you to stop.
DATA: Computer, begin scan phase.
WORF: No, no, that's too close.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: This has gone far enough, Data.
DATA: Computer, three meter cross seal.
O'BRIEN: I wouldn't advise that, sir. The phase coils don't take well to ricochets.
RIKER: What's he doing?
O'BRIEN: He's reactivating the site to site transport interlocks.
RIKER: Does that mean he'll be able to

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Captain, the quarantine field in Sickbay.
PICARD: You have access to it?
WESLEY: When he transferred force field control to the Bridge, he must have only specified fields he was planning to initiate. The quarantine field was already operating.
LAFORGE: Under normal circumstances, we could divert that field energy and use it to cancel the force field protecting the Bridge, but we have to retain the medical quarantine.
PICARD: Determine the absolute minimum field energy Doctor Crusher needs and use the rest to get me onto my Bridge.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Beverly thinks its going to be tight. Let's hope he didn't take us too far off course.
PICARD: Let's hope.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: We have control of sensors, life support and auxiliary power, Captain. Nothing more.
PICARD: The code, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: We can't even locate the file address. At least that would tell us how many digits we're talking about. Not that it would really help.
PICARD: I want something that will really help.
CRUSHER: And quickly too. Willie Potts has twenty four hours, thirty six tops. If it goes much longer than that, the only thing left for Starbase four one six will be to do a postmortem.
RIKER: Geordi, if the computer's programmed to allow Data to transport down, it would figure that it would allow him to beam back up. Right?
LAFORGE: It would figure.
RIKER: And Data would have left a trace imprint when he beamed down?
LAFORGE: Sure. Everyone does.
RIKER: So what would be involved in pulling that trace and finding a way to make the computer think someone else is Data? Maybe a few someone else's?
LAFORGE: We'd have to access the transport controller, reset it to a testing mode, convince it that it's back in school accepting simulated inputs. That's not going to be easy without the main computer. But I suppose we could network a few tricorders together.
PICARD: Try, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.

[Corridor]
PICARD: They're sure this is going to work?
RIKER: Nobody knows the transporters better than O'Brien and La Forge. They tell me they've managed more than a little sleight of hand with our authorisation codes.
PICARD: They can insert them into the recall loop?
RIKER: The computer should think all three of us are Data.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: I just hope we don't all beam back looking like Data.
O'BRIEN: Whenever you say, sir.
PICARD: Bring him home, Number One. Energize.

[Outside Soong's lab]
WORF: The human is here.
RIKER: And Data?
WORF: No way of knowing.
RIKER: Set them on stun.

[Corridor]
PICARD: The transfer went well?
CRUSHER: He'll remain in quarantine for another week or two, but he's out of the woods.
PICARD: Splendid.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: Mister Data, I see you gifts have been well received.
DATA: Yes, sir. The boys appear to have reconciled their differences.
CRUSHER: They're brothers, Data. Brothers forgive.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Thank you. Please take that to Engineering.
WORF: Phaser upgrades are complete, Commander.
RIKER: Already?
WORF: And we have begun power supply calibration.
RIKER: You're just too damned efficient, Lieutenant.
WORF: Thank you, sir.
RIKER: Continue with the testing, Mister Worf. Here's the final schedule for the shore leave and for the personnel transfers. By the way, I'm looking forward to meeting your parents.
WORF: Sir?
RIKER: They're on the visitors' list. You didn't know?
WORF: No, sir. It is inappropriate for a Klingon to receive family while on duty. As humans, my parents do not understand.
RIKER: Well, I'm not sure that I would either, Worf, since this isn't a Klingon ship. If you don't want to see your parents, that's your business, but we don't get to Earth all that often. I'm sure we can arrange for you to have more off duty time while they're here.
WORF: No, sir. That will not be necessary.
RIKER: Dismissed. Mister Worf, if you're worried that they might learn about what happened on the Klingon planet
WORF: Not at all. I have already informed them by correspondence of my discommendation. I do not believe any human can truly understand my dishonor.

[Picard's quarters]
TROI: So, where have you decided to go?
PICARD: Hmm? What? Oh, er, France. Labarre. My home village.
TROI: Really?
PICARD: Yes. It's the first time in almost twenty years.
TROI: Interesting.
PICARD: Counselor.
TROI: I just find it interesting. Captain Jean-Luc Picard, the man who couldn't be pried out of his seat for a vacation for three years
PICARD: It's Earth. It's home. Do I need another reason?
TROI: I don't know. What do you think?
PICARD: Your help has been invaluable during my recovery, but, look, I'm better. The injuries are healing.
TROI: Those you can see in the mirror.
PICARD: The nightmares have ended. All I need now is a little time to myself.
TROI: I agree. In fact, I'm delighted you're going. It's just that the choice of where you're going could stand some scrutiny.
PICARD: If you wish to believe that my going home is a direct result of being held captive by the Borg, be my guest.
TROI: Is that what you believe?
PICARD: I hate it when you do that.
TROI: Captain, you do need time. You cannot achieve complete recovery so quickly. And it's perfectly normal, after what you've been through, to spend a great deal of time trying to find yourself again.
PICARD: And what better place to find oneself than on the streets of one's home village.
TROI: Interesting. Have a good trip, Captain.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: So, you'll have a chance to visit the surface?
TROI: Maybe. Will and I have been talking about going back to Angel Falls.
CRUSHER: Oh, Venezuela's beautiful.
CRUSHER: Come in.
CRUSHER: Great. Thank you. (When she opens it we see the label - Lt Cmdr Jack R Crusher, USS Stargazer NCC 2893)
TROI: Something from home?
CRUSHER: I left it here in storage a long time ago after Jack died. Odds and ends, mostly.
TROI: How to Advance Your Career through Marriage?
CRUSHER: It was a joke. Jack sent it to me while I was still in medical school. It was his way of proposing to me.
TROI: What's that?
CRUSHER: It's for Wesley, from Jack. I'd forgotten it. Maybe I was just trying to forget it.
TROI: Why?
CRUSHER: Jack recorded a holographic message to Wesley just after he was born. It was a gift for when he grew up. Jack was going to make many more of them. He never had the chance.
TROI: Are you afraid of what it might say?
CRUSHER: No, I just don't know if it'll do more harm than good. Wesley's finally come to terms with his father's death.
TROI: Wesley has a lot of questions about his father. Things that you can't answer for him. Perhaps seeing this will help him understand.

[Crusher's office]
WESLEY: I don't understand, Mom. What kind of message?
CRUSHER: I don't know exactly. Your father made it a few weeks after you were born.
WESLEY: Why?
CRUSHER: He felt it was important to say certain things. And to make sure that he didn't forget to tell you later.
WESLEY: Do you know what it says?
CRUSHER: No. But he wanted you to have this when you turned eighteen. And I want you to have it, too.

[Ready room]
WORF: Sir, I have several teams conducting a deck by deck search. It is not yet complete.
DATA: I have scanned the entire ship, Captain. Other than the Enterprise's regular complement, I can find no one else onboard.
CRUSHER: Your sensors wouldn't detect him if he were dead.
DATA: That is correct, Doctor.
PICARD: Could your friend have returned to the starbase without telling you? An emergency of some sort?
CRUSHER: There were a lot of people going back and forth between the ship and the starbase yesterday.
DATA: We can easily check the transporter ID traces.
PICARD: By all means check the trace log. But even if the results are negative, contact Starbase Command. We should leave nothing to chance.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: One moment, Doctor. I'm sure you are aware of the procedure involving passengers.
CRUSHER: Of course. I don't know why Lieutenant Worf wasn't told about Doctor Quaice.
PICARD: I was not informed either.
CRUSHER: But I sent in a request weeks ago.
PICARD: Then it must have been intercepted before it reached me.
CRUSHER: And someone else sent the approval? Why?
PICARD: Doctor Quaice had been stationed at the starbase for some time?
CRUSHER: Six years.
PICARD: Perhaps it would be prudent to find out if he'd acquired any enemies there.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Course laid in for Durenia Four, sir.
PICARD: Thank you, Number One. Mister Data?
DATA: Sir, Starbase one three three has no record at all of a Doctor Dalen Quaice.
PICARD: You said he was stationed there for six years.
DATA: Not according to their computer. I have also accessed Starfleet records. There is no doctor currently serving in Starfleet named Quaice. In fact, I can find no service record whatsoever. There are no birth records with that name. I find no
CRUSHER: Data, I interned with him on Delos Four. I've known him for fifteen years.
DATA: I do not doubt you, Doctor, but I have tried one hundred seventy three phonetic variations of the name, and I
CRUSHER: His name is Dalen Quaice. Q U A I C E. Whatever your records say, they're wrong.
PICARD: Mister Worf?
WORF: We have completed our search, Captain. We cannot locate Doctor Quaice.
RIKER: You're not alone.
CRUSHER: He was on board. I met him myself in Transporter room three.
PICARD: Then it appears, for reasons unknown, someone has gone to great pains to erase all traces of this man.
RIKER: Who was on transporter duty when he came aboard?

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Doctor Quaice? Was he part of the regular crew rotation?
RIKER: No. He's a friend of Doctor Crusher's.
O'BRIEN: When did he arrive?
CRUSHER: Yesterday at sixteen hundred hours.
O'BRIEN: That was my watch. I beamed this man onboard?
CRUSHER: Yes. I was here to greet him. An elderly man, not in the best of health.
O'BRIEN: I'm sorry. I remember you were here for a short while, but you were alone.
CRUSHER: Was he invisible? Did I carry on a conversation with thin air?
O'BRIEN: No, Doctor. As I recall, you came in and you looked around for a few moments. I asked you if I could help you with anything. All you said was 'Thank you.' I said, 'My pleasure,' or something, and that was the end of it. There was no one else here.

[Turbolift]
CRUSHER: I can't believe that Chief O'Brien might be lying.
RIKER: He believes what he says. And there is no trace imprint for Doctor Quaice.
CRUSHER: Will, I didn't conjure up one of my best friends from a test tube.
RIKER: If the ship's records have been tampered with, then transporter records could have been changed as well.
CRUSHER: And with everybody coming and going yesterday, maybe O'Brien just doesn't remember, or
RIKER: Or?
CRUSHER: It might be a good idea to run a diagnostic on him.
RIKER: To make sure he wasn't tampered with?
CRUSHER: What do you think?
RIKER: It's worth a try. I'll check the replicator activity logs. Eighteen hours is a long time to go without food. Or without someone seeing him.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: Doctors Hill and Selar, and four other members of my medical staff have all vanished. All record of their ever having been on the Enterprise has been excised from the computer's memory.
PICARD: Did they come aboard with Doctor Quaice?
CRUSHER: No. They've been on board for months. But my two duty nurses don't remember them. Their families don't even remember them.
PICARD: As O'Brien didn't remember Doctor Quaice.
CRUSHER: I checked O'Brien thoroughly. I found no physiological abnormalities.
WESLEY: Crusher to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Ensign.
WESLEY: I'm in Engineering, sir.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: There's something down here I think you'd better see. It may be connected to Doctor Quaice's disappearance.
PICARD: On my way.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Progress, Number One?
RIKER: No one's seen him. The replicator in his quarters has not been used.
PICARD: Mister Worf, check hull and shield integrity for any sign of intruders.
WORF: Yes, sir, but I have been closely monitoring all on-board sensors. There has been no indication that any
PICARD: Then give me a Level One diagnostic of any onboard sensors, and run a manual sweep of any anomalous airborne or electromagnetic readings. I want some answers.

[Engineering]
WESLEY: I've been experimenting with Kosinski's warp field equations, trying to improve engine efficiency.
PICARD: I've read your reports.
LAFORGE: We did a test run while we were still at the starbase. Here's what the computer recorded.
WESLEY: This is the static warp field we created inside the warp drive. The experiment was designed to see if we could keep a bubble like this intact.
LAFORGE: As you'll see in a moment, we couldn't.
LAFORGE: There was a momentary flash of light. It was all over the spectrum.
CRUSHER: I remember that.
PICARD: Are you suggesting that a bubble could have made Doctor Quaice disappear?
WESLEY: If he were caught in it, yes, sir, it would seem to us like he'd disappeared.
CRUSHER: Where would he go?
LAFORGE: Who knows. He could even end up outside of our space time continuum.
PICARD: Was Doctor Quaice in Engineering during your experiment?
LAFORGE: No, sir.
PICARD: And the bubble never expanded beyond Engineering?
WESLEY: No, sir.
PICARD: Then how could it have trapped Doctor Quaice or the others?
LAFORGE: There are others missing?
CRUSHER: Yes, and they weren't anywhere near Engineering.
WESLEY: It doesn't make sense.
PICARD: I doubt the warp bubble could alter computer records, or erase memories. Keep at it, Ensign, Mister La Forge. It's our only working theory for now.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Has something else happened?
CRUSHER: Sickbay is totally empty. Apparently I no longer have any staff.
RIKER: And that surprises you, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Surprises me? I'll say it surprises me. There should be at least four members of my staff on duty at all times.
DATA: I am afraid ship's records do not concur. Doctor.
CRUSHER: What are you talking about?
DATA: You do not have a staff.
CRUSHER: You're telling me I'm the sole medical officer on a ship with over a thousand people on board?
DATA: Excuse me, Doctor, but the entire ship's complement is two hundred and thirty.
CRUSHER: What?
PICARD: Doctor, may I see you in my Ready room?

[Ready room]
PICARD: Would you care for something? So, Beverly. Tea, Earl Gray, hot. You're saying this ship has lost nearly eight hundred of its personnel?
CRUSHER: I know how it sounds.
PICARD: None of the scans show any anomalies. No signs of an intruder. Wesley's experiment clearly did not have the scope to affect an entire starship.
CRUSHER: Captain, the Enterprise is in serious danger. You must believe me.
PICARD: I have no choice but to believe you. The safety of my entire crew is at stake, but I must be sure.
CRUSHER: That I haven't lost my mind? I just examined myself. And being the only doctor on board, I had to do it myself. There were no signs of dysfunction. Yes, there was an increased elevation of adrenalin, but I think is understandable.
PICARD: Did you find anything that might suggest why you're apparently the only one among us unaffected by this, this phenomenon?
CRUSHER: No. I'll talk to Troi.
PICARD: It wouldn't do any harm.
CRUSHER: Captain, please. Return this ship to Starbase one three three for a full diagnostic. I realize you have my word only to convince you.
PICARD: Mister Riker?
RIKER: Captain?
PICARD: Set a course for a return to Starbase one three three immediately.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Your word has always been good enough for me.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: I've had a team in Sickbay for two hours. We've run the mass spectrometer on all particulates. We've scanned the EM spectrum in case there was a wave guide somehow leaking radiation. We've even crawled in the life support ductwork. Captain, I don't know what this vortex was that Doctor Crusher saw.
CRUSHER: I didn't just see it. I felt it. I barely escaped from it.
LAFORGE: Well, there's nothing there now. And no sign there ever was.
PICARD: Is there any possible connection with Mister Crusher's experiment? Could this warp bubble be floating around the ship perhaps?
LAFORGE: No, sir. That bubble was definitely contained in Engineering. There's no way it could possibly have affected anything up on deck twelve.
DATA: Sir, I have completed level one computer diagnostics. There are no malfunctions.
RIKER: Any other ships respond to our queries, Data?
DATA: The Wellington is the only Federation vessel in this sector. It reports normal operations. A Ferengi ship within communications range also reports nothing unusual.
CRUSHER: Are all members of the crew accounted for?
DATA: Yes, Doctor.
CRUSHER: How many are there?
DATA: There are one hundred and fourteen people on the Enterprise.
CRUSHER: What?
DATA: That is the exact number there should be.
CRUSHER: There are now over nine hundred missing. Deck after deck of this ship is deserted now. How do you account for all the empty rooms? If there are supposed to be only a hundred and fourteen people on board, why all the extra space?
DATA: Transportation of colonists, diplomatic missions, emergency evacuations.
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data. Have security confine all nonessential personnel to their quarters. Computer, go to Red Alert.
CRUSHER: I'd like Lieutenant Worf to program onboard sensors to monitor all personnel. If we can catch the exact moment someone disappears
PICARD: I'm sorry, whom did you say?
CRUSHER: Worf. Chief of Security. The big guy who never smiles? The Klingon!

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Deanna. I need you to tell me if I've gone completely mad.
TROI: If you can ask the question, I'd say no.
CRUSHER: Don't evade the question.
TROI: Then ask me one I can answer.
CRUSHER: Deanna, I've delivered babies that no longer exist. No one else remembers them. Yet I can close my eyes, and see their faces as clearly as I see yours now. What if it's not some huge conspiracy? What if it is just me?
TROI: What if it is just you?
CRUSHER: Then I've delayed a mission, frightened a lot of people including myself.
TROI: So what? You've acted in the best interest of your ship and crew. What more could you ask of yourself? If it turns out to be a mistake, then we'll be a little late arriving at Durenia Four. That's all.
CRUSHER: It's not a mistake. I wish it were.
TROI: When we reach Starbase, I'll order a complete workup, both physical and psychological.
CRUSHER: If we reach Starbase. Wesley. Where's Wesley?

[Engineering]
CRUSHER: Wesley?
WESLEY: Mom? Are you all right?
CRUSHER: No. We may have very little time left. You don't believe me.
WESLEY: Look, Mom, I don't know.
CRUSHER: I don't have time to convince you. Hundreds of people are missing and your experiment is the only possible explanation we have that we can work on right now.
WESLEY: Well, there it is. I don't know what else to do with it.
CRUSHER: Then find someone who does, someone who knows something about warp bubbles.
WESLEY: I've already talked to Kosinski on subspace, and he can't explain it either. And this is based on his equations. There is someone who may be able to help, but I can't reach him.
CRUSHER: Who?
WESLEY: He was Kosinski's assistant. He was an alien from Tau Alpha C. He said he was some kind of Traveler. Somehow he combined warp technology and the energy from his own thoughts.
CRUSHER: Yes, I remember. Wesley, do you think it's possible that you've accidentally recreated something that he did? Something that could alter reality?
WESLEY: I don't see how. He's the only one who could explain it to us. I sent a message to Tau Alpha C, but it's so far away, it could take days to get there.
CRUSHER: Maybe the Captain can help us. We've got to find him. Come on.
WESLEY: I don't even know if he's still alive. He was very sick.
CRUSHER: Well, we can't stand around here doing nothing.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: It's a chance. We have to try to...
CRUSHER: Wesley.

[Engineering]
CRUSHER: Wesley?

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, approaching Starbase one three three.
PICARD: Slow to ten meters per second.
RIKER: Mister La Forge, prepare for precision

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, we have re-established exact coordinates and attitude.
RIKER: Geordi, we're in position. Your status?
LAFORGE: The warp bubble is contracting at a rate of

[Bridge]
PICARD: I'll be in Engineering.

[Riker's quarters]
WORF: One.
RIKER: Are you trying to fill another inside straight, Worf? Don't say I didn't warn you.
WORF: Pah!
TROI: I fold.
DATA: I will raise you three.
RIKER: No cards? The best poker face I've ever seen. Dealer takes two. Your three and ten more.
DATA: I will see your ten, and raise you twenty.
RIKER: Data, Have you got a flush or a full house?
DATA: It will cost you twenty to make that determination, sir.
RIKER: Dealer folds.
TROI: You two have successfully divided the evening between you.
WORF: I suspect conspiracy. Far be it for me to accuse my superior officers.
RIKER: You're getting harder and harder to bluff, Data. You've learned this game very well.
DATA: Yes sir, I believe I have.
RIKER: Tell you what. I'll bet that I can find any card that you hide in this deck. And furthermore, I will make you help me find it.
TROI: Careful, Data.
DATA: Your guidance is much valued, Counselor. However.
RIKER: Pick a card. Don't let me see it. Now lose it in the deck. Cut the deck into two even piles.
RIKER: Okay. Once more time. And again. How many cards?
DATA: Eleven.
RIKER: Take five. Throw them away.
RIKER: Pick three more. Okay, now pick one of those. Is that your card?
TROI: Incredible.
DATA: Not at all, Counselor. You surreptitiously placed the edge of your left thumb against the card. When you divided the deck to reshuffle, you kept that card on top. You thus were able to have me either save or diskard, depending on the location of the card, which you followed at each step until we were left with just one. The card I originally chose. Sir, I believe under the circumstances
PICARD: Picard to Riker.
RIKER: Captain?
PICARD: We've received a distress call. We're changing course to intercept.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 44215.2. The Enterprise has bypassed its scheduled archeological survey of Camus Two in response to a distress call from the Federation freighter Arcos, which has assumed an emergency orbit around Turkana Four, birthplace of our late comrade, Tasha Yar.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Mister O'Brien, prepare to lock onto the two crewmen.
O'BRIEN: Aye, Captain.

[Bridge]
DATA: We are now entering the Turkana system, sir.
PICARD: Slow to impulse.
DATA: Visual contact.
RIKER: Get them out of there, O'Brien.
RIKER: Status, O'Brien?
O'BRIEN: There's nothing to lock onto, Commander.
DATA: I am reading an ion trail characteristic of a freighter escape pod.
WORF: Unable to establish contact.
PICARD: It could have been damaged by the explosion. They may have been able to maintain orbit.
RIKER: Let's hope they stay clear of the colony.
DATA: That is exactly where the ion trail is leading, Commander.
PICARD: Hail the colony.
WORF: I've been trying to, Captain. No response.
RIKER: They haven't been able to maintain reliable communications since their government fell apart.
DATA: The last Federation vessel to make contact was the Potemkin, six years ago. They were warned that anyone transporting down to the colony would be killed.
PICARD: Number One, ready an away team.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We are in orbit above Turkana Four, an Earth colony that severed relations with the Federation nearly fifteen years ago. I am concerned about sending an away team, but if we are to discover the fate of the two missing Federation crewmen, I see no alternative.

[Transporter room]
DATA: The surface settlement appears to be all but destroyed. Sensors show that the colonists now live in structures that extend nearly three kilometers beneath the city.
RIKER: Have you located the escape pod's landing point, Chief?
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. Three hundred meters beyond the colony perimeter.
WORF: Sir, we can anticipate a violent response to our presence. Perhaps the Doctor should wait here until we signal.
CRUSHER: I appreciate your concern. I think it's exaggerated.
WORF: The colony is completely lawless. Lieutenant Yar spoke of rape gangs and
CRUSHER: Mister Worf, I can handle myself.
RIKER: She's coming. The Arcos crewmen may require immediate medical assistance. Phasers on maximum stun. Energize.

[Level 3C, 547]
RIKER: Enterprise, we're in position.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Mister O'Brien, energize.
O'BRIEN: Aye, Captain.

[Level 3C, 547]
LAFORGE: Damn!
RIKER: Geordi, what is taking so long?
LAFORGE: There's a lot of damage here. The myographic scanner is operational, but the power source keeps fluctuating.
RIKER: Can you fix it?
LAFORGE: I can probably run a shunt from the convertor.
RIKER: How long will that take?
LAFORGE: Ten minutes?
RIKER: Do it. O'Brien, lock onto Ishara and get her out of here!

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: There's a transformer substation directly above the chamber she just entered. It's masking her signal.

[Level 3C, 547]
RIKER: Stand by. Stay here and cover La Forge.
WORF: Commander!
RIKER: That's an order. Return to the ship as soon as you're finished. I'll signal for transport as soon as I can.

[Tunnel]
RIKER: Get us out of here.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Energizing.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: How is she?
RIKER: A couple of cracked ribs. She'll be all right.
PICARD: Doctor Crusher just called me with the results of the DNA comparison. Ishara is Tasha's sister.
RIKER: After what she did for us down there, that doesn't surprise me one bit.
PICARD: You took some unnecessary personal risks, Number One.
RIKER: We lost Tasha on an away team under my command. The thought of the same thing happening to her sister
PICARD: That's an emotional response, Will. We can't afford it.
RIKER: Understood, Captain.
PICARD: Commander. Well done.

[Ready room]
DATA: Ishara is willing to have the implant removed, sir.
PICARD: Good. Inform Doctor Crusher.
DATA: She also expressed a desire to leave the colony. She hopes to apply to the Academy and eventually join Starfleet.
PICARD: Does she understand the magnitude of these decisions?
DATA: She claims to, Captain.
TROI: I get a sense of ambiguity from her. Her loyalties are clearly divided, Captain.
PICARD: Are you suggesting we deny her an escape from this environment?
TROI: No, I'm just not sure she wants to escape. It's the only way of life she's ever known.
PICARD: Ultimately, it is her decision to make, not ours. Mister Data, proceed with the mission as planned.
TROI: Data?
DATA: Yes, Counselor?
TROI: You seem so strong in your support. I'm curious.
DATA: We must free the crewmen. She appears to be our best hope of doing so. In addition, I have become used to her.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Picard to Riker. Is your away team ready?
RIKER: Waiting for your signal, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Status, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Phasers in alignment and ready to fire.
PICARD: How far must we penetrate to safely allow transporter function?
LAFORGE: One point six kilometers.
PICARD: Fire phasers.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: One point three kilometers. One point four. One point five kilometers. One point six kilometers. Deep enough for transport, sir.
PICARD: Cease fire. Mister O'Brien, energize.

[Chamber]
RIKER: Hold out your hands.
RIKER: Let's get moving.

[Tunnel]
RIKER: Where is she?
WORF: Commander, look.
RIKER: What the hell happened here?
WORF: She probably tried to draw their fire. It triggered the alarm.
RIKER: Worf, get these men back to the Enterprise.
WORF: Come on.
RIKER: Data, you're with me.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come in.
RIKER: Data, what's on your mind?
DATA: Recent events have left me puzzled, sir. It has been days since Ishara left, and yet my thoughts seem to dwell on her. Almost as if I were experiencing a feedback loop in my mnemonic network.
RIKER: I know what you mean.
DATA: It is curious that I was so easily misled.
RIKER: Make that we.
DATA: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Data, sit down.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
RIKER: In all trust, there is the possibility of betrayal. I'm not sure you were prepared for that.
DATA: Were you prepared, sir?
RIKER: I don't think anybody ever is.
DATA: Then it is better not to trust.
RIKER: Without trust, there's no friendship, no closeness. None of the emotional bonds that make us what we are.
DATA: And yet you put yourself at risk.
RIKER: Every single time.
DATA: Perhaps I am fortunate, sir, to be spared the emotional consequences.
RIKER: Perhaps.

[Schoolroom]
WORF: There is no honor in attacking the weak.
ALEXANDER: I would have won.
WORF: No. You must earn victory.

[Corridor]
ALEXANDER: Where are the other Klingons?
WORF: There are no others on board.
ALEXANDER: Why?
WORF: The Federation and the Klingon Empire were enemies for many years. No other Klingons have asked to serve in Starfleet.
ALEXANDER: Why?
WORF: A warrior does not ask so many questions.
ALEXANDER: I don't want to be a warrior.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Worf, the next few days will be difficult for you
WORF: You have made it clear that I am to perform my regular duties, sir.
PICARD: I want you to know that I am aware of your discomfort.
WORF: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Ambassador K'Ehleyr will be preparing me for my role in the rite of succession.
WORF: Permission to speak freely, sir?
PICARD: Granted.
WORF: Duras must not be allowed to lead the council.
PICARD: He has a legal claim, Mister Worf. Your personal feelings toward him
WORF: It is not personal, sir. His father betrayed my people to the Romulans. Duras is a traitor.
PICARD: Klingon tradition may hold the son responsible for his father's sin. I cannot, Worf. Treason was his father's crime. Duras' crime was to lay that blame on your father. I will not forget that. But you should not forget that you chose to accept the consequences of that lie.
WORF: To preserve the Empire.
PICARD: The issue now is whether or not he killed K'mpec.
WORF: Sir?
PICARD: He was murdered. Poisoned.
WORF: A Klingon would not use poison. His murder would have no honor.
PICARD: K'mpec believed that it was either Duras or Gowron.
WORF: Well, I know little of Gowron. Only that he is an outsider who has often challenged the Council. But Duras? I know him. His heart is not Klingon.

[Worf's quarters]
ALEXANDER: What is this?
WORF: A bat'leth. It belonged to my father. It has been in our family for ten generations.
ALEXANDER: Let me hold it.
WORF: No, no, no. Do not think of it as a weapon. Make it part of your hand. Part of your arm. Make it part of you.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We've completed our analysis of the bomb debris, Commander.
DATA: The explosive was a triceron derivative.
LAFORGE: And the entire device couldn't have been more than three cubic millimeters in size.
RIKER: It could have been hidden anywhere in that room.
LAFORGE: There's one more thing. The bomb had a molecular-decay detonator.
DATA: Only one race uses that device, sir.
RIKER: The Romulans.

[Doctor's office]
CRUSHER: One of the Klingons who died in the explosion was with Duras, the other was with Gowron. I've been examining the bodies, trying to get a clue to where the bomb was hidden. There's always a pattern in the lacerations and tissue damage. It would normally give a clear indication as to the direction, distance, force of impact.
RIKER: Normally?
CRUSHER: In this case, the pattern was virtually impossible to detect. I couldn't understand it until I looked at the dynoscans. This wound is different from all of the others. It was made from the inside out. The bomb was implanted in one of their forearms.
RIKER: It's considered an honorable way for a Klingon to die, a suicide that takes an enemy with it. Which one of them was it?
CRUSHER: Duras' man.

[Corridor]
WORF: When we have more time I will take you to the holodeck and demonstrate in more detail

[Corridor]
DATA: If Lieutenant Worf resists, sir?
RIKER: He's coming back with us one way or another. Set phasers on maximum stun.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Mister Worf, your service aboard the Enterprise has been exemplary. Until now.
WORF: Sir, I have acted within the boundaries of Klingon law and tradition.
PICARD: The High Council would seem to agree. They consider the matter closed. I don't. Mister Worf, the Enterprise crew currently includes representatives from thirteen planets. They each have their individual beliefs and values and I respect them all. But they have all chosen to serve Starfleet. If anyone cannot perform his or her duty because of the demands of their society, they should resign. Do you wish to resign?
WORF: No, sir.
PICARD: I had hoped you would not throw away a promising career. I understand your loss, We all admired K'Ehleyr. A reprimand will appear on your record. Dismissed. Mister Worf, isn't it time for the truth about your father's innocence to be told? After all, you only accepted this dishonor to protect the name of Duras and hold the Empire together. Now that he has died in disgrace, what is gained by further silence?
WORF: Each member of the Klingon High Council has shared in that lie. They will not be so willing to admit their own dishonor. But the day will come when my brother and I will convince them to speak the truth.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: My parents, my human parents, will meet us at Starbase seventy three. They will care for you.
ALEXANDER: Why can't I stay with you?
WORF: You deserve a home, a family. They can provide that I cannot. I miss her too.
ALEXANDER: Are you my father?
WORF: Yes. I am your father.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: All right, Commander. You've got till your next birthday to get that right.
TROI: Some things improve with age. Maybe your trombone playing will be one of them.
CRUSHER: It's candle time, birthday boy.
TROI: So, what did you wish for, Will?
RIKER: Music lessons.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: I apologize for interrupting your celebration, but I'm going to need an away team. Could you report to the Bridge, please?

[Bridge]
DATA: Although Alpha Onias three is a class M planet, our survey teams have listed it as barren and inhospitable.
RIKER: Any life signs?
DATA: No, sir, but we have traced residual energy readings to a cavern two kilometers beneath the surface.
WORF: Romulans?
DATA: It is possible.
PICARD: I suppose you'll just have to go down there and find out.
RIKER: Geordi, Worf, you're with me.
PICARD: Number One. Happy birthday.

[Cavern]
LAFORGE: I'm detecting high levels of volcanic gasses. Sulfur dioxide, methane, hydrogen sulfide.
RIKER: Toxic?
LAFORGE: We're okay for now, but I wouldn't want to spend my vacation here.
RIKER: What about energy readings?
WORF: Magnetic clutter is increasing. I cannot make an accurate determination.
LAFORGE: Same here, Commander. I'm getting a lot of confusing readings here,
PICARD: Commander Riker, please acknowledge.
RIKER: Riker here.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We're having trouble reading you.
PICARD: And we are having similar difficulties reading you. I am advising you and your away team

[Cavern]
PICARD: to transport up at once.
LAFORGE: That's good advice, Commander. We've got a sudden build up of gasses here, especially methane.
RIKER: Transporter Room.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter room, what's happening?

[Sickbay]
OGAWA: Doctor Crusher, he's awake.
RIKER: Beverly?
CRUSHER: Will. You remember me. That's good. What else do you remember, Captain?
RIKER: Captain?
CRUSHER: Water, three Celsius. How do you feel?
RIKER: Confused.
CRUSHER: That's understandable, considering what's happened.
RIKER: What has happened? What happened to Sickbay? To you? To me?
CRUSHER: Sit down, Captain.
RIKER: Captain? I am Commander William T Riker. What is going on here?
CRUSHER: Sit. Please. What is the last thing that you remember clearly?
RIKER: Alpha Onias three. The Enterprise had been probed. Geordi, Worf, and I transported down to track the source.
CRUSHER: But all you found there was toxic gas. They barely had time to get the three of you out. Will, that happened sixteen years ago.
RIKER: That's not possible.
CRUSHER: With an Altarian virus, anything is possible. In fact, we've been expecting this.
RIKER: Could you be more specific?
CRUSHER: That day on Onias three, you were infected with a strain of Altarian encephalitis, a retrovirus that incorporates its DNA directly into the cells of its host. It can lie dormant for many years and then suddenly become active again, as it did in your case ten days ago. You have been in a coma, delirious. Your fever finally broke this morning.
RIKER: But what happened to my memory?
CRUSHER: Let me show you a scan of your brain tissue. When the encephalitis became active it caused widespread synapse degradation, interrupting the consolidation of your memory patterns.
RIKER: Doctor.
CRUSHER: Will, this virus inevitably causes memory loss back to the moment of the original infection. In your case, all the way back to Alpha Onias three.
RIKER: I don't believe this. Is this a dream?
CRUSHER: Feel my hand. It is flesh and bone. This is not a dream and you are, in fact, Captain William T. Riker in command of the Enterprise.
RIKER: The Enterprise. For how long?
CRUSHER: Nine years.
RIKER: If I have lost my memory, how do I get it back?
CRUSHER: Memories are formed by association. Smells, sounds, and images from the present could possibly trigger them.
RIKER: Like a song reminds you of an old friend.
CRUSHER: Exactly. In associational therapy, we expose the patient to familiar surroundings. This could stimulate the brain's neural synapses into regenerating.
RIKER: Then let's get started. There's nothing more familiar than the Enterprise. Maybe that'll bring back some
CRUSHER: Will, I said your memory could return. In many of these cases the damage is permanent.

[Corridor]
RIKER: What about Geordi and Worf? Were they infected too?
CRUSHER: Thankfully, no. Geordi appears to have been immune and the Klingons don't seem to be affected by the virus.
RIKER: Speaking of Klingons
CRUSHER: There've been quite a few changes on the Enterprise in the last sixteen years.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Geordi.
LAFORGE: Oh, it's good to see you up and about again, sir.
RIKER: Your eyes. What happened to your visor?
LAFORGE: My visor? I'm sorry, sir. Doctor Crusher told us that you might not remember. I haven't need a visor since I got these cloned implants, Captain.
WORF: Captain.
DATA: Welcome back, Captain. We were not expecting to see you on the Bridge so soon.
RIKER: Commander Data. You're my First Officer?
DATA: Do you remember, sir?
RIKER: Data, I haven't remembered a day for the last sixteen years.
WORF: Captain, warbird uncloaking.
DATA: On screen.
RIKER: Shields up. Red alert.
DATA: Captain, we were expecting the Decius. There is no cause for alarm.
RIKER: Cancel red alert. Clearly I need to be briefed.
WORF: Captain, the Decius is hailing us. The Admiral wishes to speak to you.
RIKER: On screen.
PICARD: Will.
RIKER: Admiral Picard. Deanna.
TROI: How are you feeling?
RIKER: I've felt better.
PICARD: Not surprising. Altarian viruses can be a nasty business.
RIKER: That's an understatement. I can't even
PICARD: We'll discuss this after we've transport over. Picard out.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Transporter room six.
CRUSHER: How are you holding up?
RIKER: I could get used to the idea of a Ferengi ensign, but Admiral Picard on a Romulan warbird? What is that all about?
CRUSHER: I think I should leave all the explanations to the Admiral.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Whenever you're ready, Chief.
PICARD: Captain Riker. it's good to see you have recovered.
RIKER: I'm not exactly sure you can call it a recovery, sir.
TROI: Then there has been some memory loss.
PICARD: How much?
CRUSHER: Everything since Alpha Onias three.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: To lose sixteen years. It's almost beyond belief.
RIKER: I have trouble believing it myself.
TROI: It's overwhelming to have so much of your life missing.
PICARD: And it couldn't have happened at a worse time. A few more days of relatively simple negotiations, and the treaty will be signed.
RIKER: What negotiations? What treaty?
PICARD: Sorry. I'll start at the beginning, which is four years ago. A Romulan battle cruiser strayed into Federation space. Its warp coils had collapsed, life support was failing.
TROI: You saved them, Will, you and the Enterprise.
PICARD: The Romulans were impressed, to say the least. After years of distrust and conflict, they started to talk. You were our key spokesman in securing the alliance with the Romulans.
RIKER: How far have these negotiations progressed?
PICARD: The preliminaries are over. All we need do now is escort the Romulan Ambassador to the final session.
TROI: Where you will complete the negotiations and sign the treaty.
RIKER: Captain. Admiral. I am in no condition to negotiate with the Romulans or with anyone else.
PICARD: Will, you're sound of mind and body. If you are properly briefed, you will still be able to fulfilll your duty.
RIKER: With a sixteen year gap in my head?
PICARD: We do need you.
RIKER: Sir, I'm not fit to resume command.
PICARD: I appreciate your candor, but despite your condition there is no one better equipped to deal with these Romulans than you.
RIKER: When do we leave?
PICARD: As soon as the Ambassador transports over from the Decius. We will get through this, as we have many times before.
RIKER: I hope so.
TROI: Let me take you to your quarters.
RIKER: Good idea. I've had enough surprises for one day.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Troi tells me you met Jean-Luc. How's my namesake holding up to all this?
RIKER: Better than I am.
TROI: We did our best to prepare him.
RIKER: I'm trying to catch up with all this. I've still got a long way to go. A long way.
PICARD: Just follow my lead with the Ambassador. You'll be fine.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Are you saying you trust Tomalak?
PICARD: I trust the process we have built with the Romulans over the past four years. They have nothing to gain by betrayal.
RIKER: Are you sure? You've always said it's a chess game with the Romulans. Move, counter move, guile and deceit.
TROI: I sense no such dishonesty in Tomalak. His desire for peace is sincere. He wants this alliance. There is no cause for concern.
RIKER: No cause for concern? We're talking about revealing the location of Outpost twenty three, the key to all of our defenses in the Neutral Zone.
PICARD: I'm sorry, Will, your information is out of date. The strategic importance of Outpost twenty three is minimal. Has been for years.
CRUSHER: Doctor Crusher to Riker. Are you there, Captain?
RIKER: What is it, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Your son has been injured. He's been taken to Sickbay. You'd better come down here right away.

[Cavern]
RIKER: It was never the Romulans. It was you all along, wasn't it?

[Bridge]
DATA: There is no question about it, sir. It is his signal.
PICARD: Picard to Commander Riker. Do you read me?
RIKER: Riker to Picard. I'm here.
PICARD: Are you all right?
RIKER: Yes, sir, I'm all right. What about

[Cavern]
RIKER: Geordi and Worf?
PICARD: We beamed them up an hour ago. They're fine.

[Bridge]
PICARD: But we lost you in mid-transport. Where've you been? What is going on down there?
RIKER: I'm not sure yet, sir.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: We're projecting that the bulk of the radiation will affect three small island groups. Fortunately, they're very sparsely populated. We'll begin replicating hyronalin now and be ready to transport it to them if it becomes necessary. Please coordinate with all the medical personnel on the planet.
TROI: Beverly? We've contacted the nearest Starbase for a search vessel. I'm afraid the closest one is almost a week away.
CRUSHER: I see. Thank you.
TROI: But we have asked the mining settlement to send any vessels they might have. You know, there are many reasons why the shuttlecraft may have been delayed.
CRUSHER: Deanna, thank you, but I'm all right. And for now, I have work to do.

[Cave]
PICARD: Cold.
WESLEY: When the sun went down, the temperature really dropped. This should help.
PICARD: Good. Thank you. I'm not much good to you, Wesley.
WESLEY: Sir, Dirgo is dead. I should've tried harder to stop him, but he. Captain! Captain Picard! Sir, stay with me.
PICARD: I'm trying.
WESLEY: Sir, do you remember when we took the shuttlecraft to Starbase five one five? I was dreading it. Six hours alone with you. But it didn't turn out the way that I thought. You opened up to me. I kind of got to know you.
PICARD: Wesley, it's my fault that you're here. I shouldn't have asked you.
WESLEY: Sir, I'm honored you wanted me along.
PICARD: I was selfish. I thought I wouldn't see you again. I'm sorry.
WESLEY: Sir, in the past three years I've lived more than most people do in a lifetime. I think I'm very lucky. no matter what happens. How many people get to serve with Jean-Luc Picard? Sir, you don't know this. No one knows this, because I never told anyone. All of the things I've worked for, school, my science projects, getting into the Academy, I've done it all because I want you to be proud of me. If there is one thing that I've learned from you, it's that you don't quit. And I'm not going to quit now. I've seen you think yourself out of worse problems than this, and I'm going to think us out of this. You're not going to die. I'm not going to let you die. I'll get to the water and I'll keep you alive until they find us. I promise. First Officer's log, supplemental. The Enterprise is returning to the last known location of the missing shuttlecraft.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Are you certain?
DATA: It is definitely debris. The primary material is duranium, with smaller proportions of sonodanite and ermanium.
LAFORGE: Most shuttlecraft hulls are made of duranium.
CRUSHER: Then they're gone.
DATA: Not necessarily, Doctor. There is far too little debris to account for an entire shuttlecraft.
RIKER: So what is it?
LAFORGE: You know, Dirgo had his maneuvering thrusters rigged a funny way. Claimed it was more efficient. If one of them blew it might have left debris like that.
RIKER: If only one of his thrusters was out, he could still have set down somewhere.
DATA: The only Class M planets in the system are Pentarus two and five, both of which have been thoroughly searched by the miners.
RIKER: Then we'll search them again.
DATA: Sir, there are also four moons in the Pentarus system that could support life.
RIKER: Have the miners searched them?
WORF: Not yet, sir.
RIKER: Which one is the closest one to the debris coordinates?
DATA: Lambda Paz, one of the moons of Pentarus three.
RIKER: Set a course, Ensign.

[Cave]
PICARD: Aupres de ma blonde, il fait bon, fait bon, fait bon. Ensign, where are we?
WESLEY: We crashed, sir. We're in a cave.
PICARD: I need water.
WESLEY: Sir, we don't have any water. Don't you remember? We tried to get to the fountain and Captain Dirgo
PICARD: Yes, I remember.
WESLEY: I think I'm on to something. I've analyzed the sentry's energy patterns.
PICARD: Wesley, I may not make it.
WESLEY: I've taken the transponder element from my communicator and I've used it to modify my tricorder.
PICARD: No, listen.
WESLEY: I think I can use it to interrupt the sentry's electrical pattern. Stop it, maybe slow it down.
PICARD: Listen to me.
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: There's so much I wanted to tell you. The Academy, there's someone, someone who meant a great deal to me. He's been there forever. Someone you must get to know. His name is Boothby. Now, you tell him that you and I were friends. Now, when I was there, he helped me. Listen to him.
WESLEY: What does he teach?
PICARD: He's the groundskeeper. One of the wisest men I ever knew. Oh, I envy you, Wesley Crusher. You're just at the beginning of the adventure. Go on. Get the water. Stay alive. They'll find you.
WESLEY: I'll be back soon.
PICARD: Of course. Wesley. You remember I was always proud of you.

[Cavern]
WESLEY: It worked!

[Cave]
WESLEY: Captain? Captain Picard? Wake up.
WESLEY: Captain?
CRUSHER: Wesley? Wesley. Wesley!
WESLEY: Mom?
CRUSHER: Yes.
WESLEY: Oh, mom.
CRUSHER: Wesley, thank God!
WESLEY: I am so happy to see you.
CRUSHER: You're okay. Come on.
WESLEY: How did you find us?
CRUSHER: We found the wreckage, and the arrow which indicated your direction. We'll take Wesley by stretcher as well.
WESLEY: No, I can walk.
PICARD: Doctor.
CRUSHER: We're taking you back to the Enterprise. We've stabilized your vital signs. All right, let's go now.
PICARD: One moment. Mister Crusher?
WESLEY: Yes, sir.
PICARD: What are you doing in such a filthy uniform?
WESLEY: You don't look so ship-shape yourself, sir.
PICARD: Wesley, you will be missed.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Checking. Looks like the field collapsed before we could enter warp.

[Troi's office]
TROI: Troi to Doctor Crusher.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Yes, Deanna?
TROI: Beverly

[Troi's office]
TROI: I'm feeling very dizzy.
CRUSHER: Did you hit your head?
TROI: I'm not sure. I'm not sure what happened.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Lie down, breathe deeply and stay calm. I'm getting calls from all over the ship. I'll be there as quickly as I can.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Everything down here seems normal enough, sir, but I suggest we take it a bit slower this time.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: There's nothing wrong down here. The engines are fine.

[Troi's office]
CRUSHER: I got here as quickly as I could. I've got a Sickbay filled with headaches. How are you?
TROI: Well, when I first called you I was feeling intense pain. Now it's gone, but I'm feeling a bit foggy.
CRUSHER: I'd like to take you to Sickbay and run an inner nuncial series. Can you walk?
RIKER: All senior staff report to the Observation Lounge.
CRUSHER: Are you up to that?
TROI: I think so.
CRUSHER: What is it?
TROI: Nothing. Nothing, I'm fine.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Could it be some sort of tractor beam?
DATA: No other ship is indicated.
PICARD: Mister Worf, what is your analysis?
WORF: Tactical sensor readings are indeterminant.
LAFORGE: They don't even give us enough for an educated guess.
RIKER: And yet all sensors are operating properly.
PICARD: Can there be an intelligence at work here? Counselor, do you sense a lifeform out there?
TROI: No, I don't think so. No. There's nothing. Nothing. I sense nothing.
PICARD: It's alright, Counselor. Perhaps there's nothing out there to sense.
DATA: Indeed, there are many races that are not empathically detectable. The Breen, the Ferengi, the
TROI: No, you don't understand. I don't sense anything. Not out there, not in here. All of you, you're all blank to me.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: No indication of a concussion or a blow to the head. Just a pattern of unresponsive neural cells throughout the cerebellum and cerebral cortex.
TROI: Unresponsive?
CRUSHER: There's brain damage. How serious, I can't tell yet.
TROI: But I feel perfectly fine otherwise.
RIKER: Can you treat it?
CRUSHER: I'm not sure. I have to review the database on Betazoid neurophysiology.
TROI: The Betazoid brain has a remarkable ability to heal itself. This condition could just reverse itself time.
CRUSHER: It might. But you are half human. That changes the map a little. I don't want to offer you any false hopes.
TROI: It's just hope, Beverly. Not false hope.
RIKER: What would cause something like this? Because it started at the same time we encountered the anomaly.
CRUSHER: There may be a connection. I don't know. If you were anyone else, you know the first thing I'd do? I'd send you to Counselor Troi.
TROI: Well, then I have an advantage, don't I? I see her quite often.
CRUSHER: Deanna, it's no different than one of us suddenly going blind.
TROI: You don't have to tell me, Beverly. I understand the psychology.
CRUSHER: You may understand it but you've never had to live with it.
TROI: I may be perfectly fine by tomorrow.
CRUSHER: And you may not. Now, I'll do my homework. I'll see what I can do to regenerate those cells. In the meantime, I want you to talk to someone. There are several people on board who have degrees in psychology, who are qualified therapists.
TROI: Okay, fine, if I need to. Right now, I just want to go back to work.
RIKER: Deanna.
TROI: If there are no medical objections?
CRUSHER: No medical objections.
TROI: Thank you, Beverly. Will.

[Troi's office]
TROI: Come in.
RIKER: I don't have a psychology degree, but if you'd like to talk?
TROI: You know what the worst part of this is? And I've seen it happen to so many patients.
RIKER: What?
TROI: The way other people change. How they start to treat you differently. They walk on eggshells around you. Sometimes they avoid you altogether. Sometimes they become overbearing, reach out a helping hand to the blind woman.
RIKER: I'm sorry if I
TROI: I will not be treated that way!
RIKER: Hey! Imzadi.
TROI: Oh, please.
RIKER: Deanna, I've never seen you quite so scared.
TROI: I'm fine. If I get better, I get better. If I don't, I'll adapt. Life goes on.
RIKER: Deanna.
TROI: I really have to finish this. I have some appointments this afternoon.

[Engineering]
DATA: Probe launch successful. Telemetry transmissions are being received.
LAFORGE: Okay, let's see what we've got. Nothing unusual here. The same reading as the ship sensors.
DATA: Expanding analysis parameters. Including Bayesian functions, broad EM and subspace spectrum polling.
LAFORGE: No change.
DATA: I am adding virtual particle trajectories.
LAFORGE: Whoa. What is that?
DATA: Unknown. I am attempting to analyze motion pattern. Results still inconclusive.
LAFORGE: Last time I saw anything that looked like that, I was skin-diving off the coral reefs at Bracas Five.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: The probe's point of view reveals that the objects exist entirely in two dimensions, on a single plane.
LAFORGE: They have length and width, but not height. Virtually flat.
DATA: That is why the ship's forward sensors did not detect them initially. We were looking at them along their edge. There was no surface to read. I will illustrate.
PICARD: Are they a lifeform?
DATA: The movement pattern within the cluster is not a naturally occurring phenomenon in the Newtonian sense. They appear to be alive.
RIKER: Can you explain why they're pulling us along with them?
LAFORGE: Somehow, they're able to polarize the graviton field as they move about. We're caught in the wake.
RIKER: How do we get out of it?
LAFORGE: Best idea for now is to try a controlled overload of the warp drive. Jump directly to warp six. The laws of a three-dimensional universe say it should work. Don't know about a two-dimensional universe though.
PICARD: Fascinating. So many questions. How can a two-dimensional entity have access to a three-dimensional universe? And are they aware of us? Number One, if we can put off the T'lli Betans, I would like to investigate this further as soon as we're free of the graviton field.
LAFORGE: It's a shame we can't tell if they're sentient.
TROI: What do you mean by that? I'm doing the best that I can.
PICARD: No one suggested otherwise, Counselor. Mister Data, try to isolate any signal patterns from the cluster. Perhaps there'll be a basis for communication. Mister La Forge, we'll attempt your warp jump as soon as you're prepared. That'll be all. Counselor

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: How are you feeling?
TROI: Beverly, I can't do my job. I'm absolutely lost. You have to do something.
CRUSHER: I cross-referenced your scan results with the baseline files in the computer. Nothing helpful has turned up. And so far the lab work is inconclusive.
TROI: Inconclusive. What does that mean?
CRUSHER: It means there is nothing I can do now. I am still trying.
TROI: How do you people live like this?
CRUSHER: We get by pretty well, actually. And so will you, in time.
TROI: You have no idea. No idea what this is like. How can you know what it's like to lose something you never had?
CRUSHER: I don't claim to.
TROI: And yet you're telling me I'm supposed to get used to it.
CRUSHER: If our positions were reversed, what would you tell me?
TROI: If our positions were reversed, I wouldn't have been in here treating skinned elbows while you were lying passed out on your office floor. I'd have been there a lot sooner. Perhaps in time to prevent this from ever happening!

[Ready room]
TROI: I've been working with Ensign Brooks since the death of her husband. She's avoided the reality of what happened, denied it to herself, and I realize I've been doing the same thing about my condition.
PICARD: That's perfectly understandable.
TROI: It's time I accept the truth, Captain, and resign as ship's counselor.
PICARD: Resign?
TROI: I can no longer fulfilll my obligations. What other option is there?
PICARD: Deanna, I've been fortunate to have access to your Betazoid abilities. Most starship captains have to be content with a human counselor. Empathic awareness is not a requirement of your position.
TROI: It is for me.
PICARD: I'm sure that after a while you'll be able to adjust. They say when one loses a sense, the other senses become stronger to compensate. A blind man develops better hearing.
TROI: With all due respect, Captain, you don't know what you're talking about. That is a common belief with no scientific basis, no doubt created by normal people who felt uncomfortable around the disabled. I am disabled, and I'm telling you I cannot perform my duties.
PICARD: There was a teacher of mine at the Academy who had been confined to a wheelchair since birth. She was a woman
TROI: Captain, spare me the inspirational anecdote and just accept my resignation.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Come in.
TROI: I really would rather be alone right now.
RIKER: Too bad.
TROI: Is this how you handle all of your personnel problems?
RIKER: Sure. You'd be surprised how far a hug goes with Geordi, or Worf.
TROI: Will, I don't know what to do.
RIKER: So you resign? You walk away from all the people who care about you?
TROI: I look around me and all I see are surfaces without depth. Colorless. Hollow. Nothing seems real.
RIKER: I'm real.
TROI: No, you're not. You're a projection, with no more substance to me than a character on the holodeck.
RIKER: I don't believe that.
TROI: You have no idea how frightening it is to just be here without sensing you, without sharing your feelings.
RIKER: That's it, isn't it? We're on equal footing now.
TROI: What?
RIKER: You always had an advantage. A little bit of control of every situation. That must have been a very safe position to be in. To be honest, I'd always thought there was something a little too aristocratic about your Betazoid heritage. As if your human side wasn't quite good enough for you.
TROI: That isn't true.
RIKER: Isn't it?
LAFORGE: La Forge to Riker.
RIKER: Go ahead, Geordi.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We are ready to attempt a controlled overload jump to warp six.

[Troi's quarters]
RIKER: Acknowledged. I'm on my way to the Bridge. I'll check in on you later.
TROI: Really, you don't have to.
RIKER: I will check in on you later.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Engines now.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Report, La Forge.
LAFORGE: The energy we wanted to transfer to the nacelles

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Was absorbed by the graviton wake instead. It set up a torsional wave that rebounded back to the ship.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We're lucky the hull is still in one piece.
PICARD: This little nuisance is beginning to lose its fascination.
DATA: Sir, during our attempt to break away, I recorded a momentary alteration of the movement pattern within the cluster.
RIKER: You think we got their attention, Data?
DATA: Perhaps, but just for an instant. The pattern immediately returned to its previous dynamic.
PICARD: Follow up on it, Mister Data. Input your observations into the Universal Translator.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Perhaps the movements themselves are an attempt at communication.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: More tea? I didn't mean to startle you.
TROI: That's alright. I'm getting used to it.
GUINAN: May I?
TROI: Sure.
GUINAN: Are you really getting used to it?
TROI: No.
GUINAN: Do you want to talk about it?
TROI: No.
GUINAN: Good. I get so tired of people coming in with their problems. They come in, they want a shoulder to cry on, and generally it turns out to be mine.
TROI: You'd make a good counselor.
GUINAN: I think so too. So I'm going to talk to Picard about it.
TROI: About what? You becoming counselor?
GUINAN: Well, yes, you're leaving. That means there won't be a counselor on board, and I suppose I'm going to have a very long line at that bar. It would be nice to have a nice office, too.
TROI: It's more than just letting them cry on your shoulder. It takes an enormous commitment.
GUINAN: I can do that.
TROI: Guinan, people come to you to talk about things they want to reveal. As ship's counselor, you have to get them to talk about things they don't want to reveal.
GUINAN: I could do that too.
TROI: What are you? You don't really want to be ship's counselor.
GUINAN: What would make you say that?
TROI: I just know you're not serious.
GUINAN: Have I given you any indication that I might not serious?
TROI: Not really, but
GUINAN: Then how do you know? Are your empathic abilities coming back?
TROI: No. I suppose it's just instinctive. I get it. You're trying to make me see that I have other abilities to draw on. Human intuition, instincts. Guinan, those skills only develop after years of experience. It's not that easy.
GUINAN: No one said it was easy. It's much harder than you think. Human intuition and instinct are not always right, but they do make life interesting.
TROI: So I'm discovering.

[Bridge]
DATA: The entities offer no indication that they are aware of the string fragment, Captain. Their course and speed remain constant.
WORF: Sir, recommend we fire a spread of photon torpedoes into their field.
PICARD: Must we destroy them to save ourselves?
DATA: It is unclear what affect a photon torpedo would have on a two-dimensional beings, sir.
PICARD: Nevertheless.
LAFORGE: Well, we wouldn't necessarily have to fire at them. Half a dozen photon torpedo bursts directly in their path could make them change course.
PICARD: Make it so.
WORF: Torpedoes armed. Fire distribution set. Detonation at seven kilometers ahead of the cluster.
RIKER: Data, launch another probe. Patch the monitor through to the main viewer.
DATA: Probe has been launched. On screen.
PICARD: Proceed, Mister Worf.
WORF: Launching photon torpedoes. Detonation in five seconds. Three, two, one.
DATA: There is no change in the graviton field. The torpedoes are having no effect, sir.
PICARD: Fire another volley directly into their field, Mister Worf.
WORF: Launching torpedoes. Detonation in five seconds. Three, two, one.
DATA: Matter-antimatter explosions appear to be ineffective, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
TROI: You wanted to see me, Captain?
PICARD: Yes, Counselor. Sit down, please. Our situation has become critical. The cluster remains completely unresponsive. We have not been able to alter its course toward the cosmic string fragment.
TROI: How much time do we have?
PICARD: Less than five hours. Which is why I have called you.
TROI: Sir?
PICARD: All that remains is the possibility of communication. There might be some way that we can warn them of their impending destruction.
TROI: I thought Data had already tried to establish communications through the universal translator.
PICARD: He has tried every technical means at our disposal to reach them.
TROI: I wish I knew how to help, Captain, but under the circumstances
PICARD: If there is a psychology to these creatures, we must discover it. If there is an explanation for their behavior, we must know what it is. Even in your current condition, you are the most qualified person aboard this ship to assist. Data is in Observation attempting to formulate a strategy. I want you to join him. Deanna, we need you.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. If our speed and course remain unchanged, in one hour the Enterprise will be torn apart by the gravitational forces of the cosmic string fragment.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: Are your signals reaching them?
DATA: Possibly. However, the beings may perceive them as negligible noise rather than an attempt at communication.
TROI: Is there any evidence at all that they're sentient?
DATA: Negative. The nature of their movement suggests a simple order of intelligence.
TROI: I'm sorry, Data. I don't seem to be much help without my empathic abilities. I just don't know how to draw on my human instinct.
DATA: As I have no human instinct per se, I cannot advise you, Counselor.
TROI: Right now, I feel as two-dimensional as our friends out there. In the universe but barely aware of it. Just trying to survive on instinct. Data, what if they're simply acting instinctively? There are inherent, inborn forces in every species. What they need, what they fear. We have to discover what drives this species.
DATA: I do not believe there is any way we can know for certain, Counselor.
TROI: We can speculate on the available evidence.
DATA: The only evidence we have at present is the brief interruption in their movement pattern during our last attempt to break away.
TROI: Which may suggest some kind of awareness of our presence.
DATA: Otherwise their course and speed have been constant.
TROI: On a straight line to the cosmic string. You're convinced the string's gravitation is pulling them in?
DATA: Because the cluster is two-dimensional, I do not have enough direct evidence to support that assumption. However, it is the most reasonable hypothesis.
TROI: Why?
DATA: It is unlikely they would intentionally move toward a destructive force.
TROI: Moths fly toward a flame. Horses sometimes run into a burning barn. Data, don't you see? We've been thinking in three dimensions. We have to get two-dimensional.
DATA: Pardon me?
TROI: Subspace signals, photon torpedoes, nothing's had an impact. It is reasonable to wonder if a gravitational pull, even as strong as a cosmic string's, would affect them.
DATA: Please continue.
TROI: What if they've chosen a course to the cosmic string? A case of pure stimulus response, driven by instinct, just like the moth to a flame.

[Bridge]
DATA: If Counselor Troi's supposition is correct, a replica of the string projected behind the cluster could induce them to reverse course, disrupting the graviton wake long enough for us to escape.
PICARD: How do you simulate a cosmic string? It has the gravitational force of a hundred stars.
DATA: I do not suggest simulating the gravitational field of the string fragment, rather the string's vibration.
RIKER: Vibration? We're not talking about a violin, Data.
LAFORGE: No, Data's right. The principle is still the same. A cosmic string emanates a characteristic set of subspace frequencies as atomic particles decay along its event horizon. I could use the ship's parabolic dish to amplify and reflect those frequencies back toward the cluster. The Enterprise itself would echo the cosmic string.
PICARD: How much time do we have, Mister Worf?
WORF: Twenty three minutes, sir.
PICARD: Make it so.
DATA: Frequency-scan detectors engaged.
LAFORGE: Receiving.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Data, we're picking up frequencies across the entire electromagnetic and lower subspace spectrum. Trying to isolate. Data, can you focus the reflector field for me?
DATA: Stand by.

[Bridge]
DATA: I am differentiating particle-emission signatures now.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Good. Good, that's doing it. Patterns are converging.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Ship's stabilizers.
LAFORGE: Stabilizers on.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Graviton-wake field collapsing.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Such overwhelming intensity of emotion. When we first encountered them, it must have been more than my senses could process.
RIKER: A short circuit.
TROI: Something like that. Oh, Beverly.
CRUSHER: Apology accepted. Therapists are always the worst patients. Except for doctors, of course. Come by and see me in my office later, okay?
TROI: I was so awful to her.
GUINAN: You were just being human.
TROI: I never fully appreciated how difficult and how rewarding it is to be human, but I had a lot of help. Thanks.
GUINAN: Now, is that counselor position is still open aboard ship?
TROI: It's been taken.
GUINAN: I just thought I'd ask. Better hours. Excuse me.
TROI: And you. Thank you for making me face my other half.
RIKER: Frightening, isn't it?
TROI: A little. You were right, though. There is something to be learned when you're not in control of every situation.
RIKER: Welcome to the human race.
TROI: By the way. The next time you call me aristocratic.

[Bridge]
DATA: In reference to your most recent letter, I agree that your study lacks sufficient primary source information on my programming and operation. Therefore, in response to your request, this correspondence will include a complete record of my activities during a normal day, with particular emphasis on my perceptions of friendship.
DATA: Commander Riker, you are fifteen minutes early.
RIKER: Well, it's a very special day. I thought the father of the bride would enjoy being relieved early on the wedding day.
DATA: Thank you, sir.
RIKER: Nervous?
DATA: I cannot become nervous, sir. However, I do sense a certain anticipation regarding my role in the wedding.
RIKER: Anything to report?
DATA: All systems normal, sir. Sickbay reports that Lieutenant Juarez went into labor at zero four hundred hours. We remain at station awaiting the arrival of Starship Zhukov and guest quarters have been prepared for Ambassador T'Pel.
RIKER: Very well. I have the Bridge.
DATA: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Begin day watch.
DATA: Initially, Commander Maddox, I found it difficult to maintain friendships, since human emotions are often puzzling to me.

[Corridor]
DATA: Eventually, I developed a program enabling me to predict human emotional responses to specific actions.

[Keiko's quarters]
KEIKO: Come in.
DATA: It is time for the wedding rehearsal.
KEIKO: I know. Data, I've decided not to go through with it.
DATA: You do not wish to rehearse?
KEIKO: No, I'm calling off the wedding.
DATA: May I ask why?
KEIKO: It's just the right thing to do.
DATA: Have your feelings for Chief O'Brien changed?
KEIKO: I'm supposed to be getting married, Data. I should be happy, but I'm not. I just feel this weight pressing down on me.
DATA: Will canceling the wedding make you happy?
KEIKO: Yes. He'll probably be just as relieved as I am. Data, you introduced us to each other. You mean a lot to both of us. I would really appreciate it if you would tell Miles for me.
DATA: If you wish.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: My friend Chief O'Brien often says that above all else, he wants to make Keiko happy. Since canceling the wedding will make her happy, I must conclude the Chief will be pleased at her decision.
DATA: I have good news.
O'BRIEN: Oh?
DATA: Keiko has made a decision designed to increase her happiness. She has canceled the wedding.
O'BRIEN: She what? Canceled the wedding? Today? Without even a word? Of all the childish, selfish, irresponsible things to do!
LAFORGE: Next time, maybe I should break the good news.
DATA: Commander Maddox, it would appear that my program designed to predict the emotional responses needs adjustment. Second Officers personal log, supplemental. This is the one thousand five hundred fiftieth day since the Enterprise was commissioned. Besides the arrival of Ambassador T'Pel, other events occurring today include four birthdays, two personnel transfers, a celebration of the Hindu Festival of Lights, two chess tournaments, one secondary school play, and four promotions. Overall, an ordinary day.

[Turbolift]
DATA: Sine I am not affected by emotional considerations, I am closer to being Vulcan than human. However, while their devotion to logic does have a certain appeal, I find their stark philosophy to be somewhat limited.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Charming woman.
DATA: The tone of Commander Riker's voice makes me suspect that he is not serious about finding Ambassador T'Pel charming. My experience suggests that in fact he may mean the exact opposite of what he says. irony is a form of expression I have not yet been able to master.

[Replicator center]
DATA: I find Lieutenant Worf to be what is called a kindred spirit. We were both orphans rescued by Starfleet officers. In many ways, we are both still outsiders in human society.
DATA: Are you here to find a wedding gift?
WORF: Yes.
DATA: I would appreciate your help in selecting an appropriate item.
WORF: Of course. I have attended human weddings before.
WORF: Hold.
DATA: This is a traditional gift?
WORF: Yes, my adoptive parents often give these things at family weddings. A human custom.
WORF: Hold.
DATA: It is my understanding that the item selected should reflect the personality of whoever is giving it. This does not remind me of you. Have you ever been an actual participant in a human wedding?
WORF: No.
DATA: You would not consider it to be an honor?
WORF: An honor, perhaps. But human bonding rituals often involve a great deal of talking and dancing and crying.
DATA: Dancing.

[Sickbay]
DATA: I am rarely in need of Doctor Beverly Crusher's professional services as my bio-mechanical maintenance program is self sufficient. But I often observe as she practices medicine on others and have learned a great deal about human interaction from her.
DATA: Doctor, may I ask a favor of you?
CRUSHER: Of course, Data.
DATA: Would you teach me how to dance?

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: What?
DATA: I would like to learn how to dance.
CRUSHER: Why me?
DATA: It was in your service record. Awarded first prize tap and jazz competition, Saint Louis Academy.
CRUSHER: Okay, okay.
DATA: Have I said something to upset you?
CRUSHER: It's just that, that was a long time ago, and I don't want to be known as the dancing doctor. Again.
DATA: Then your answer is no.
CRUSHER: All right. But let's keep this between you and me.
DATA: Of course, Doctor.
PICARD: Commander Data, please report to the Bridge.
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data, I want a tactical projection of possible future Romulan deployments along the Neutral Zone. Access all Federation records on the subject and report to my Ready Room.
DATA: Captain, is there a specific area you wish me to study?
PICARD: No. Ambassador. Number One, set a course one three zero mark two four six, warp seven.
RIKER: That will take us very close to the Neutral Zone, Captain.
PICARD: I'm aware of that, Number One. Proceed.
RIKER: Lay in the course.
DATA: It is fortunate that I am able to perform my duties without emotional distractions. If that were not the case, a sudden course correction toward the Neutral Zone would make me very nervous.
DATA: Personal Log, supplemental. Commander Maddox, there are still many dynamics of social interaction which I do not understand.

[Arboretum]
KEIKO: What?
DATA: I believe you made an incorrect analysis of the facts at hand.
KEIKO: What do you mean?
DATA: You do not seem happy.
KEIKO: Well
DATA: Your decision was based on the assumption that canceling the wedding would bring you happiness. This has proved to be incorrect.
KEIKO: Data, it's not that simple.
DATA: Since your action did not produce the desired results, the only advisable solution should be to re-examine your decision making process, and look for errors.
KEIKO: I knew what I was doing. It's my decision.
DATA: That fact is not in dispute. However, you may have acted with undue haste and in doing so, unintentionally hurt Chief O'Brien's feelings.
KEIKO: I did what I had to! Why are you doing this? I thought you were my friend.
DATA: I am your friend.
KEIKO: Then leave me alone.
DATA: If I have offended.
KEIKO: Just leave me alone.
DATA: It is clear that I need guidance to resolve this situation. Counselor Troi's advice should be useful.

[Corridor]
DATA: Commander Maddox, I have often wished for the sense that humans call intuition or instinct. Since Vulcans are incapable of lying, I must accept the Ambassador's explanation as the truth, but I would still prefer a gut feeling to back up this conclusion.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: The signal lock wasn't broken, sir. I had just entered the transfer sequence when the Ambassador's pattern began to break up. I tried to switch to emergency manual control, but the pattern deteriorated too quickly and
DATA: Captain, there is no prior record of this type of accident occurring aboard a starship. Backup systems and safeguards are designed to prevent just such an occurrence.
LAFORGE: I can't find any system flaws in the unit, Captain. The Engineering status reports were all normal. None of the backups were activated and the autosequencers were all functioning normally.
PICARD: Any prior malfunctions on this transporter unit?
O'BRIEN: No, sir. In fact, we replaced the transition coils only last week.
RIKER: Could there have been some kind of interference from the Romulans?
O'BRIEN: Nothing that I could see. Their shields were down. There was no power interruption, no subspace bias.
PICARD: I want this unit pulled and its systems checked again. I want a level one diagnostic on all transporters.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
CRUSHER: Her molecular structure dissipated instantly once the pattern was lost. There were some organic compounds left on the pad, but there wasn't enough material to do an autopsy.
PICARD: To die on a transporter. Hardly a fitting end for one of the Federation's most honored diplomats.
WORF: Bridge to Captain Picard. Admiral Mendak is hailing. He wishes to speak with you.

[Transporter room]
DATA: I have found Holmes' methodology of deductive reasoning to be quite useful. One of his adages is that once you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: I'm sorry, I don't have time to give you another lesson right now, Data.
DATA: That is not my purpose. I would like to examine the remains of Ambassador T'Pel left on the transporter pad.
CRUSHER: I'm working on the report right now.
DATA: Have you compared the genetic code with the Ambassador's last recorded transporter ID traces?
CRUSHER: No, that's not standard procedure. Why?
DATA: I could be chasing an untamed ornithoid without a cause.
CRUSHER: A wild-goose chase? All right. Computer, access the transporter ID trace for Ambassador T'Pel. All right, there's the genetic record of the Ambassador when she beamed aboard the Enterprise. Now, the breakdown of the organic material found on the transporter pad should be identical. Mitochondrial structure fits the general parameters, no change in the nucleotide bases. There's a slight diskrepancy in the base pair sequence. Chemically, these are identical. However, the organic sample from the transporter is showing numerous single-bit errors, like replicated material.
DATA: Can you postulate an explanation for the diskrepancy?
CRUSHER: I'd say the DNA was either mutated by the transporter during the rematerialization process
DATA: A supposition not supported by the transporter records.
CRUSHER: Or these aren't the remains of the Ambassador.

[Ready room]
DATA: The only abnormality found during my investigation was a temporary increase in the matter to energy signal ratio. Due to the circumstances, I decided to investigate the possibility that a second transporter signal had caused the fluctuation. Although this was highly improbable, it was the only remaining theory.
RIKER: A second transporter signal? From where?
DATA: From the Devoras.
LAFORGE: Romulan transporters operate on a similar subspace frequency to our own. With only minor adjustments, they can be made to simulate our own transporter carrier wave.
PICARD: Are you saying they beamed the Ambassador off our own pad?
DATA: While simultaneously, a small amount of genetically similar material was left in the Ambassador's place.
RIKER: To make us believe she had died as a result of the malfunction'
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, where is the Devoras now?
WORF: The ship is still in the Neutral Zone on course zero seven nine mark one two five. Speed, warp two.
RIKER: Heading for home.
DATA: The safest and most logical decision in this situation is to contact Starfleet and await further instructions. However, based on past experience, I project only a seventeen percent chance Captain Picard will choose that alternative.
PICARD: Red Alert. All hands stand to battle stations.

[Arboretum]
DATA: Keiko, I need your help. I have offended you and need to find a way to rectify my mistake. I am not sure what to do.
KEIKO: You haven't offended me.
DATA: I should not have interfered. It would be best if I apologized.
KEIKO: It would be best if you got dressed. For the wedding?
DATA: But
KEIKO: Come here. I have the most beautiful carnation for the father of the bride. Now, don't be nervous.
DATA: I am not nervous. I am confused.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Since the days of the first wooden sailing ships, all captains have enjoyed the happy privilege of joining together two people in the bonds of matrimony. And so it is my honor to unite you, Keiko Ishikawa, and you, Miles Edward O'Brien, together in matrimony
DATA: There are still many human emotions I do not fully comprehend. Anger, hatred, revenge. But I am not mystified by the desire to be loved or the need for friendship. These are things I do understand.
PICARD: Congratulations.

[Nursery ward]
DATA: I was looking for Doctor Crusher.
PICARD: Shh.
DATA: The Juarez child?
PICARD: A boy. At the same time we were facing destruction, this small miracle was taking place. Welcome aboard.

[Bridge]
WORF: All systems normal, sir. We are on course for Adelphous Four. Engineering is realigning the main deflector dish. Sickbay reports Lieutenant Umbato broke two ribs during a holodeck exercise, and sensors continue to gather long-range information on the Murasaki quasar.
DATA: Very well. I have the Bridge.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: If being human is not simply a matter of being born flesh and blood, if it is instead a way of thinking, acting and feeling, then I am hopeful that one day I will discover my own humanity.
DATA: Begin night watch.
DATA: Until then Commander Maddox, I will continue learning, changing, growing, and trying to become more than what I am.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, we are nearing the periphery of Sector twenty one five oh three.
PICARD: Be on the lookout for a Cardassian patrol ship, Mister Worf. They should be hailing us soon.
RIKER: Even with a treaty, they're still skittish about protecting their border.
PICARD: Last time I was in this sector, I was on the Stargazer, running at warp speed ahead of a Cardassian warship.
TROI: Running, Captain? You? That's hard to believe.
PICARD: Believe it. I'd been sent to make preliminary overtures to a truce. I'd lowered my shields as a gesture of good will. But the Cardassians were not impressed. They had taken out most of my weapons and damaged the impulse engines before I could regroup and run.
WORF: The Cardassians have no honor. I do not trust them.
TROI: They're our allies now, Mister Worf. We have to trust them.
WORF: Trust is earned, not given away.
PICARD: I hope their scout ship makes contact soon. It's not a good idea to stay too long on a Cardassian border without making your intentions known.

[Bridge]
PICARD: There will be three Cardassians transporting aboard. Their Captain, Gul Macet and two of his aides. My intention is to be as open as possible with them, allow them to share in our search for the Phoenix.
WORF: Sir, it is necessary to assign them a security detail.
PICARD: They're our guests, Mister Worf. I don't want them to feel like prisoners.
RIKER: I tend to agree with Mister Worf, Captain. I think we should limit their access while they're on board. They don't need to have the run of the ship.
WORF: At least allow me to post guards in some of the sensitive areas of the ship.
PICARD: Very well, let's limit their access. But you instruct your people they are guests.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Counselor, I want you to stay as close to the crew as possible. Some of them may feel uncomfortable with Cardassians on board. I don't want any incidents.
TROI: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Data, is there anyone else on board who served previously with Captain Benjamin Maxwell?
DATA: Accessing. Chief O'Brien served under his command aboard the Rutledge, sir.
PICARD: Indeed. Number One, will you and the Counselor meet our guests in Transporter room three? And inform Chief O'Brien I will be calling on him.
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[O'Brien's quarters]
O'BRIEN: There you are. Potato casserole. A dish fit for kings.
O'BRIEN: The minstrel boy to the war has gone
KEIKO: What's that you're singing?
O'BRIEN: What? Oh, it's just an old song. A bunch of us used to sing it together on the Rutledge. I hadn't thought about it in years
KEIKO: What's it about?
O'BRIEN: Oh, it's about war and glory. The minstrel boy to the war has gone. In the ranks of death you will find him. His father's sword he hath girded on. And his wild harp slung behind him. Captain Maxwell always liked that song. I guess it's all this business with him and the Cardassians brought it back to me. You know, sitting with the staff this morning, I could tell there were people in that room who still don't like the Cardassians.
KEIKO: I imagine that's to be expected.
O'BRIEN: You do?
KEIKO: Sure. The war lasted a long time. That takes its toll on people. What are these little dark things?
O'BRIEN: Capers. But the fighting is over now. Why should anyone still feel however they feel?
KEIKO: You fought the Cardassians, didn't you?
O'BRIEN: Well, there were some skirmishes, when I was with Captain Maxwell.
KEIKO: Well, how do you feel about them?
O'BRIEN: Me? I feel fine. I mean, the war's over now.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Captain.
PICARD: Chief. I wanted to talk to you.
O'BRIEN: Anything I can do, sir, you know that.
PICARD: Ben Maxwell. He must be quite a man.
O'BRIEN: He's a rare one, all right. I count myself lucky, sir. I've served with the two finest Captains in Starfleet.
PICARD: From your knowledge of the man, what has gone wrong?
O'BRIEN: There's a reason for what he's doing. Those Cardassians were up to something, I'm sure of it.
PICARD: When his family was killed, how did he take it?
O'BRIEN: I'd say he took it well. Oh, I know he was broken up inside, who wouldn't be? But you'd never know it to see him. He never missed a minute's duty, always had a smile, a joke.
PICARD: I see.
O'BRIEN: He would never retaliate out of vengeance, no matter what that Cardassian says. They're up to something, sir. They're the ones you should be investigating, not Captain Maxwell.
PICARD: You don't care for the Cardassians?
O'BRIEN: I like them fine. It's just, well, I know them. You learn to watch your back when you're around those people.
PICARD: Ben Maxwell has just sent more than six hundred of them to their deaths.
O'BRIEN: I don't know what to say, sir, but he must have had his reasons.
PICARD: I think when one has been angry for a very long time, one gets used to it. And it becomes comfortable, like old leather. And, finally, it becomes so familiar that one can't ever remember feeling any other way. Thank you, Chief.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Method acting? I'm vaguely familiar with it, but why would you choose such an old-fashioned approach?
DATA: Perhaps because the technique requires an actor to seek his own emotional awareness to understand the character he plays.
PICARD: But surely that's an impossible task for you, Data.
DATA: Sir, I have modified the Method for my own uses. Since I have no emotional awareness to create a performance, I am attempting to use performance to create emotional awareness. I believe if I can learn to duplicate the fear of Ebenezer Scrooge, I will be one step closer to truly understanding humanity.
RIKER: Captain Picard, please report to the Bridge.
PICARD: On my way, Number One. Data, the moment you decided to stop imitating other actors and create your own interpretation, you were already one step closer to understanding humanity.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
DATA: You wished to see me, sir?
PICARD: Yes, Mister Data. A wise man once said, there is a sucker born every minute.
DATA: Barnum, sir. PT.
PICARD: I've been examining the dynamics of what used to be called the con game. Quite fascinating. Worthy of your study, Data.
DATA: Sir, do you believe Ardra is, to use the vernacular, a con artist?
PICARD: Yes, I do, Data. And I believe it is our job to out-con the con artist.
DATA: Sir, I must point out that the Ventaxians did have one thousand years of peace and tranquility as promised by Ardra.
PICARD: We can only speculate what occurred on that planet a thousand years ago. Maybe a Ventaxian leader saw the destruction of his society at hand and he conceived this Contract of Ardra to motivate change. Or maybe there was an Ardra of some sort who is the basis of this mythology. Who knows? The point is that somehow a fundamental theology was created which transformed this society, but in the process of change, created this latent fear which has been passed down through generations. Data, from your own experience of performing Ebenezer Scrooge, you're aware how fear can be a very powerful motivator.
DATA: Indeed, sir. In the story, the spirits used fear to motivate Scrooge to reform his character.
PICARD: And in the hands of a con artist, fear can be used to motivate obedience, capitulation, the exploitation of innocent people. And that is what I believe has happened here. I intend to prove that. I need to find a loophole, some way of challenging the validity of this contract.
DATA: Sir, the language of the contract seems carefully chosen to avoid any loopholes.
PICARD: Check it again, Mister Data, and check every Ventaxian legal precedent for the last one thousand years. We'll talk again in the morning.
DATA: Aye, sir,

[Science station]
LAFORGE: Captain Picard? Captain, I wasn't expecting you here.
PICARD: Neither was I.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Enterprise.
WORF: Go ahead.
LAFORGE: Worf, Captain Picard is here.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: You'd better transport him back on board.
WORF: The Captain? But I have no
PICARD: It's all right, Mister Worf.

[Science station]
PICARD: Ardra somehow transported me here. Will you beam me directly to my quarters.
WORF: Aye, sir. We're locked on to you.

[Bridge]
WORF: Transporter is malfunctioning, Captain.

[Science station]
WORF: Some sort of interference. Checking.
PICARD: Just have Mister Data fetch me in a shuttle. And have him bring along a uniform.

[Bridge]
WORF: Did you say uniform?
PICARD: Yes, I did.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Shuttlecraft]
PICARD: Mister La Forge and Doctor Clark have made no headway. Commander Riker and Lieutenant Worf have picked nothing up anything on their scans.
DATA: Sir, I believe I have found an obscure precedent in Ventaxian law which may be of interest.
PICARD: Yes?
DATA: The case involves a contract dispute over services rendered by a Klingon craftsman on the construction of a Ventaxian home. Because the dispute involved an alien culture, the parties decided that arbitration rather than the courts, should resolve the issue. Both sides agreed to choose an arbiter. It is the only known case involving an alien claimant.
PICARD: That's exactly what I needed. Well done, Data.
DATA: Shuttlecraft One to Enterprise. Prepare for docking sequence
RIKER: Proceed, Shuttle One.
PICARD: Enterprise. Enterprise, do you read me? Enterprise, come in.

[Bridge]
DATA: Long range sensors detect a T-tauri type star within a pocket of the Ngame cloud.

[Hill's office]
PICARD: Well, there's nothing unusual about that.

[Bridge]
DATA: No, sir. However, the star's single planet falls within the M-class range. It is capable of supporting life.

[Hill's office]
PICARD: That is unusual.
DATA: Highly, sir.
PICARD: Well, thank you, Mister Data. Procedures require that we investigate. Recall the bridge crew and set in a course.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: I'm sorry, Gloria, but there is a twenty-fourth century mystery I have to investigate. You are very welcome to carry on, if you like.
GUINAN: No, I've had enough fun for today.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Of minor injuries. What's happened?
PICARD: The Enterprise just jumped through a wormhole.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Apparently we were all unconscious for about thirty seconds.
CRUSHER: Is everybody all right there?
PICARD: There's little or no damage on the Bridge, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Acknowledged. Crusher out.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ship's status?
RIKER: Reports coming in now. Nothing serious so far.
LAFORGE: La Forge here, Captain. I've checked impulse engines and warp drives, sir. They appear to be unaffected.
WORF: Shields and weapons systems are fully functional.
PICARD: Counselor? Are you all right?
TROI: I think so. I'm feeling a bit unfocused. It'll pass.
PICARD: Well, not too bad, all things considered.
RIKER: We're lucky we didn't end up half way across the galaxy in the middle of next week.
DATA: That was never actually a possibility. The wormhole's small size and relatively short period would make this a local phenomenon.
PICARD: There's still the anomalous M-class planet we were going to investigate. Do we go back?
DATA: The unpredictability of the wormhole would make an investigation a hazardous one. A probe launched from our current position would be more advisable.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Nothing broken, Chief, but the ligaments around the elbow have been twisted pretty severely. What on earth were you doing when you fell?
O'BRIEN: Hanging a plant for Keiko. It's part of her running project to give me a green thumb.
CRUSHER: How's it working?
O'BRIEN: Everything I touch seems to turn brown and wither away.
CRUSHER: Alyssa, would you get me? Oh, never mind, I'll get it. You, don't go away.

[Sickbay lab]
CRUSHER: This isn't possible.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Alyssa?
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Did you see anybody near the lab today?
OGAWA: No, I didn't.
CRUSHER: You didn't by chance adjust the environments on the incubation containers?
OGAWA: I would never touch one of your experiments unless you asked me to, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Of course not. I'm sorry, Alyssa. Thank you.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
CRUSHER: I have something of a minor mystery on my hands.
PICARD: A minor mystery?. That seems to be a recurring phrase these days. Oh, Diomedian scarlet moss. I didn't know you were an enthnobotanist.
CRUSHER: It's a hobby.
PICARD: You've got a good crop here. As I recall, it's not easy to cultivate.
CRUSHER: That's just it. I started these spores right before we were all knocked unconscious by the wormhole. You said we were unconscious for thirty seconds?
PICARD: Correct.
CRUSHER: Then why do these show a full day's growth?
PICARD: Perhaps you've got some sort of fast growth strain.
CRUSHER: Each of these incubators was set with spores from completely different sources in the Diomedian system. I have a dozen more in the lab. Perhaps something extraordinary happened to one of them, but not to all of them.
PICARD: Doctor, we were not unconscious for a full day. Everything on board indicates that we were out for thirty seconds. The ship's chronometer, the computer, everything, Doctor, including Commander Data.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I'm telling you this is over twenty four hours of growth.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Data continues to maintain that we were unconscious for only thirty seconds, despite Doctor Crusher's evidence to the contrary.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Captain, I have a hypothesis. The twenty-second century physicist Pell Underhill conjectured that a major disruption in time continuity could be compensated for by trillions of counter reactions. That effect may have allowed Doctor Crusher's mosses to arrive at the other side of the worm hole with the unanticipated growth.
LAFORGE: Underhill was talking about energy.
DATA: True. Nevertheless, it is possible that the phenomenon could occur in matter at much higher levels of organization, given the proper conditions.
PICARD: Thank you, Data. An intriguing hypothesis. Well, perhaps we've got a tempest in a test tube, after all.
CRUSHER: Captain.
PICARD: Data, I promised Mister Nelson that you would assist him with the sensor diagnostic. You'll find him hard at work on deck thirty six.
DATA: As you wish, Captain.
PICARD: Do you believe him? I want a frank answer, Commander.
LAFORGE: Not for a second. I'm amazed that he even proposed it.
WORF: What are you suggesting, Captain?
PICARD: I'm not sure, Mister Worf. I have never known Data to tell a lie, and yet.
CRUSHER: If we never went through that wormhole, then what happened to us during that day?
LAFORGE: If we were out for a whole day, why didn't our beards grow?
RIKER: Whatever it was it seems something Data doesn't want to tell us about.
PICARD: It could be that whatever caused this situation also affected Data. And it could be that he's telling the truth and that this is all just a minor mystery.
LAFORGE: We could always check the computer's chronometer, see if there's any evidence of tampering.
CRUSHER: A transporter trace analysis might give us another indication of how much time has actually passed.
PICARD: Doctor, Commander, make it so. Meanwhile, we will maintain our present course. If there is something wrong with Data, we don't want him to be aware of our suspicions.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Gentlemen, how goes the battle?
DATA: The long range and infra-red sensors apparently suffered ill effects as a result of the wormhole. We are presently checking neutrino and heavy particle detectors.
LAFORGE: Great. I'll take over now, Data. The Captain wants you back on the Bridge. See you later in Ten Forward?
LAFORGE: Nelson, I need your help with the computer.

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER: Hello, Chief. How's the elbow?
O'BRIEN: Much better, thanks. This isn't a house call, is it?
CRUSHER: No, it's not. Tell me, do you remember the last person to use the transporter before we went through the wormhole?
O'BRIEN: Let me check. Ensign Locklin. She's one of my technicians.
CRUSHER: Tell her to report to Sickbay immediately.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Electrolyte concentration?
OGAWA: Twelve point five deviation from previous.
CRUSHER: Interesting. Check the cellular membranes. I'm willing to bet the internal turgid pressure is off by almost the same amount.
OGAWA: Eleven three deviation from the norm.
CRUSHER: Terrific. That's what I wanted to hear. Thank you, Ensign Locklin. That'll be all for now.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Captain Picard.
PICARD: What is it, Doctor?
CRUSHER: I need to see you immediately.
PICARD: I'm on my way to Engineering. Join me.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Physiologically, each of us is on a daily cycle. Our cells have developed rhythms based on a twenty-four hour period.
PICARD: The internal clock.
CRUSHER: Exactly, and I can measure that effect at the molecular level. I took a trace from the last person to use the transporter before the incident, and compared her cell function levels at that time to what they are right now. If we were unconscious for only thirty seconds, those cycles should be nearly synchronous.
PICARD: And were they?
CRUSHER: No. We were out for longer than thirty seconds, Captain. A lot longer.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I've got some good news, and some bad news. The good news is that we were right about the computer's chronometer. There's a security program to prevent tampering, but it looks now like it was disabled and a new program put in its place. Someone has reset the clock.
PICARD: If that's the good news, what's the bad news?
LAFORGE: That Data and I are the only ones aboard this ship capable of doing it.

[Ready room]
DATA: It is a mystery, Captain.
PICARD: That is an understatement, Data. Is it possible that someone or something could have affected you without your knowing?
DATA: I am unable to answer that question, sir.
PICARD: Data, would you consent to being examined by Commander La Forge?
DATA: As you wish, Captain.
PICARD: Will you escort Commander Data to Engineering?
DATA: I know the way, sir.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. It has become clear that everyone aboard the Enterprise has lost an entire day. As the mystery of what actually occurred during those missing hours continues to deepen, so do my doubts about Commander Data.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We'll start with the higher functions before we get down to basics. Okay. All right. Now, this won't hurt a bit.
DATA: Have you forgotten, Geordi, that my sensory inputs are not programmed to experience pain?
LAFORGE: A figure of speech. Bedside manner. I'm just trying to make you feel comfortable.
DATA: I am perfectly comfortable.
LAFORGE: Pattern recognition, syntactic algorithms, heuristic functions, all normal.
DATA: I have noticed, however, that you appear a bit uncomfortable yourself.
LAFORGE: It just seems like you're not being completely honest with us. Data, I'm your friend. If there's something wrong, I want you to tell me. Maybe I can help.
DATA: I cannot tell you anything beyond what I have already stated.
LAFORGE: Okay.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Excuse us, Counselor. Captain, I finished examining Data.
PICARD: And?
LAFORGE: Nothing's wrong with the technology, that I can see. He's in perfect condition.
PICARD: I was almost hoping that you'd find a problem.
LAFORGE: He still could be malfunctioning beyond my ability to detect it.
PICARD: This entire mystery started when our sensors detected that planet. First it was class-M, now it isn't.
RIKER: But our sensors were malfunctioning. Our probe clearly established the planet could not support life.
PICARD: Data launched that probe.
RIKER: If he rigged it, could you prove it?
LAFORGE: I could try.
PICARD: What happened to us in that missing day? Surely there must be some clues. Each of us should try and think what we were doing just before we blacked out. Reenact it if you have to.
WORF: Counselor?
PICARD: Deanna, are you all right?
TROI: Just a moment. Yes. Yes, I'm fine.
RIKER: What happened?
TROI: I suddenly became dizzy. I'd think I'd better go to my quarters.
PICARD: Perhaps Sickbay would be a better idea.
TROI: No. No, really, I'm all right.
PICARD: Will you see the Counselor to her quarters?
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Corridor]
TROI: Thank you for coming with me, Mister Worf.
WORF: You are certain you are well?
TROI: I just need some rest. Thanks.
WORF: Deanna! Security! Override the lock on Counselor Troi's quarters! Now!

[Troi's quarters]
WORF: What's wrong?
TROI: The mirror. I came in here. I looked into the mirror. It wasn't me, Worf! It wasn't me! It was my face, but it wasn't me inside.
PICARD: Is she all right?
TROI: I feel fine, now.
CRUSHER: Signs of stress, adrenaline by-products higher than baseline. But that's a normal reaction after sudden fright. All brain functions check out okay.
PICARD: What happened, Deanna?
TROI: It wasn't what I saw, it was more what I felt. I looked into the mirror, and it seemed a stranger was staring back at me from behind my own eyes. As if my face was a mask.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Captain Picard.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Go ahead, Geordi.
LAFORGE: I've found something, sir.
PICARD: I'm on my way.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Lieutenant Worf.
WORF: Doctor.
CRUSHER: Can I help you?
WORF: Perhaps not.
CRUSHER: Worf, you came in here for something.
WORF: A warrior does not complain about physical discomfort, but the Captain ordered us to report anything out of the ordinary.
CRUSHER: Are you in pain? How did this happen?

[Data's quarters]
PICARD: Do you recognize this planet, Data?
DATA: Yes, sir. It is the planet our probe detected in the T-tauri system.
LAFORGE: No it's not. Actually, it's Tethys three. I retrieved this image from the ship's library. Its geophysical figures have been slightly altered, but it's definitely Tethys three.
PICARD: Strange, that an obscure planet several hundred light years from here should be picked up by the probe. Data, did you take this image from the ship's library and program the probe to send it back to us?
DATA: I cannot verify that hypothesis.
PICARD: But you don't deny it.
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, will you send another probe to the T-tauri system?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. I'm sorry, Data.
PICARD: Counselor Troi just had a very disturbing hallucination.
DATA: Is she all right, sir?
PICARD: For the moment. Can you tell me if Deanna's incident is related in any way to this missing time period?
DATA: No, sir, I cannot.
PICARD: Data, you're the key to this entire mystery and you've done nothing but block my every attempt to solve it. Why are you fighting me?
DATA: It is not by choice.
PICARD: What do you mean by that?
DATA: I cannot say.
PICARD: Would you rather endanger Deanna, a friend and a colleague, than tell me what is going on?!
DATA: Which would you place first, the welfare of a single individual or that of the entire crew?
PICARD: Are you saying that by not cooperating, you are actually protecting us?
DATA: I am not saying that at all. I merely state a possible alternative explanation.
PICARD: Then, Mister Data, I'm going to ask you again, and I order you to directly answer me. What really happened to us?
DATA: I cannot answer that.
PICARD: What would you have me do, Data? How would you handle this if our positions were reversed?
DATA: I am apparently guilty of falsifying the Enterprise's records, of interfering with an investigation, of disobeying a direct order from my commanding officer. Your duty seems clear, sir.
PICARD: Do you know what a court martial would mean? Your career in Starfleet would be finished.
DATA: I realize that, sir.
PICARD: Do you also realize that you would most likely be stripped down to your wires to find out what the hell has gone wrong?
DATA: Yes, sir. I do.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: This wrist has been broken. Broken and reset and treated with one of our subcutaneous bone fusion units.
PICARD: During the missing day?
CRUSHER: That's the only possibility.
PICARD: Are you suggesting he was conscious?
CRUSHER: I'm suggesting that maybe we all were. I certainly didn't repair a broken wrist while I was unconscious.
PICARD: And our memories of that day?
CRUSHER: Blocked, possibly erased.
PICARD: By whom?
WORF: There are very few individuals on board who could have broken my wrist. Commander Data is one of those individuals.
PICARD: I can't accept that explanation.
WORF: Well, he does possess the speed and the strength.
PICARD: Granted, but I'm beginning to suspect that Commander Data is refusing to co-operate because he believes he is acting in the best interests of the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Our probe is approaching the planet, sir.
PICARD: Acknowledged. Maybe now we'll get some answers.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Counselor Troi, what is it?
TROI: The plan has failed.
DATA: You have returned.
TROI: Your ship is again in our space.
DATA: I was unable to prevent it.
TROI: Nevertheless, you are here.
DATA: The Enterprise is not a threat to you. Give me more time. Our destruction would only
LAFORGE: Data, Captain wanted me to bring you to the Bridge. Counselor.
DATA: One moment, if you would.
DATA: Do nothing. It may yet be possible to salvage the situation.

[Bridge]
DATA: Reporting as ordered, Captain.
PICARD: Well, Data, as you can see, we're back where it all started.
DATA: We must leave immediately, sir.
PICARD: Why?
DATA: Any further delay would put us all at grave risk.
PICARD: Why? What is the source of that risk? The energy field?
DATA: I cannot say.
PICARD: Data, you sound as if you're stuck in a feedback loop. You certainly can say. You have free will, you have a choice.
DATA: My silence is not by choice, sir.
PICARD: Not by choice? Are you somehow being controlled by that force? Did Geordi miss something when he examined you?
DATA: Geordi's examination was exemplary.
PICARD: Then why are you compelled to disobey my orders? How? During the missing day, were you contacted by Starfleet? Did they order you to conceal the truth from us?
DATA: I cannot answer that. We must leave, sir.
PICARD: This ship isn't going anywhere. Not until I get an answer. Now who gave you that order?
DATA: You did, sir.
PICARD: I ordered you to lie?
WORF: Captain, the energy field is approaching.
RIKER: Maintain shields at full intensity.
DATA: No. We must vary shield shape and strength as rapidly as possible. Maximum shields will only speed the ship's takeover.
WORF: Contact imminent.
PICARD: Do as Data says. At once.
WORF: Aye, sir. The field is shifting amplitude, trying to match the shields.
DATA: The energy field will eventually penetrate our shields. There is no way to counter the Paxans' technology. We can delay their takeover but we cannot prevent it.
PICARD: The Paxans. Who are they?
TROI: You have invaded our system.
PICARD: No, Worf.
DATA: You will only harm Counselor Troi's body.
PICARD: We are not invaders. We are explorers.
TROI: Your knowledge of us is unacceptable.
DATA: They are xenophobes, sir. Isolationists. The Paxans terraformed a protoplanet in this system in order to better conceal their whereabouts. The apparent wormhole we experienced is actually a trap designed to keep out invaders. The energy field stuns everyone on board the invading vessel and places them in a state of biochemical stasis.
LAFORGE: That explains why our beards didn't grow.
DATA: The Paxans then take the ship out of their territory.
RIKER: So the crew wakes up and thinks they've been through a wormhole, count their blessings and keep going.
DATA: Precisely.
PICARD: What went wrong this time?
DATA: My positronic brain is a technology unknown to the Paxans.
TROI: Our stun field had no effect on him. He remained conscious while we tried to take over the ship.
DATA: When I realized the crew was incapacitated, I initiated emergency procedures

[Durken's office]
CRUSHER: But there's still some brain activity. I need to get him back to the ship.
PICARD: Acknowledged.
CRUSHER: And there's a Malconian male with a phaser wound in his upper chest. I need to get him back as well.
PICARD: We'll meet you on the Enterprise. Picard out.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
LAFORGE: You wanted to see me, Captain?
PICARD: Yes, Mister La Forge. It seems that the exemplary nature of your work has caught the attention of Starfleet Command. In fact, someone is coming on board just to see the engine modifications you've made.
LAFORGE: Who, Captain?
PICARD: The Senior Design Engineer of the Theoretical Propulsion Group. Doctor Leah Brahms.
LAFORGE: Leah is coming here? This is terrific.
PICARD: It is?
LAFORGE: Well, I mean, I've studied her schematics for years. She was responsible for a lot of the engine design on the Enterprise.
PICARD: Well, it should be a very enjoyable visit, then. She'll be transporting on board as soon as we reach the Starbase. Would you like to greet her on our behalf?
LAFORGE: I would love to, Captain. Thank you.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: If you keep picking at that uniform you'll wear it out.
LAFORGE: I guess I am a little nervous. It's not every day a man comes face to face with his dream.
GUINAN: What?
LAFORGE: You remember about a year ago when we were caught in that booby trap the Menthars set? Okay. While we were trying to get out of it, I went down to the holodeck to study an engine prototype that was made when the Enterprise was first designed. And the computer, well, it gave me an image of the engine but it also created this hologram of the designer. Doctor Leah Brahms.
GUINAN: So you met a computer-simulated female.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but not an ordinary computer-simulated female. I mean, she was brilliant, of course, but warm, you know? Friendly. It' was like we worked as one. I would start a sentences, she'd finish it. What I didn't think of, she did. It was just so comfortable. Okay, I know it was just a holographic image but the computer was able to incorporate personality traits from her Starfleet record.
GUINAN: You know, Geordi, everybody falls in love with a fantasy every now and then.
LAFORGE: No, no, Guinan, see, you've got it all wrong. I'm not necessarily expecting anything romantic here. It's just I know whatever, Leah Brahms and I are going to be good friends.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, I am picking up some unusual readings from the Alpha Omicron system. At this range, all I am able to diskern is that it is an asymmetrical field of intense energy.
RIKER: What type of radiation signature?
DATA: Unknown, sir. The Alpha Omicron system is yet to be charted. I recommend we take this opportunity for further research.
RIKER: Well, we're way ahead of schedule. Alter course for Alpha Omicron.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Sorry, Captain. There's too much interference to form a warp field.

[Bridge]
DATA: This new concentration of energy was detected only after the surrounding material became inert.
RIKER: Could this be some sort of tissue regeneration?
DATA: The radiation signature is similar to the original pattern, but with significant differences.
PICARD: Some kind of reaction to our phaser fire, perhaps.
DATA: I believe it is separate and self-contained within the body of the dead life form.
RIKER: Another entity.
DATA: Yes, sir. It appears to be a smaller, less developed version of the original creature.
PICARD: No wonder it attacked us. It was about to give birth.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Doctor.
CRUSHER: It's dangerous to generalize about new life forms, but based on my experience with other beings who bear their young in this manner, I'd say that the offspring is still premature. Otherwise, it would be able to break through the outer body shell of the parent.
PICARD: Will this creature be able to survive on its own without the parent?
CRUSHER: There's no way to tell. We don't have enough information about the bio-functions of the adult, much less the child.
TROI: Is there something we can do to help?
CRUSHER: If we were in Sickbay, I'd try a Cesarean section. The first priority is to free it from the body of the parent.
RIKER: We could use our phasers as a scalpel.
CRUSHER: Yes, that might work.
WORF: I advise against this, Captain. The parent proved to be a threat to the ship. We do not know how the offspring will react.
PICARD: Your objection is noted, Mister Worf, but we are directly responsible for the death of the parent. We cannot simply wash our hands of it now. Doctor, we will proceed at your diskretion.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Set phaser power to three percent, narrow beam.
WORF: Three percent.
CRUSHER: All right, here we go.
DATA: The first incision is complete.
CRUSHER: Ideally the offspring should now be able to push through the outer shell of the parent by itself.
RIKER: I think it needs a little more help.
CRUSHER: We've done all we can. I don't want to risk hitting the offspring by accident.
TROI: Come on. You can do it.
CRUSHER: Captain, I'd like to announce the birth of a large baby something.
PICARD: Well done, Doctor. Well done.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: How could it have been so far off? It was based on every piece of information on record about Leah Brahms. Okay, with an admitted margin for error. but this is an error that's a light year wide.
GUINAN: Not what you hoped for, huh?
LAFORGE: Hoped? Guinan, the woman is about as friendly as a Circassian plague cat, only cares about her work, hates what I've done to her engines, and to top it off she's married. Computer never even told me she was married.
GUINAN: Computer glitch?
LAFORGE: Must have been.
GUINAN: Maybe it was your old visor.
LAFORGE: What are you talking about?
GUINAN: The one you wore when you were on the holodeck with her.
LAFORGE: Guinan, it's the same visor.
GUINAN: Really? Oh, I figured it was probably the one that lets you see what you want to see.
LAFORGE: What's that supposed to mean?
GUINAN: You saw exactly what you wanted to see in the holodeck. Sure, the computer made it look like her, gave it personality, but when it came to the relationship. La Forge, you filled in the blanks. And you had a perfectly wonderful, marvelous little fantasy. until the real Leah showed up and ruined it. She's probably done the most horrific thing one person can do to another, not live up to your expectations. So I'd take a good, hard, long look at her, La Forge. See her for who she is, not for what you want her to be.

[Shuttlebay control booth]
LAFORGE: I am deactivating the atmospheric force field now.

[Shuttlebay control booth]
LAFORGE: The bay's been completely depressurized, but it's still hanging on.

[Bridge]
DATA: I am detecting other radio transmissions, Captain.
WORF: Sensors detect movement within the asteroid field. Bearing two five seven mark one six one.
PICARD: On screen. Magnify.
DATA: At their current speed, sir, the entities will intercept us in ten minutes, thirty one seconds.
RIKER: Weapons status?
WORF: Auxiliary power only. Two seconds phaser fire available.

[Bridge]
WORF: Two minutes until the creatures intercept, Captain.
LAFORGE: Captain, we're ready down here.
PICARD: Proceed.

[Bridge]
DATA: Negative. I detect no reduction in the life form's rate of energy consumption.
WORF: One minute thirty seconds to intercept.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I guess it noticed what we're doing.

[Bridge]
DATA: The lifeform is emitting its high frequency transmission. Energy consumption is rising, sir.
WORF: Captain, the creatures are accelerating their approach. They are changing color.
PICARD: Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Captain.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Just a little more time. Leah, nudge it down even further, toward point oh two.

[Bridge]
PICARD: On screen. Magnify.
RIKER: That's the Brittain, all right.
DATA: The ship is intact, sir, with no indication of structural damage.
RIKER: Engines?
DATA: All propulsion systems are shut down. The ship is drifting, sir.
PICARD: Life form readings?
DATA: Inconclusive.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: There is life on board, but
PICARD: What is it?
TROI: I don't know. Something
PICARD: Number One, assemble your team.
RIKER: Doctor Crusher, report to Transporter room three. Worf. Data.
TROI: Commander, I need to come too.

[Brittain Bridge]
DATA: There is no malfunction in any of the main systems, sir.
WORF: Commander. Here's another one. This was done by a phaser on a setting of six or seven.
RIKER: And more over here.
CRUSHER: The entire Bridge crew.
RIKER: Whoever did this could still be on the ship.
TROI: There is someone alive, but he didn't kill these people. Here.
TROI: I think he's Betazoid. It's all right. We're going to help you. Who did this? Who did this to you?

[Brittain Bridge]
LAFORGE: All the engines check out perfectly, Commander. Once we get them started, the Brittain can get back to Starbase under her own power.
RIKER: Let's give it a try.
LAFORGE: Pre-heating injectors. Data, fuel flow?
DATA: Matter valves are open and operating. Magnetic containment of antimatter pods is constant.
LAFORGE: Okay, open injectors.
DATA: Injectors open. There is no engine activity at all, sir.
RIKER: What's wrong?
LAFORGE: Nothing's wrong. I don't understand it.

[O'Brien's quarters]
KEIKO: Boy, what a day this was. I'm doing an isozyme study on some populations of Cardilia but they're turning out to have these really weird polymorphisms. What a headache!
O'BRIEN: Is that why you're late?
KEIKO: Oh, no, I had a conference with Doctor Balthus. She wants to do a study on the laticifer ontogeny of the Kaladian Thorn Flower, but I don't have time to oversee another project.
O'BRIEN: Was Tom Corbin there?
KEIKO: What?
O'BRIEN: Tom Corbin from the science lab. Remember him?
KEIKO: Of course I remember him, but
O'BRIEN: You use any excuse you can to pay him a visit.
KEIKO: Miles, what are you saying?
O'BRIEN: I think you know exactly what I'm saying.
KEIKO: If I didn't know better, I'd say you were jealous.
O'BRIEN: Do you take me for a fool?

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Yes, yes.
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: Captain, do you have a moment?
TROI: We're concerned. We're afraid whatever happened on the Brittain may be starting here.
PICARD: Explain.
TROI: Well, Beverly and I have been getting unusual reports. People behaving strangely, others hearing sounds that aren't there.
PICARD: Are we talking about hallucinations?
CRUSHER: In some cases. In others just erratic behavior.
TROI: We can't track down any element that might be responsible.
PICARD: But everything started when we found the Brittain?
CRUSHER: Yes. Captain, we have to get the Enterprise away from here before it gets any worse.
PICARD: We're preparing to take the Brittain in tow. We'll be on our way within the hour.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We don't have warp drive either.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: After analyzing the sensor logs of the Brittain and the Enterprise, as well as the data from the last series of probes, I conclude that we have become trapped in a massive rupture in space, into which energy is absorbed.
PICARD: You mean a Tyken's rift.
CRUSHER: A what?
DATA: A rare anomaly named after Bela Tyken, the Melthusian captain who first encountered it.
LAFORGE: Tyken's rift. That would explain why we don't have engine power.
DATA: The ship's energy is being drained into the fissure before we can utilize it.
WORF: I was detained.
DATA: When Tyken was trapped in the rift, his analysis determined that a massive energy release might overload and dislocate the anomaly. Fortunately, his cargo included anicium and yurium, which he used to detonate the explosion. He then escaped through the ruptured center of the rift.
LAFORGE: But we aren't carrying anything that could produce that kind of explosion. Not even our photon torpedoes would be enough.
RIKER: Couldn't we replicate the elements that Tyken used?
DATA: No, sir. We no longer have the power to reproduce complex elements in the replicator. We must find a way to generate a violent energy release without using conventional means.
CRUSHER: Data, in Tyken's experience did the crew exhibit behavioral changes?
DATA: No. There were no reports of unusual conduct among the crew.
TROI: What about nightmares?
DATA: There were no records of sleep disturbances of any kind, Counselor.
CRUSHER: Then, what is it? What's happening to us?

[Corridor]
RIKER: The only one who doesn't seem affected by all this is Data.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Bridge.
PICARD: Number One, how?
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: Any hallucinations, nightmares?
RIKER: No. I'd be a liar if I said I felt like myself. I've had to bite my tongue to keep from snapping at people. A couple of times, I've gone to my quarters and felt as if there was someone in there, waiting for me.
PICARD: I've had similar feelings. With everyone succumbing it's even more important that one of us attempt to keep control of his faculties. I want you to turn in, take a nap. I'll be on the Bridge. You can relieve me in four hours.
RIKER: Yes, sir. Deck eight.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: No!
WORF: Sir?

[Bridge]
PICARD: As you were. Mister Data, will you join me in my Ready room.

[Ready room]
DATA: Commander La Forge and I have come up with a potential solution to our predicament. Perhaps the modifications used to increase firepower against the Borg could be effective here.
PICARD: Channeling power to the main, er, deflector dish.
DATA: Yes, sir. I believe that within six hours we could generate a concentrated burst of energy which might disrupt the Tyken's rift.
PICARD: Very well. Proceed. Mister Data?
DATA: Yes, sir?
PICARD: It appears that I am not immune to the strange forces that are at work on this ship.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: It's a terrifying prospect to lose control of one's mind. When I was young, I remember watching my grandfather deteriorate from a powerful, intelligent figure to a frail wisp of a man, who could barely make his own way home. Mister Data, it is my responsibility somehow to see that this ship is guided to safety. I will need to rely on you from now on. We may need to count on you for our very survival.
DATA: I will do my best, sir.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: Captain, let me ask you this. Since we located the Brittain, can you remember any of your dreams?
PICARD: I hardly ever recall dreams.
CRUSHER: Most people don't, but think. Have you even had a dream in the last ten days?
PICARD: I don't recall.
CRUSHER: I'm willing to bet you haven't. What's more, neither has anyone else on board this ship, except for Troi. I began to realize that when she talked about having nightmares. I've done some additional brain tissue tests on, er, bodies, some of the bodies from the, er, the.
DATA: The Brittain, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Right. And I've also done some scans on a random cross-section from our crew. They both have the same results, a unique chemical imbalance.
PICARD: Caused by?
CRUSHER: Dream deprivation. Every night when we enter into sleep.
DATA: I believe the Doctor means is that humans enter what is known as REM sleep. Rapid eye movement. It is the level of brain wave activity at which one dreams.
CRUSHER: We have to dream in order to survive. If we don't reach REM sleep, we don't dream, we begin to lose our cognitive abilities, we find it hard to concentrate. We forget how to do the most ordinary task. Then we become irritable, paranoid. Some people experience hallucinations.
PICARD: You're describing the situation on this ship. But Counselor Troi reported nightmares.
CRUSHER: Maybe it's because she's Betazoid. I don't know why. All I know is there's more going on here than being caught in a Tyken's rift, and I don't know how or why it's happening. But I do know this. There is an inevitable conclusion to this pattern, and if I can't find a way to stop it, we will all go insane.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Okay, all the power has been channeled to the, er, the
DATA: The main deflector dish.
LAFORGE: Yes. Right. The deflector dish. So, what do we do now?
DATA: Data to Bridge. Mister Worf, activate the deflector.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: Deflector power banks approaching maximum. Discharge in fifteen seconds.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Data, this detonation better work. We're not going to last much longer.

[Bridge]
WORF: Discharge in three seconds, two, one.
RIKER: Nothing. It just fizzled out.
DATA: Captain, it appears the energy output

[Engineering]
DATA: Has been absorbed into the rift.
PICARD: Data, can we try again?
DATA: No, sir. If we draw

[Bridge]
DATA: More power, we risk losing life support systems.
PICARD: Understood. Keep me appraised, Commander.

[Ready room]
TROI: REM sleep occurs at a different frequency for Betazoids than other humanoids. I believe the beings are using that frequency to communicate telepathically.
DATA: It is possible that this telepathic communication is creating interference in the REM sleep of other species. That would explain why the rest of our crew is not dreaming.
PICARD: Counselor, what are these beings trying to tell us?
TROI: They're calling for help. I think they're trapped just like we are. Eyes in the dark could mean this twin star system.
DATA: Your hypothesis is certainly plausible. There may be another ship on the other side of the fissure, where we cannot detect it.
CRUSHER: Is there a way we could block their signals?
DATA: There is no technology to block telepathic transmissions, Doctor.
TROI: Maybe communication through dreams can work both ways. I could try to get them to stop.
DATA: Perhaps we can accomplish more than that. If there is another ship, and we can reach them, we might be able to coordinate our efforts to free ourselves.
TROI: It is conceivable. When working with patients with debilitating nightmares, I've often used a therapeutic treatment called directed dreaming. Dreamers can learn to control of their dreams, retain a conscious memory even while in REM sleep. I could remember a short message and deliver it to them.
PICARD: If it were possible, what would you say?

[Bridge]
DATA: Working together with the aliens, we must discover a means by which we an produce an explosion more intense than either one of us could achieve alone.
TROI: What is it you're looking for?
DATA: These are the elements we have available. Some of them could be used in the creation of an explosive reaction. If we could communicate this inventory to the other ship, perhaps they would be able to
TROI: No, Data, no. This is too complex. This has to be a simple, clear message.
DATA: I am uncertain if a simple transmission will be adequate.
TROI: Stop. Go back. Further back. There. Stop. One moon circles.
DATA: Yes, Counselor. One electron circles one proton. This is a hydrogen atom.
TROI: One moon circles. That's what they've been telling me over and over.
DATA: Perhaps the aliens are thinking as we are, to collaborate in producing an explosion. If hydrogen is combined with another element, calendenium for example, it is extremely volatile. But would the message mean they have hydrogen or they want hydrogen?
TROI: Well, if it's a distress call, I think they'd be asking for what they need, not what they already have.
DATA: Then the proper course of action would be to release hydrogen into the rift, and hope that they have a substance that will detonate it.
TROI: How do I tell them what to do?
DATA: If you are correct, Counselor, I believe they have already told us what to do and are waiting for us to do it. When we are ready, the only message you should attempt to convey is, now.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I can help keep you in REM sleep for a while with this cortical scanner. It will maintain electrical activity in your brain at the proper frequency.
DATA: Counselor

[Bridge]
DATA: You will have to communicate with the other ship within two minutes of entering REM sleep.
TROI: Two minutes.

[Sickbay]
TROI: Is that all, Data?
DATA: Unfortunately, yes.

[Bridge]
DATA: We have only enough power to emit a hydrogen stream for that amount of time. They must understand that they will have to detonate it immediately. Captain, we are ready to implement the plan.
PICARD: Proceed.
DATA: We will have to draw power from the life-support systems in order to discharge the collectors. This is Acting Captain Data. All personnel will report to designated shelter areas

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: PGO signals steady. Visual cortex showing increased activity. Rapid eye movements commencing. Crusher to Bridge.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: She's in REM sleep.
DATA: Thank you, Doctor. Activating Bussard collectors.

[Nightmare]
TROI: Where are you?

[Bridge]
DATA: Ninety seconds remaining.

[Bridge]
DATA: Forty five seconds remaining.

[Bridge]
DATA: Thirty seconds remaining.

[Bridge]
DATA: Ten seconds remaining.
PICARD: Nothing. No explosion.
DATA: The Counselor was unsuccessful.
PICARD: Activate impulse engines.
DATA: Engines activated, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: We have cleared the rift, sir. Warp engines are coming back online.
PICARD: Set a course to.
DATA: Setting a course for Starbase two twenty. Sir, as my final duty as Acting Captain, I order you to bed. I shall do the same for all personnel.
PICARD: Very well, Mister Data. And Mister Data, thank you.
DATA: Pleasant dreams, sir.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: The parameters are pretty broad, Data. Any match we make is going to be inconclusive at best.
DATA: I am aware of that, Doctor. However, I can see no other reasonable course of investigation available to us. And we may not have much time.
CRUSHER: You're worried about Geordi, aren't you?
DATA: I am an android. It is not possible
CRUSHER: for you to feel anxiety.
DATA: Starfleet personnel have vanished. Others may be at risk. We must do the best we can to find out why. However, I am strongly motivated to solve this mystery.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: This is one of Susanna's altered skin cells, and this is one of the alien cells Data found.
PICARD: They're almost identical. How do you explain that?
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I think the people from Tarchannen Three who disappeared weren't abducted. I think they were transformed into another species.
LAFORGE: Can you stop it, Doctor?
CRUSHER: The T-cell stimulator will slow the rate of change, but until I find the cause.
PICARD: Is the Enterprise at risk?
CRUSHER: No. I checked the cell wall integrity. It's viability is extremely low. I don't think it's possible for Susanna to transmit it.
LAFORGE: Then how did she get it?
CRUSHER: I wish I knew. The only thing I do know, Geordi, is that it's very possible that you'll be next.
LAFORGE: But I had two full bioscans today. You said I was fine.
CRUSHER: I gave Susanna a bioscan, too. I didn't find anything wrong with her, either.
LAFORGE: How long?
CRUSHER: Brevelle was sick for days before he left. Mendez was normal an hour before she disappeared. You may have weeks or very few hours.
LAFORGE: Then there's not much time to waste. I should get back to work.
CRUSHER: Geordi, until I know what we're dealing with, I think you should stay here, in Sickbay.
LAFORGE: Doctor, you said it would help if you knew the source of this. If I can continue my analysis of the mission records, I might find an answer.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, what if you begin to change? What if you feel compelled to go down to the planet like the others?
LAFORGE: Program the computer to monitor my movements. That way we can be sure that I don't leave the ship. What would you do, Captain? Would you sit it out here in Sickbay or try to learn what it is that's got you and maybe stop it?
PICARD: Very well, Mister La Forge. You proceed with your investigation, but I want you to report to Doctor Crusher for a bioscan at the start of day watch.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
CRUSHER: And Geordi, if you have symptoms of any kind, I want to know immediately.
LAFORGE: Understood.

[Sickbay]
OGAWA: Sorry to disturb you, Doctor.
CRUSHER: That's all right. What's happened?
OGAWA: I thought you should see this.
CRUSHER: Her skin is simulating light. A radiant reaction. Some sort of mimetic ability?
OGAWA: That's not all. Her body temperature is dropping.
CRUSHER: It's as if she's generating a disruptive field. I can barely get any readings off her now. What's her rate of transformation?
OGAWA: It's increasing.
CRUSHER: That's not possible. It should have been inhibited by the T-cell stimulator. Unless. If there's a foreign body inside her that's producing these changes, something like a viral crche.
OGAWA: A very small one if our scans haven't found it.
CRUSHER: I want a full genetic analysis. We're going to examine any abnormality we find no matter how insignificant it seems.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: There, in the thymus. Some sort of parasite. It's using Susanna's immune system to spread genetic instructions.
OGAWA: How did it get there?
CRUSHER: She could have become infected during the original mission. It's small enough to have entered through any of the mucous membranes. But it certainly isn't behaving like a typical parasite. It isn't feeding off of her. It's transforming her DNA to match its own.
OGAWA: There's not much of her original DNA left.
CRUSHER: And we're going to need unaltered genes or we'll never get her back. We've got to get that thing out of her now.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Any luck?
DATA: Negative, Commander. Nothing in our survey suggests the source of a parasitic infection.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Bridge.
PICARD: Go ahead, Doctor.
CRUSHER: The surgery was successful

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: The skin develops mimetic capabilities. He may still be on board, but undetectable to our sensors.

[Holodeck - Tarchannen]
WORF: You search the structure. I will take the perimeter.
WORF: Commander.
RIKER: Geordi's uniform.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, the security lockout on Transporter room six has been broken.
PICARD: Re-engage now.
DATA: I cannot, sir. The transporter cycle has already begun.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 44668.1. Doctor Crusher's research indicates that we have less than an hour before Commander La Forge's transformation becomes irreversible. However, all attempts to locate him on the surface have failed.

[Bridge]
WORF: I do not read any life signs on the surface.
PICARD: Our sensor array is useless. We must find some other way of locating him.
DATA: Captain, if we can get close enough to Geordi, we can read his absorption spectrum with an ultraviolet light.
RIKER: Can you modify an emergency beacon to operate on UV?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Make it so. Number One, as soon as Data is ready, I want you to lead an away team.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Ship's theater]
CRUSHER: You were like a brother to me. Do you remember? We used played in the park near the lake.
BARCLAY: Yes, of course. Every summer, you came to Bergerac.
CRUSHER: You used to make swords out of the reeds, and when you cut your hand you would come running to me, and I would say, Let me see. Oh! How did you do that?
BARCLAY: Playing near the Porte de Nesle.
CRUSHER: And how many did you plat against?
BARCLAY: No more than a hundred.
CRUSHER: Tell me!
BARCLAY: No.
CRUSHER: Let it go.
BARCLAY: What?
CRUSHER: Let it go.
BARCLAY: Let it go. Let it go. You tell me what you were going to say. Do you dare?
CRUSHER: I do dare. I love someone.
BARCLAY: Ah!
CRUSHER: He does not know.
BARCLAY: Ah!
CRUSHER: Not yet. But he is proud, noble, brave and beautiful.
BARCLAY: Beautiful?
CRUSHER: What's the matter?
BARCLAY: With me? Nothing. It is my hand. He is in the Guards?
CRUSHER: Since this morning. Baron Christien de Neuvillette. In your own regiment.
BARCLAY: Ah.
CRUSHER: Promise me. Promise me to be his friend.
BARCLAY: I promise.
CRUSHER: Oh, I love you. I must go now. Oh, and tell him to write me. A hundred men! What courage!
BARCLAY: Oh, but I have done better since.
RIKER: Bravo!
TROI: Wonderful! Wonderful.
DATA: Lieutenant Barclay's performance was adequate, but clearly not rooted in The Method approach. I do not understand why.
RIKER: Data, because it's polite.
LAFORGE: Good job, Reg. And only what, six weeks of lessons.
CRUSHER: Good job, period.
BARCLAY: We have a patient teacher.
CRUSHER: Ah, Worf, I have an opening in my workshop.
TROI: Well done.
BARCLAY: Thank you, Counselor.
TROI: You've come a long way, Reg.
BARCLAY: After more rehearsals than I can count.
TROI: I don't just mean your acting ability. It takes a great deal of courage to put yourself on display like that.
BARCLAY: You think so?
TROI: There was a time when nothing could have dragged you onto a stage in front of an audience. You've made tremendous progress.
BARCLAY: I, I guess.
TROI: Don't you think so?
BARCLAY: Well, I just feel more more comfortable playing somebody else. Maybe all this is not any better than escaping into a holodeck fantasy.
TROI: I disagree. This isn't fantasy, it's theater. You used to withdraw onto the holodeck. You isolated yourself inside your own imagination, avoiding contact with real people. Look at yourself now. Look at all the other people you're with. You're not just acting, you're interacting. Give yourself some credit, Mister Barclay.
BARCLAY: Maybe you're right.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 44704.2. We have arrived at the Argus Array, a remote subspace telescope at the very edge of Federation space. The unmanned structure mysteriously stopped relaying its data nearly two months ago.

[Bridge]
DATA: The fusion reactors that power the array are extremely unstable. There is a high risk of overload.
RIKER: What about the computer systems?
DATA: They do not seem to be functioning at all, sir.
WORF: Captain, I am picking up an unidentified device one point eight kilometers from the array.
PICARD: On screen. Magnify.
RIKER: That's some kind of probe. I'll bet that's what damaged the array.
PICARD: Is it emitting any signals, Lieutenant?
WORF: Negative, sir. I show no activity.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, why not go out and take a closer look.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Lieutenant Barclay, report to the main shuttlebay.

[Shuttle]
LAFORGE: Enterprise, this is shuttle five in position, ready to begin a short-range scan.
RIKER: Proceed, shuttle five.
LAFORGE: Reg, why don't we begin with the passive high-res series, all right?
BARCLAY: Electromagnetic band?
LAFORGE: Give it a try.
BARCLAY: I'm picking up visual wavelengths only. Between forty five hundred and seven thousand angstroms.
LAFORGE: Let's try the neutron densitometer.
BARCLAY: Nothing.
LAFORGE: Hmm. Doesn't seem to want to give up any secrets. Let's go to active scan.
BARCLAY: No, no modulation.
LAFORGE: Really? You are definitely not from our neighborhood. Increase to three point zero.
BARCLAY: Commander?
LAFORGE: Yeah, Reg?
BARCLAY: Thanks for assigning me to this mission.
LAFORGE: Don't mention it. You're one of my top engineers. It's about time you got in on some of the interesting stuff. This, this is why I'm in Starfleet.
BARCLAY: There's still no modulation.
LAFORGE: Hit it with a positron emission.
LAFORGE: What was that? Computer's down, Reg. Reg?
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. An intense energy surge from the alien probe has severely disabled the shuttle's onboard computer. The away team has been transported directly to Sickbay, where Lieutenant Barclay remains under observation.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Any indication of the probe's energy source, Data?
DATA: No, sir. Power emissions do not match any known radiation patterns. We have not encountered this technology before, sir.
PICARD: Very well. Isolate the probe and place it in tow. We'll take it to Science Station four oh two in the Kohlan system.
WORF: Captain, the probe has begun to move. It is approaching the Enterprise.
RIKER: Shields up.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: There was enough energy in that flash to overload your optic nerves. It knocked you unconscious.
LAFORGE: My visor must have filtered it out.
CRUSHER: Exactly. But there was no apparent retinal damage and the cornea looks fine. But I'm still waiting for a full sero-amino readout. I'll call you when it comes in. I'd like this done as quickly as possible, Ensign.
BARCLAY: You shouldn't have to wait too long for the results.
CRUSHER: What do you mean?
BARCLAY: Couldn't you use a global mode in your scanner? It would be a lot faster.
CRUSHER: That's not possible. We're talking about human cells here, not isolinear circuits. I think you'd better stick to engineering, Lieutenant.
BARCLAY: A cell has a an electromagnetic signature just like a circuit element does. Theoretically, it should work with just a few adjustments. I could set it up for you, if you'd like.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Attempting to now, Commander. Isolate phasers eighty to one twenty. Shunt all the plasma
BARCLAY: To the emitters. Yes, sir, I'm already on it. Ready.
LAFORGE: Phasers are as hot as we can make them, Captain.

[Bridge]
BARCLAY: Maximum yield, full spread.
RIKER: We're too close.
BARCLAY: I'm certain the shields will hold.
PICARD: Mister La Forge?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I don't know how he did it, but shield strength has been increased by three hundred percent.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: It should be enough, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Worf. Photon torpedoes. Maximum yield, full spread.
WORF: Aye.
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Barclay.

[Engineering]
BARCLAY: You're welcome, Captain. Barclay out. I'm sorry if I overstepped my authority.
LAFORGE: Don't mention it.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 44705.3. The Enterprise has destroyed the alien probe, but now we are left with the difficult task of repairing the Argus Telescope. Failure to do so would represent an incalculable scientific loss.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Mister Barclay. Everyone's still trying to figure out exactly how you did it.
BARCLAY: Well, it just occurred to me that I could set up a frequency harmonic between the deflector and the shield grid using the warp field generator as a power flow anti-attenuator, and that of course naturally created an amplification of the inherent energy output.
RIKER: Uh huh. I see that.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: I'm glad you could join us, Mister Barclay. Your report, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Each of the telescope's subspace antenna clusters is powered by its own fusion reactor, but a single computer controls them all.
RIKER: So all eighteen reactors were affected when the computer was damaged?
LAFORGE: That's right. They're starting to overload, and could eventually go critical. The explosion would destroy the Array, and I wouldn't want to be next door when that happens.
DATA: A standard isolation procedure would be advisable.
LAFORGE: I agree. We'll cut off each reactor from the damaged control system and repair them one by one.
RIKER: How long will that take?
LAFORGE: Two to three weeks at least.
PICARD: All right, Mister La Forge.
BARCLAY: I don't agree. We could repair all of the reactors simultaneously instead of one by one.
PICARD: Simultaneously? All eighteen?
BARCLAY: Yes, sir.
LAFORGE: But the Argus computer is inoperable.
BARCLAY: Not entirely. The core memory is still intact, and we could program a completely new control system.
DATA: An interesting suggestion, Lieutenant. However, that approach would require much more time than our original plan. At least seven weeks.
BARCLAY: I could have it ready for you in two days.
RIKER: What?
BARCLAY: If you could assist me in the morning, Commander.
LAFORGE: Sure, Reg.

[Ship's theater]
BARCLAY: The moon, yes, that'll be my home, my paradise. I shall find there all the souls I love. Socrates, Galileo. And when I arrive they will question my worthiness. What the devil is he doing there among us? Philosopher, scientist, poet, musician, duellist! Here lies Hercule Savinien De Cyrano de Bergerac. I would not have you weep any less for that charming, good, and handsome Christien. I only ask this, that as the great cold surrounds my bones, you allow a double meaning for your mourning veil. And when you let fall your tears fall for him, some few will be for me.
CRUSHER: That was a real improvement.
BARCLAY: Same time, day after tomorrow?
CRUSHER: Same time.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Reg? May I join you?
BARCLAY: Of course, please. Sit down, Counselor.
TROI: Hard at work?
BARCLAY: I'm getting prepared for tomorrow's meeting in Engineering. We're planning our repair strategy.
TROI: I really enjoyed the scene you just performed.
BARCLAY: You're a very forgiving audience.
TROI: Not at all. I thought you were brilliant. You've changed.
BARCLAY: Is that a professional opinion?
TROI: Pure observation.
BARCLAY: No, it's true. I can't explain it. In the last few days I've found confidence I never knew was there.
TROI: I'm proud of you, Reg. I'm glad for you, too. Well, I'd better be going.
BARCLAY: Must you?
TROI: I think so.
BARCLAY: Wouldn't you like to take a walk with me through the arboretum? The zalnias should be in bloom.
TROI: Reg, as your former counselor, I don't think it would be appropriate.
BARCLAY: I don't need a counselor. What I need is the company of a charming, intelligent woman.
TROI: Goodnight, Mister Barclay.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: What was that all about?
BARCLAY: I had some ideas late last night. I needed to consult with the computer about some quantum electrodynamic calculations. A holodeck Einstein program seemed like the best way. I guess I went a little overboard.
LAFORGE: A little? Most of the stuff on that blackboard was way out of my league. And yours too.
BARCLAY: Not really. I just haven't thought along those lines before. It's all pretty evident now, and if you were to put your mind to it I'm sure
LAFORGE: Reg, ever since our run in with that probe, something's different about you.
BARCLAY: What, because I'm beginning to behave like the rest of the crew? With confidence in what I'm doing?
LAFORGE: You just spent the entire night arguing grand unification theories with Albert Einstein!
BARCLAY: Yes, but
LAFORGE: Reg, something's happened to you, and we can't ignore that.
BARCLAY: Yes. I've finally become the person I've always wanted to be. Do we have to ask why?
LAFORGE: Yeah, I think we do.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Incredible! The production of neurotransmitters in your brain has jumped by over five hundred percent. Pre and postsynaptic membranes have increased permeability to match it. I couldn't even guess at your IQ level now.
BARCLAY: Probably somewhere between twelve hundred and fourteen fifty.
CRUSHER: But that isn't all. The corpus callosum, the connecting bridge between both sides of the brain, it is so active now that the hemispheres are essentially behaving as one.
LAFORGE: So, it's not just raw intelligence we're talking about here.
CRUSHER: No. Creativity, resourcefulness, inspiration, imagination, they've all been enhanced. Lieutenant, you could very well be the most advanced human being who has ever lived.

[Ready room]
RIKER: You said he made a pass at you, but you failed to mention whether he was successful or not.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: It wasn't me, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Computer, how were the Argus reactors shut down?
BARCLAY: A neural interface was created to expedite the repairs.
RIKER: Barclay?
PICARD: Computer, respond.
BARCLAY: I am responding, sir. I'm sorry if I caused you any alarm. It was necessary in order to secure the Array.
RIKER: Barclay!

[Holodeck]
RIKER: Barclay, what's going on? Barclay!
BARCLAY: Yes, Commander, it's me.
BARCLAY: I'm sorry, Captain, I was only trying to help. Our computer was too slow to compensate for the overload on the Array. So I created an interface that communicated my thoughts directly to the central processing unit.
RIKER: Exactly what does that mean?
BARCLAY: My body is as you see it here, but much of my higher brain functions and memory have been transferred to the starboard computer core.
PICARD: Mister Barclay, remove yourself from the computer system. Leave the holodeck.
BARCLAY: I'm afraid I can't, sir.
PICARD: Why not?
BARCLAY: My primary cerebral functions are now operating almost entirely from within the computer. They have expanded to such a degree that it would be impossible to return to the confines of my human brain. Any attempt to do so would mean my death.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: That's it. I've disconnected the visual and audio pickups. We can talk without being monitored by the computer.
WORF: By Barclay.
PICARD: Report, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: It is now almost impossible to tell where Barclay ends and the computer begins. He's actually rewriting the isolinear chips each time he extends himself a little further.
RIKER: How do we get him out of there?
LAFORGE: We don't. Not without killing him.
PICARD: This is an intolerable situation. I have no wish to harm him, but I cannot allow Mister Barclay to continue to act as the computer. I don't care how smart he is.
DATA: Lieutenant Barclay has not yet extended himself into the Engineering subsystems. It may be possible to establish an ODN bypass directly to the Bridge.
PICARD: That still won't give us control of the ship.
LAFORGE: No, but it would give us access to the propulsion systems. Enough to get us to the next Starbase.
RIKER: How long would it take to set that up?
LAFORGE: A few hours.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Jefferies tube]
BARCLAY: Commander La Forge?
LAFORGE: Yeah, Reg?
BARCLAY: I thought you would be in your quarters.
LAFORGE: No, I'm just catching up on some work, you know? That level three diagnostic we talked about. How're you doing?
BARCLAY: I wish I could convey to you what it's like for me now. What I've become.
LAFORGE: Yeah? Try.
BARCLAY: I can conceive almost infinite possibilities, and can fully explore each of them in a nanosecond. I perceive the universe as a single equation, and it is so simple, I understand.
LAFORGE: You understand?
BARCLAY: Everything.
LAFORGE: Well, do you understand how this happened to you?
BARCLAY: I believe it is a gift. That I have been chosen to fulfilll a great purpose.
LAFORGE: Ah ha.
BARCLAY: Do you suppose all of this has changed the way people think about me?
LAFORGE: To tell you the truth, Reg, we don't know what to think.
BARCLAY: I've been concerned about that, but soon everyone will understand what I can do for humanity.
LAFORGE: What do you mean?

[Holodeck]
BARCLAY: We have always perceived the maximum speed of the Enterprise as a function of warp, but I know now there are no limits. We will explore new worlds that we could never before have reached in our lifetime.

[Jefferies tube]
BARCLAY: I will take us to them.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, I am picking up subspace distortion.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: This disturbance is the result of a highly charged graviton field emanating from our warp nacelles. It is creating a severe bias in the subspace continuum.
PICARD: Mister Barclay, are you responsible for this graviton field disturbance?
BARCLAY: Yes, sir, I'm altering subspace in a way that's never been conceived of before. I'm fairly certain it will allow us to travel half-way across the galaxy in a matter of only
PICARD: Mister Barclay, I want you to stop this experiment for now.
BARCLAY: Captain, if you'd only allow me to show
PICARD: Mister Barclay, this is a direct order. Discontinue whatever it is you're doing.
BARCLAY: I really would rather not, sir. I'm positive that you'll be pleased with the result once I've finished showing
WORF: Audio is disconnected. We may speak freely.
RIKER: How soon before the ODN process is in place?
DATA: I have been monitoring Geordi's progress. It will be operational in seventeen minutes.
TROI: Captain, let me go to the holodeck and try and talk to him.
WORF: Sir, the subspace distortion continues to increase.

[Holodeck]
BARCLAY: Hello, Deanna.
TROI: Reg.
BARCLAY: I'm sorry that we can't take that walk in the Arboretum.
TROI: So am I. Reg, you've frightened all of us. I'm sure that wasn't your intent.
BARCLAY: Young children are sometimes frightened of the world. That doesn't mean that their parents should let them stay in their cribs.
TROI: Are we children to you now?
BARCLAY: I can see so much more than you are capable of. You should trust that. Deanna, I've always wanted to earn your respect.
TROI: You've got it. From all of us. We don't need any more convincing. Please, obey the Captain's orders. Stop whatever it is you're doing.
BARCLAY: You must trust me.
TROI: How can we trust an officer who doesn't follow orders?
BARCLAY: Trust me.
TROI: The Captain will do everything in his power to stop you.

[Jefferies tube]
PICARD: Picard to La Forge. Status?
LAFORGE: Ready, Captain.
PICARD: Proceed.
LAFORGE: Acknowledged.
BARCLAY: Commander?
LAFORGE: What?
BARCLAY: You're too late.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, we have not regained control of the propulsion systems. The ODN bypass to the Bridge has been blocked.
RIKER: Barclay!
BARCLAY: Yes, Commander Riker?

[Holodeck]
RIKER: Whatever it is you're doing out there, you've got to stop it.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, we're going in.
PICARD: Mister Barclay, respond at once!
WORF: Audio's disconnected.
PICARD: Lieutenant, take a security team to holodeck three. Disconnect Mister Barclay from the computer.
WORF: Aye, Captain.

[Holodeck]
BARCLAY: I want you to know, Lieutenant Worf, that I understand your duty in this matter.
WORF: Phasers. Maximum setting.
BARCLAY: And that I in no way will take your actions personally.
WORF: Conduits.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: So how much do you remember?
BARCLAY: I remember doing everything. I just don't remember how or why.
TROI: How do you feel now?
BARCLAY: Smaller.
LAFORGE: Just plain old Barclay, huh.
BARCLAY: Always seems to come back to that, doesn't it.
TROI: You know. almost everyone has a moment in their lives when they exceed their own limits, achieve what seems to be impossible.
LAFORGE: The tricky part is what happens afterwards.
TROI: You almost always feel a sense of loss, but it is possible to carry something of that experience through the rest of your life in ways that you aren't even aware of now.
BARCLAY: I think I know what you're saying.
LAFORGE: Either way, Reg, you're an important part of this crew. In fact, I could really use your help with that level three diagnostic.
BARCLAY: Sure.
TROI: Excuse me, Commander, but I believe Mister Barclay and I had a date scheduled, for a walk in the Arboretum?
LAFORGE: The diagnostic can wait. I'll see you later.
BARCLAY: You really, you really don't have to do that.
TROI: I know.
BARCLAY: May I? Checkmate in nine moves.
TROI: I didn't know you played chess.
BARCLAY: I don't.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
TROI: I thought you'd like to know the Council members have beamed aboard and been assigned their quarters.
PICARD: Excellent.
TROI: Captain, it really is quite late.
PICARD: Tell me, Counselor, with regard to my lecture, what do you think would provide greater clarity? A chronological structure, or the division of each excavation's findings into various religious, sociological and environmental sub-groupings?
TROI: I thought you'd already decided on a chronological structure.
PICARD: There is something to be said for a more scientific approach.
TROI: May I make a suggestion?
PICARD: By all means.
TROI: Relax. You've written a brilliant speech.
PICARD: It will need to be. Tomorrow I'll be addressing some of the greatest scientific minds in the Federation. Switzer, Klarc-Tarn-Droth, McFarland. Giants in the field of archeology. Compared to them I'm just an enthusiastic amateur.
TROI: I doubt they see of you as an amateur. Not when it comes to Tagus Three.
PICARD: Well, it's true, I have done my homework I have examined the findings of every archeological expedition conducted on the planet surface.
TROI: It is unfortunate that the Taguans no longer allow outsiders to visit the ruins.
PICARD: Indeed. Especially since we know so little about their origins. But I think that I have constructed some plausible theories of my own.
TROI: And I'm sure the council members will agree with you.
PICARD: Your support is appreciated, Counselor.
TROI: Now goodnight, Captain.

[Bridge]
RIKER: How was the reception?
PICARD: Splendid.

[Ready room]
Q: Jean-Luc, it's wonderful to see you again. How about a big hug? Well don't just stand there, say something.
PICARD: Get out of my chair.
Q: Oh, and I was hoping for something more along the lines of, welcome back, Q, it's a pleasure to see you again my old friend."
PICARD: We're not friends.
Q: You wound me, mon capitaine.
Q: There, perhaps now your manners will show some improvement.
PICARD: What brings you here, Q? Have you been banished by the Continuum once again?
Q: Oh, hardly. They're still apologizing to me for the last time.
PICARD: Then what is it you want?
Q: Do I always have to have a reason to stop by? I was merely in the sector, I. You force a confession from me. The truth is, I have a debt to repay.
PICARD: A debt?
Q: To you. And it gnaws at me, and it interferes with each of my days.
PICARD: I have no idea what you're talking about.
Q: Without your assistance at our last encounter, I never would have survived. I would have taken my own life but for you.
PICARD: We all make mistakes.
Q: Your good deed made possible my reinstatement in the Continuum, and I resent owing you anything. So, I'm here to pay up. Tell me, what is it you wish and I'll be gone.
PICARD: Just be gone. That'll do nicely.
Q: No, no, no, no, no. It has to be something more, more constructive. That's my new word for the day.
PICARD: Some other time, Q. Right now I have other matters to attend to.
Q: Yes, your speech. I read it. It's dull, plodding, pedantic, much like yourself. I could help you with it.
PICARD: No thank you.
Q: You've never actually been to the ruins at Tagus Three, have you?
PICARD: No. They were sealed off more than a century ago.
Q: Well, that explains it, then. How can you write about something that you've never seen. I know, why don't I take you there?
PICARD: Out of the question. That would mean breaking Taguan law.
Q: Must you always be so ethical? I suppose we could travel back in time. You could see what Tagus was like two billion years ago. They really knew how to party back in those days.
PICARD: My answer is still no. My lecture will have to stand on its own. Now, will you please leave my ship.
Q: You are simply the most impossible person to buy a gift for.
PICARD: Commander Riker, will you report to my Ready room?
RIKER: Yes, Captain?
PICARD: I've just been paid a visit from Q.
RIKER: Q? Any idea what he's up to?
PICARD: He wants to do something nice for me.
RIKER: I'll alert the crew.

[Picard's quarters]
Q: Sleeping alone?
PICARD: I'm in no mood for your foolishness, Q.
Q: I knew there was something different about you. You seem tense, preoccupied, somewhat smaller. At first I thought it was that horrible lecture of yours, but I was mistaken.
PICARD: Whatever game you want to play will have to wait until tomorrow.
Q: I had such high hopes for you, Picard. I thought you were a bit more evolved than the rest of your species. But now I realize you're just as weak as all the others. Still, it pains me to see the great Jean-Luc Picard brought down by a woman.
PICARD: What woman?
Q: Don't play coy with me, Captain. I witnessed your little spat with Vash. Nor will I soon forget the look of anguish on your face. The pain, the misery. If I didn't know better, I would have thought you were already married.
PICARD: You must be very bored, Q. Your imagination is running away with you.
Q: This human emotion, love, is a dangerous thing, Picard, and obviously you are ill-equipped to handle it. She's found a vulnerability in you. A vulnerability I've been looking for for years. If I had known sooner, I would have appeared as a female. Mark my words, Picard, this is your Achilles heel.
PICARD: Believe what you wish.
Q: Do you deny that you care for this woman? Believe me, I'd be doing you a big favor if I turned her into a Klabnian eel.
PICARD: Stay away from her, Q.
Q: I was just trying to help. My debt to you
PICARD: Is hereby nullified. I don't want your help, your advice, your favors or for that matter, you. Do you understand? Once and for all!
Q: You would have me stand idly by as she lead you to your destruction?
PICARD: Yes!
Q: As you wish.

[Meeting room]
PICARD: Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Archeology Council. Welcome. Mystery. It is the mystery of Tagus Three that brings us together today. It is a mystery that has invited more argument, more deduction, more speculation than the best works of fiction. And if you'll excuse the conceit, I want to tell you about my detective story. For several years now, I have been trying to unravel the secrets of Tagus Three.
PICARD: Needless to say, I've not succeeded.
PICARD: However, I have, I believe, turned up some new information, that, if nothing else, raises a whole new set of mysteries and I hope that we can discuss them here together.
PICARD: There have been nine hundred and forty seven known archeological excavations conducted on the planet's surface. Of those, some seventy four are generally believed to have revealed findings of major importance.
PICARD: The earliest was some twenty two thousand years ago.
PICARD: What the hell?

[Forest glade]
CRUSHER: I've managed to stop the bleeding.
PICARD: Q. It's about time you showed up.
Q: I would prefer if you addressed me as His Honor the High Sheriff of Nottingham.
PICARD: We will no longer share in this pointless fantasy of yours.
Q: Fine. stay here and do nothing. By midday tomorrow, your crew will be safely aboard their ship. Of course, you will have to accept the consequences of your inaction.
PICARD: Consequences?
Q: What is the one thing that Robin Hood is most famous for?
LAFORGE: He robs from the rich and gives to the poor.
Q: Besides that.
DATA: Perhaps you are referring to the rescue of Maid Marian from Nottingham Castle?
Q: Yes, Data. And it just so happens that Sir Guy of Gisbourne has decreed that Marian's head shall come off tomorrow at noon.
PICARD: Vash.
Q: It's your choice, Robin. You can either take your ease in this sylvan glade or risk your life to save the woman you care nothing about.
PICARD: My feelings toward Vash are irrelevant. I would attempt to save any innocent life, as you well know.
Q: Yes, but what about your merry men? Are you willing to jeopardize their lives as well? Is Vash's life worth more than Data's or Troi's or Worf's? You know, Worf, you'd make a perfect throw rug in Nottingham Castle.
PICARD: Q, I ask you to put and end to this before someone gets hurt.
Q: Oh, that's impossible. You see, I've given this fantasy as you call it, a life of its own. I have no more idea what's going to happen than you do. But of one thing I am absolutely sure. If you dare come to Nottingham Castle, blood will be spilt.

[Forest glade]
WORF: Sorry.
TROI: Data, are you alright?
DATA: The arrow impacted just above my sixth intercostal support, penetrating my secondary subprocessor. Fortunately, none of my biofunctions seem affected. Do not be concerned, Counselor. I believe your aim is improving.
RIKER: We've got to get out of here, Captain.
PICARD: Not we, Number One. I want you and the others to stay here until I return.
RIKER: You're not going to try to save her yourself, sir?
PICARD: This is not a mission. It's personal. It's between Q and myself. I don't want the rest of you involved.
RIKER: Captain!
PICARD: You have your orders, Commander. And I expect you to follow them.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: You and Crewman Marcus will coordinate to track Tarses' movements over the last five years. Ensign Kellogg, I want a list of all relatives, known associates, and especially old school friends. And make arrangements to do an encephalographic polygraph scan.
PICARD: Mister Worf?
WORF: Yes, Captain?
PICARD: I need to speak with you.
WORF: You are dismissed. Please get your reports to me as soon as possible.
PICARD: Do you see what is happening here, Mister Worf?
WORF: Sir?
PICARD: This is not unlike a drumhead trial.
WORF: I do not understand.
PICARD: Five hundred years ago, military officers would upend a drum on the battlefield sit at it and dispense summary justice. Decisions were quick, punishments severe, appeals denied. Those who came to a drumhead were doomed.
WORF: But we know there is a traitor here. J'Dan has admitted his guilt.
PICARD: That's true, and he will stand for his crimes.
WORF: Tarses has all but done the same.
PICARD: How?
WORF: He refused to answer the question about his Romulan grandfather.
PICARD: That is not a crime, Worf. Nor can we infer his guilt because he didn't respond.
WORF: Sir, if a man were not afraid of the truth, he would answer.
PICARD: Oh, no. We cannot allow ourselves think that. The Seventh Guarantee is one of the most important rights granted by the Federation. We cannot take a fundamental principle of the Constitution and turn it against a citizen.
WORF: Sir, the Federation does have enemies. We must seek them out.
PICARD: Oh, yes. That's how it starts. But the road from legitimate suspicion to rampant paranoia is very much shorter than we think. Something is wrong here, Mister Worf. I don't like what we have become.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: Am I bothering you, Captain?
PICARD: No. Please, Mister Worf. Come in.
WORF: It is over. Admiral Henry has called an end to any more hearings on this matter.
PICARD: That's good.
WORF: Admiral Satie has left the Enterprise.
PICARD: We think we've come so far. The torture of heretics, the burning of witches, it's all ancient history. Then, before you can blink an eye, it suddenly threatens to start all over again.
WORF: I believed her. I helped her. I did not see what she was.
PICARD: Mister Worf, villains who wear twirl their mustaches are easy to spot. Those who clothe themselves in good deeds are well camouflaged.
WORF: I think after yesterday, people will not be as ready to trust her.
PICARD: Maybe. But she, or someone like her, will always be with us, waiting for the right climate in which to flourish, spreading fear in the name of righteousness. Vigilance, Mister Worf, that is the price we have to continually pay.

[Bridge]
WORF: I have completed long range scans. There are no other life forms are present in this system.
RIKER: Spacecraft?
WORF: None within sensor range.
PICARD: Picard to Engineering.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Very well. Mister Worf?
WORF: Photon torpedoes armed and targeted.
PICARD: Fire in sequence.
WORF: First volley released.
DATA: Tracking torpedoes. Entry program confirmed.
WORF: Second volley released.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Five seconds. Four.

[Bridge]
DATA: Pressure wave harmonics dispersing. Temperature in target zone increasing to eighty one million degrees, sir.
LAFORGE: Still rising.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Temperature at ninety million degrees Kelvin. And now one hundred ten million. Looking good. One hundred thirty seven.

[Bridge]
DATA: Radiation and pressure levels still stable.
LAFORGE: Temperature is one hundred and seventy million degrees Kelvin.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: Turbulence patterns are within predicted parameters.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Two twenty two.

[Bridge]
DATA: Temperature is rising in the core again, Captain. Two hundred and thirty million degrees Kelvin.
LAFORGE: Still rising, Captain.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Two fifty one.

[Bridge]
DATA: Rate exceeding critical level. Core density is becoming unstable.
RIKER: Let's get the hell out of here.
PICARD: Ensign, warp two now!

[Bridge]
RIKER: No, sir. It's your daughter.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Put a cold cloth on your forehead, Ambassador. I'll do my best to be with you shortly.
CRUSHER: I'll set you up at the medical monitor, Data. It'll take you a while to input the figures, won't it?
DATA: At least an hour, but I do not believe much time can be saved by exhibiting such haste now.
CRUSHER: Data, there are times when every second does count.

[Bridge]
DATA: Initiate shuttle preflight sequence.
RIKER: Preflight underway. Counting to clearance.
DATA: Shuttle has cleared the bay door.
WORF: Commander Riker, you will be out of shield range in five seconds.
RIKER: Acknowledged

[Shuttlecraft]
RIKER: Lieutenant. We'll be entering the upper ionosphere in two minutes and twenty seconds.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, an unidentified ship is emerging from the limb of the moon.
PICARD: Hail the vessel.
RIKER: I have visual contact. I don't recognize it.
WORF: It claims to be an escort vessel from the Beta moon.
PICARD: There was no mention of an escort. Request a security clearance code.
WORF: They do not answer, sir.
PICARD: Commander Riker, prepare to return to the shuttlebay.
RIKER: Acknowledged.
WORF: Captain, they are loading its phaser banks.

[Shuttlecraft]
RIKER: Increasing power to the shields.
RIKER: Coming about.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Engage tractor beam. Report, Number One.
RIKER: We've lost port thrusters

[Bridge]
RIKER: Advise Doctor Crusher we have a medical emergency.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: Odan's host body died of the injuries just over an hour ago. But the symbiont being, Odan, is still alive. Odan is the one who negotiated the last treaty, but the man everyone thought was his father was just another host body.
RIKER: And the reason Odan refused the transporter?
CRUSHER: It would have damaged the symbiont.
PICARD: We've contacted the Trill. Another host will be here in forty hours.
CRUSHER: I've placed Odan in stasis. He can survive another hour, maybe two, but not beyond that.
DATA: Would it be possible for me to serve as a temporary carrier?
CRUSHER: No, Data. The relationship requires a biological being.
PICARD: We are at a desperate impasse in the Peliar system. The attack on the shuttlecraft has inflamed the dispute.
TROI: Who was responsible?
PICARD: No one will admit anything. Each side accuses the other and the threats are mounting. We need Odan.
RIKER: Doctor, could a human host carry him?
CRUSHER: I believe so. From Odan's description of the process it should be possible. But I don't have
RIKER: Then I volunteer.
CRUSHER: There's been no precedent for a human host. I couldn't guarantee what might happen.
PICARD: The risk is too great, Commander.
RIKER: Weigh it against the prospect of war.
PICARD: It's your choice, Will.
RIKER: Let's get to it.

[Odan's quarters]
CRUSHER: White cell count is elevated, six tenths of a degree of temperature. But no sign of rejection.
RIKER: That's good.
CRUSHER: You look awfully pale.
RIKER: Just a little weak and light-headed.
CRUSHER: Cerebral blood flow looks normal. I'll leave you a metabolic booster. Use it if the symptoms get worse.
RIKER: Beverly.
CRUSHER: Beyond that, I don't know what to do. This is all new to me.
RIKER: It is new to me as well. Please, don't go. We've got to talk about this.
CRUSHER: I don't know what to say.
RIKER: Nor do I, but I know that this silence will injure us.
CRUSHER: Well maybe you should have thought about that sooner. Maybe you should have told me what you were. It didn't seem to bother you to remain silent yesterday.
RIKER: It never occurred to me. This is what I am. Did you ever tell me that you are only a single being? Of course not. That was normal to you.
CRUSHER: I don't know who you are.
RIKER: You must understand, whoever I seem to be, I am Odan, who loved you. That has not changed. I still love you. I can't help that. If this causes you pain, I will suppress it, I will keep my distance. Doctor Beverly, I would never hurt you.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: May I join you?
CRUSHER: You know, Deanna, the first man I ever loved unconditionally was named Stefan. He was a soccer player, and I would watch him as he would race down the field and I thought my heart would stop because he was so beautiful. We married and had three children. Twin boys, Andrew and Alexander, and then later a little girl, Jennifer. Stefan became an artist, very famous. He created huge, breathtaking, metal sculptures. He came to adore me as much as I worshiped him. In my daydreams at least. Stefan was eleven and I was eight. He never even knew I existed. Oh, Deanna, I loved Odan. I'm sure of it. I had no doubts, no fears, but what it was I loved? His eyes? His hands? His mouth? They're gone. If that was all it was, I should mourn him and go on. But it was more than that. I felt completely free with him. Unguarded. At ease with myself. There were so many things that made him special to me. Where are they? Are they still here, alive in Will Riker? I look at Will and I see someone I've known for years. A kind of brother. But inside, is he really Odan? Help me, please.
TROI: What do your feelings tell you?
CRUSHER: I feel his pull. It's very powerful. I wish he'd never come on this ship.
TROI: Don't wish that, Beverly. You can't be open to love if you don't risk pain.
CRUSHER: I don't care. I'd give anything not to feel the way I do now. He's here, isn't he?
TROI: Look at him.
CRUSHER: I don't want to look at him. Talk to me. Just keep talking to me.
TROI: The first man I ever loved was my father. He was strong and tall. He carried me when the ground was muddy. He chased away the monsters that hid under my bed at night. And he sang to me, and kept me safe. And he went away. What I wouldn't give to hear those songs again. To feel his arms protect me. I never will, but I can still feel his warmth and his love as though he were here with me. If you can feel those things from the man we know as Will Riker, accept them. Accept the love.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 44823.8. Representatives of the two moons of Peliar Zel have agreed to come on board to meet the new Ambassador Odan.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: His vital functions are overworked. His immune system is under attack. I can only guess that he's suffering from classic rejection syndrome.
PICARD: Is there any treatment you can give him?
CRUSHER: I can administer an immunosuppressant. That could help relieve the symptoms but it Can't correct the underlying cause. There is a foreign organism in his body. Medical school didn't exactly prepare me for situations like this.
PICARD: You're doing all you can.
CRUSHER: Don't worry about me, Captain. I'm fine.
PICARD: Ambassador, when you feel up to it, would you join me in my Ready room?
RIKER: Of course.
CRUSHER: I'm giving you something that should help with the pain. At least for a little while.
RIKER: The pain's gone. Thank you.
CRUSHER: Please don't.
RIKER: Please let me touch you, just for a moment.
CRUSHER: No. Please.

[Ready room]
PICARD: It was a fast decision, which we must take as positive. The Alphan representative has agreed, however reluctantly. to let you mediate the dispute.
RIKER: I knew they would. They are reasonable people, they're just trapped in their own anger.
PICARD: I have no doubt, however, that they will bolt if something goes wrong in the discussion.
RIKER: Then it's my job to see nothing goes wrong. Did I said something wrong, Captain Picard?
PICARD: No, it's just that for a moment you sounded more like Will Riker. We have received information that the new host will arrive in eighteen hours. Will you be all right until then?
RIKER: The medication Doctor Beverly gave me has helped. I will find a way to keep going.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: Lemon tea.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: White count is back up, temperature is elevated. The effects of the medication are wearing off faster every time. I'll administer one now and hope that it will hold for an hour or two.
RIKER: No, no more.
PICARD: Ambassador, it's clear you're in pain. You can't get through the next hours without help.
RIKER: I must.
CRUSHER: Are the injections damaging to the host's body, Riker's body?
RIKER: Yes. We can't put him through any further risk.
CRUSHER: But how can you function, conduct the meeting?
RIKER: I'll manage.
PICARD: We'll respect your wishes.
RIKER: One more thing. I will conduct the mediations today, but at the end of today, regardless of the outcome, I must be removed from Riker's body. Even if the new host has not arrived.
CRUSHER: But you wouldn't survive.
RIKER: Riker will not survive if I am removed. He has done enough. Your word.
CRUSHER: Very well.
WORF: Worf to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Yes, Mister Worf?
WORF: The Governor and the two representatives have returned. I will escort them to the Observation Lounge.
PICARD: Thank you.
CRUSHER: I'll stand by with the medication, just in case. The pain may become so intense that I'll have to
PICARD: Beverly. Whatever else I may be to you, I am your friend. I can only imagine what you're going through, and I want you to know I'm here.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc.

[Shuttlebay]
DATA: Welcome back, Geordi.
LAFORGE: Data!
DATA: How was the seminar?
LAFORGE: Very informative. I'll tell you all about it.

[Corridor]
DATA: It is fortunate we were able to coordinate your return on the Teldarian cruiser.
LAFORGE: Yeah, when I heard the Enterprise had been ordered to the Krios system, I thought I might be forced to endure another couple of weeks on Risa.
DATA: I am sorry to hear you did not enjoy yourself.
LAFORGE: I was joking.
DATA: Joking? Ah. Forced to endure Risa. Your actual intent was to emphasize that you did enjoy yourself. Yes, I see how that could be considered quite amusing.
LAFORGE: I missed you, Data.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: The Carnelians have actually done the most work on artificial intelligence, so I spent a lot of time in their research seminars.
TROI: Geordi, I get the feeling that something special happened on this vacation, and I'm not talking about computers.
LAFORGE: Well, I did take second place in a chess tournament.
TROI: Yes.
LAFORGE: And I swam a lot. I worked on my back stroke. The water is very calm on Risa.
TROI: And?
LAFORGE: And I walked a lot. That's all. Well, I ate enough for twelve people. The food there is terrific. They've got a chocolate there, Counselor, you would love.
TROI: And that's all?
LAFORGE: Yeah. Well, there was this
TROI: Yes?
LAFORGE: Her name is Jonek. But you wouldn't want to hear about that. Better get ready for duty. Nice talking to you, Counselor.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: Red Torian, please. Thank you.
LAFORGE: Oh! I'm sorry.
O'BRIEN: It's all right.
LAFORGE: My glass, it just slipped.
O'BRIEN: It's nothing, just a little cold.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but you're all soaked here.
O'BRIEN: It's nothing serious.
LAFORGE: Let me get you something to wipe that off with.
O'BRIEN: I'll just go to my quarters and change.
LAFORGE: You sure?
O'BRIEN: Don't think twice about it, Commander.

[Engineering]
DATA: Energy flow is within normal parameters, from the pre-fire chamber to the emission aperture.
LAFORGE: Rapid nadion pulse, right on target. Beam control assembly, safety interlock, both checked out. Beam width intensity controls also responding correctly.
DATA: Energy cell usage remains constant at one point oh five megajoules per second. Curious. The efficiency reading on the discharge crystal is well above Starfleet specifications.
LAFORGE: Yeah, by quite a bit. Ninety four point one percent efficiency.
DATA: Our most efficient discharge crystal typically fires with eighty six point five percent efficiency.
LAFORGE: Let's take a closer look at the wave pattern on the emission beam. That might tell us why it's losing so little energy.
DATA: Pulse frequency out of pre-fire chamber reads steady.
LAFORGE: There. That's not right. The initial output spike is inverted.
DATA: That might suggest that the weapon has been charged with a forced pulse, well into the terahertz range.
LAFORGE: Then it's definitely not Starfleet issue and there can't be that many systems that use the terahertz feeds.
DATA: Three hundred twenty seven, to our knowledge. We can probably achieve an exact match with a random computer search. It will take approximately three hours.
LAFORGE: I think we could narrow this down with a little common sense, Data. Who has the most to gain from a conflict between the Klingon Empire and the Federation?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Another E-band blip?
DATA: Yes, sir. However, the difference in intensity indicates that this one did not originate from the same location as the first.
RIKER: If it's changed intensity, it can't possibly be a protostar.
DATA: That is a reasonable assumption.
RIKER: Is there any known instance of Romulans using E-band communications?
DATA: Not to my knowledge, sir.
RIKER: Can you track the source?
DATA: We can reconfigure the primary sensor array. If we narrow their focus to scan for E-band emissions, we might be able to calculate a directional vector. But only if there are more occurrences.
RIKER: Do it.

[Engineering]
DATA: The primary plasma system does not indicate a power drain from any of the transporters.
LAFORGE: Then whoever used the transporter must have bypassed the primary feeds.
DATA: Tracking power from secondary systems. No surges to any of the transporters indicated.
LAFORGE: Damn, who could have pulled this off? Try the life-support power flows.
DATA: No abnormal surges indicated.
LAFORGE: Replicator waveguides? There. That's not a replicator energy pattern. Trace it.
DATA: Cargo bay four.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Worf. Security to cargo bay four.

[Cargo bay]
O'BRIEN: I've run a level one diagnostic. As far as I can tell, the unit hasn't been tampered with.
LAFORGE: This has to be the transfer point.
DATA: Perhaps the perpetrator reprogrammed the memory chips to erase any record.
O'BRIEN: You're talking about thirty or forty chips in half a dozen different control systems.
WORF: Which members of the crew could have accomplished that?
LAFORGE: I think I could have done it, if I put my mind to it. The Chief, Data, Lieutenant Costa, that's about it.
WORF: Procedure requires that I ask each of you where you were at eleven twenty three hours.
O'BRIEN: I was with Keiko, in the Arboretum.
DATA: I was on the Bridge at my station.
LAFORGE: I was in my quarters.
WORF: Was anyone with you?
LAFORGE: No, I was alone. Costa was on duty in Engineering. I'm sure he's got twenty witnesses.
WORF: Then there is someone on board who isn't what he or she seems to be.
LAFORGE: Data, let's do a detailed scan on every chip in this assembly. There's got to be some kind of trail we can follow.

[La Forge's quarters]
LAFORGE: La Forge to O'Brien. O'Brien?
O'BRIEN: Go ahead, Commander, what can I do for you?
LAFORGE: Nothing. Chief, I'm sorry to disturb you. I'm sorry.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: Hiya, Doc.
CRUSHER: Geordi, hi. What can I do for you?
LAFORGE: Well, I just can't seem to get any sleep. I was hoping you could give me something.
CRUSHER: Sit down. Let's take a look. You couldn't sleep at all?
LAFORGE: I was restless. I kept waking up.
CRUSHER: Would you take off your visor, please?
LAFORGE: Sure.
CRUSHER: Is there something on your mind?
LAFORGE: No, I don't think so.
CRUSHER: Well, everybody goes through these occasional bouts of insomnia. There's probably nothing to worry about. Let's just make sure there's nothing physically wrong. There's a minor vascular irregularity in the visual cortex. A slight dilation of the blood vessels. It's nothing serious. What about your visor? Has it been giving you any problems lately?
LAFORGE: Nothing out of the ordinary.
CRUSHER: All the same, it might be a good idea to have it examined when we get to Starbase thirty six next month.
LAFORGE: Okay.
CRUSHER: In the meantime, I will get you a somnetic inducer to put by your bed. It'll help you to sleep.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Doc. I'm sure I'll be fine.

[Cargo bay]
O'BRIEN: My technicians have examined all of the ship's transporters, sir. I can assure you, this is the only unit that has been tampered with.

[Cargo bay]
PICARD: All our transporter containers have a slight impurity in the structural alloys which allows us to trace our material.
O'BRIEN: Commander La Forge?
LAFORGE: What can I do for you, Chief?
O'BRIEN: Could you take a look at the pattern buffers? Considering what's happened, I'm not sure the control systems are reliable.
LAFORGE: Sure. Sure, let's take a look.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Maybe we should run a level one diagnostic on those phase transition coils.
O'BRIEN: Right, Commander.
DATA: Data to La Forge.

[Shuttlebay]
DATA: Report, please. Geordi.

[Cargo bay]
DATA: Please respond.

[Cargo bay]
DATA: Priority One.
WORF: Go ahead.

[Corridor]
DATA: Take Commander La Forge into custody immediately.

[Cargo bay]
WORF: Sir?

[Corridor]
DATA: That is an order.

[La Forge's quarters]
LAFORGE: But I remember everything! Like, there was this one night at dinner, we had this Andorian waiter, he couldn't get our orders right. It did happen. I remember being on Risa.
TROI: I know you do. Just take that memory and put it aside for a moment, and tell me everything you remember about the shuttlecraft trip after you left the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: Well, I was just trying to get in the mood. I played some music, I talked to the computer. You know what it's like on a long trip.
TROI: And when you saw the Romulan ship, did you try calling for help?
LAFORGE: No, the first thing I did. Wait a minute, that's. But that's
TROI: It'll take time, Geordi. A long time. But we will reconstruct your memory. Together.
LAFORGE: I'm just not sure about anything.
TROI: Believe it or not, that's a good sign. A beginning. Now, let's go back to the shuttlecraft. There was a Romulan ship and the first thing you did was?

[Bridge]
DATA: To begin the first illumination test.
RIKER: Acknowledged. All science stations, stand by. We're about to light up the nebula. Mister Worf?
WORF: Launch bay one shows ready, Commander.
RIKER: Fire torpedo.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report, Mister Data.
DATA: I am nearly finished compiling readings from our most recent illuminatory burst. Dark matter density is nearly one order of magnitude higher than in similar nebulae. Life forms here may have developed in ways never before observed.
RIKER: Interesting hypothesis. Are there any M-class planets we could check out?
DATA: Several, sir. The nearest is approximately three light hours from our present position.
PICARD: It's worth a look. We'll continue our survey along the way.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Let's increase the flow rate and see if that helps.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: Hello, Data. Would you like to try something new? It's a concoction I heard about on Prakal Two. I think it's wonderful but I need a second opinion.
DATA: Eighty seven percent Saurian Brandy. Targ milk and Danisian mead comprise the rest. There is an unusually high concentration of fructose compounds and monosaccharides.
GUINAN: Too sweet? Data, if I didn't know you better, I would say you were a little preoccupied.
DATA: Lieutenant D'Sora just gave me what could be considered a very passionate kiss in the torpedo bay.
GUINAN: Really? And?
DATA: I was intrigued. Jenna seemed to be displaying genuine affection for me.
GUINAN: Well, what do you think of her, Data?
DATA: I find her to be a competent officer. Highly motivated, though somewhat lacking in her understanding of the theory underlying the dilithium matrix application.
GUINAN: I meant personally?
DATA: I look forward to the time we spend together.
GUINAN: Well, then it seems the next move is yours. What are you going to do?
DATA: I do not know. I have no experience in such matters. I require advice.
GUINAN: Don't look at me. No, no, Data, I simply mean that I can't give you any advice here. It's not good to advise people about their first love affairs. That's kind of something they have to figure out for themselves.
DATA: But I am not capable of love.
GUINAN: Then it's going to be a very unique experience.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Data. Missing someone? I found Spot wandering through the corridor two sections away.
DATA: Thank you.
LAFORGE: Forget to secure the door when you left?
DATA: The door sensor is programmed to recognize only humanoid forms for entry and egress. Spot could not have triggered the mechanism.

[Troi's office]
TROI: I think you should be careful. This isn't just some experiment you're running, Data. Jenna is a living, breathing person with needs and feelings that have to be considered.
DATA: Then you do not believe I should pursue this any further.
TROI: I didn't say that. I just want you to be aware that this is unlike any other more casual relationship that you've attempted.
DATA: I have studied much human literature on the subject of love and romantic liaisons. There are many role models for me to emulate.
TROI: Ultimately, Jenna will care for you for what you are, not what you imitate out of a book.
DATA: My programming may be inadequate to the task.
TROI: We're all more than the sum of our parts, Data. You'll have to be more than the sum of your programming.

[Bridge]
WORF: Klingons do not pursue relationships. They conquer that which they desire. However, Lieutenant D'Sora serves under my command. If she were mistreated, I would be very displeased, sir.
DATA: I understand.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: I think you should pursue it. First of all, she's a beautiful woman. She seems to be crazy about you.
DATA: Jenna has clearly demonstrated how she feels about me, but I am not capable of returning those feelings.
RIKER: Data, when you get involved with another person, there are always risks of disappointment, of getting hurt.
DATA: I cannot be hurt. But she can.
RIKER: Jenna knows that and she has obviously decided to take the chance. Data, when it really works between two people, it's not like anything you've ever experienced. The rewards are far beyond simple friendship.
DATA: How far, sir?
RIKER: That's what I'm hoping you're going to find out.
DATA: Thank you, Commander.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, I am seeking advice in how
PICARD: Yes, I've heard, Data, and I would be delighted to offer any advice I can on understanding women. When as I have some, I'll let you know. Second Officer's personal log, stardate 44935.6. After conferring with my colleagues regarding the nature of romantic love in general, and my own situation in particular, I have reached a decision.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Estimated time of arrival, Mister Data?
DATA: We will reach the class M planet in approximately eleven hours, sir.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Picard to Lieutenant Worf.

[Bridge]
WORF: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: Would you step into my Ready room, please. And bring a tricorder with you.
WORF: Aye, Captain.

[Ready room]
WORF: Captain?
PICARD: What do you make of this?
WORF: I am puzzled, sir.
PICARD: So am I, Mister Worf.
WORF: Captain, the only detectable bioelectric residuals are your own. You did not
PICARD: No. I did not. Perhaps we have a poltergeist.
WORF: Sir?
PICARD: A mischievous spirit.
WORF: Sir.
PICARD: Perhaps not.
WORF: I cannot explain how an intruder entered this room, but I recommend we go to Red Alert.
PICARD: Not yet.
WORF: Then I will order one of my officers to stand watch. Worf to Ensign
PICARD: That's alright, Mister Worf. I think, for now, circumstances warrant caution, nothing more.
WORF: As you wish, Captain.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Riker to Captain Picard. I think you'd better come out here, sir.
PICARD: Acknowledged.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: Captain.
WORF: I do not understand.
RIKER: Are you picking anything up, Data?
DATA: I detect no unusual readings along standard parameters. Curious. The transparent aluminum alloy of this window is exhibiting a pattern of transient electrical currents.
PICARD: Explanation?
DATA: I have none. The rate is characteristic of a subspace distortion, but I am picking up no evidence of a subspace field.
PICARD: We'll hold position while we seek an explanation for these anomalies. Let's divert all our resources to that end.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Van Mayter, you take access tube twenty three M and look at the bridge connectors. Thorne, I'll cover the aft section. You go down
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. This series of unexplained events has now resulted in the death of a crewmember, but it appears that Mister Data may have an explanation.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: During the last occurrence, I was able to confirm one of my hypotheses. The unusual preponderance of dark matter in this nebula is causing small gaps in the fabric of normal space. As the Enterprise moves through this nebula, it is colliding with these deformations.
LAFORGE: So every time we hit one, part of the ship momentarily phases out of normal space.
DATA: Or when one of them hits us. My readings suggest that the deformations themselves are in motion.
RIKER: It's a good thing one of these pockets didn't pass through a photon torpedo casing or the matter-antimatter containment pods.
PICARD: The question is, how do we get out? Mister Data, could you reconfigure the sensors to detect these anomalies?
DATA: Yes, sir, but only at extremely close range. Even at minimal speed, it would be almost impossible to maneuver the Enterprise quickly enough to avoid them.
WORF: A shuttlecraft is more maneuverable.
RIKER: He's right. If we could position the shuttlecraft far enough in front of the Enterprise, it could detect the pockets and allow us enough time to maneuver out of the way.
LAFORGE: We could give the shuttle control of our navigational systems. That way, the corresponding maneuvers would be virtually instantaneous.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I'll do my pre-flight once I'm on board.
PICARD: Not this time, Will. I want you on the Bridge.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: I'm going to pilot the shuttle.
RIKER: Captain, it's my duty as First Officer to safeguard the lives on this ship, including yours. The Enterprise can't afford to lose you, sir. Certainly not in this situation.
PICARD: I believe our best chance of escaping this situation is for me to pilot the shuttle. It's my ship, Will. I've got to do this.
RIKER: Sir.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: I want to be able to pull him out of there in case we have to.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.

[Shuttle]
PICARD: Changing course new heading two nine nine mark zero two nine.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Damage to the shuttle's starboard impulse nacelle, Captain.

[Shuttle]
PICARD: I'm re-routing the secondary deuterium supply. Switching to manual control.

[Bridge]
DATA: Transceiver signal is down forty two percent. Navigational inputs are not registering.
RIKER: We've lost our link, Captain.

[Shuttle]
PICARD: You'll have to make course changes manually until we re-establish the connection.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Understood. Mister Data, get us back online. Geordi, try boosting the power to the LU bands. McKnight, increase the distance between the Enterprise and the shuttle. We're going to need some more room to make manual adjustments.

[Bridge]
WORF: Deformation impact on deck fifteen, science section.
RIKER: Damage?
WORF: Reports coming in. Minimal damage.

[Shuttle]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I am still having difficulty controlling the shuttlecraft.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Your krellide storage cells are losing their charge. Maintaining manual control is going to become increasingly difficult.

[Shuttle]
PICARD: Estimated distance to the nebula's perimeter?
DATA: Four point seven million kilometers, sir.
PICARD: Is there a way to transfer the microfusion thrusters so I can get a power boost?
DATA: Possibly. If you augment the thruster sequencing so that the inertial dampening fields
PICARD: Bearing two seven, make that two eight five, mark two five five!

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, the shuttle is out of control.
RIKER: Mister O'Brien do you have the Captain's signal?
O'BRIEN: I'm having trouble locking on, sir.
DATA: Sir, the shuttle's inertial dampeners have failed. It is breaking up.
RIKER: Let's get him out of there.

[Shuttle]
PICARD: Now would be a good time, Mister O'Brien.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Enter.
PICARD: Am I intruding?
WORF: No, sir. My apologies, Captain. I can be back in uniform
PICARD: No, that won't be necessary, Mister Worf. I'm not here as your captain. I'm here as the man who stood with you before the High Council. Your cha'DIch. We will arrive at your home world in less than a day.
WORF: It is not time yet.
PICARD: That doesn't sound like the man who came to me a year ago fiercely determined to return home and to clear his father's name or die trying. Isn't it time to confront the Council? To regain your family name? Let the truth be known?
WORF: I have been told that patience is sometimes a more effective weapon than the sword.
PICARD: Patience is a human virtue, one which I am glad to see you've taken to heart. But doesn't this situation require a more Klingon response? Your discommendation is a facade to protect less honorable men. It is a lie. Lies must be challenged.
WORF: I have grown weary of bearing this dishonor.
RIKER: Riker to Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We've been intercepted by the Klingon vessel Bortas.

[Worf's quarters]
RIKER: They claim to be our escort.
WORF: No escort was scheduled.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Worf, would you escort our guest to the transporter room?
PICARD: Begin monitoring Romulan activity along the Neutral Zone, Mister Data. Have the outpost stations send us their tactical reports.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: The Duras family are preparing to move against Gowron.
RIKER: Backed by Romulans?
PICARD: I don't know. But there is too much history between the Duras and the Romulans to discount the possibility.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
WORF: Captain, I request a leave of absence.
PICARD: Mister Worf, request granted.
WORF: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Lieutenant. Qapla!
PICARD: And good luck. Lieutenant Worf, personal log, stardate 44996.1. I have located the Klingon ship on which my brother Kurn serves as captain, and have arranged to join him.

[Bridge]
DATA: Do you also require the original logs recorded during the attack, Lieutenant?
WORF: Everything we have on the Khitomer massacre.
DATA: We can provide you with our analysis of the communications between the Khitomer outpost and the Romulan ships. However, for a complete record you will have to contact Starbase twenty four
PICARD: Mister Worf. Have you canceled your leave?
WORF: No, sir.
PICARD: Lieutenant, would you join me in my Ready room?

[Ready room]
PICARD: Mister Worf, you're using our files on the Khitomer massacre as evidence against Duras' father?
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Do you not see an inherent conflict of interest here?
WORF: Sir, those Federation records will help me prove that my father was falsely accused of treason.
PICARD: You are using your position as a Starfleet officer to affect political change on your planet. There could not be a worse compromise of our fundamental principles.
WORF: Do not tie my hands now. I must be able to prove my father's innocence. Those Federation records can do that.
PICARD: Mister Worf. Here I am lecturing you on a conflict of interest while I'm desperately trying to avoid one of my own. Do you think I wish to allow the Duras family to solidify their hold on the Council? Do you think I cannot see for myself the implications for the Federation? Good Lord, Duras tried to have me killed! All of my instincts, my training, my very being as a Starfleet officer are at odds with my responsibilities as Arbiter of the Klingon High Council. We walk the same tightrope between two worlds, you and I. We must try our very best to keep those two worlds separate, or we shall certainly fall.
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: I will make the Khitomer massacre files available to anyone who wants them. To the High Council, to the Duras family, to you. Anyone.
WORF: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, this is as far as I can go.
RIKER: Riker to Picard.
PICARD: Yes, Number One.

[Bridge]
RIKER: There's a message coming in for you from the surface. It's coded personal.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Send it through.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Red alert.
DATA: A second ship has joined the attack on the Bortas.
PICARD: It's begun.

[Bridge]
DATA: The Bortas has lost her port shields, sir. It is unlikely they will withstand another hit at that quarter. Their primary life support has failed, sir.
RIKER: The Bortas has put out a general distress call.
PICARD: Ensign Riol, plot a course to take us safely away from the combat area. Half impulse.
RIKER: Captain, the Bortas is Gowron's ship. If he's the legitimate leader of the Empire, shouldn't we help him?
PICARD: If we go to the aid of the Bortas, we'll be dragging the Federation into a Klingon civil war.
RIKER: What about Worf?
PICARD: Ensign, engage.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Enter.
PICARD: Am I intruding?
WORF: No, sir.
PICARD: I understand that you'll be serving on board the Bortas.
WORF: As weapons officer.
PICARD: Your tactical knowledge and experience will serve them well.
WORF: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, are you certain that this is the right decision?
WORF: I was rescued from Khitomer by humans. Raised and loved by human parents. I've spent most of my life around humans, fought beside them. But I was born a Klingon. My heart is of that world. I do hear the cry of the warrior. I belong with my people.
PICARD: Being the only Klingon ever to serve in Starfleet gave you a singular distinction, but I felt that what was unique about you was your humanity, compassion, generosity, fairness. You took the best qualities of humanity and made them part of you. The result was a man who I was proud to call one of my officers. I'll have your belongings transported to the Bortas.
WORF: Thank you, sir.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Attention on deck.

[Transporter room]
WORF: Permission to leave the ship, sir?
PICARD: Permission granted. Qapla'
WORF: Goodbye.
RIKER: Dismissed.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Starfleet is stretched pretty thin across the quadrant. There are only about twelve ships within a day's travel of this position.
LAFORGE: The only other ships available are either in spacedock for repairs or still under construction. Most of them don't even have full crews yet.
RIKER: We could probably scare up seven, maybe eight, more ships.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, can you implement your tachyon detection grid with twenty ships?
LAFORGE: It's possible, but the more ships, the bigger the net we can throw.
PICARD: All right. I want to add the Tian Nan Men, the Sutherland and the Hermes, whether the yard superintendent says they're ready or not. Mister Data, will you select a group of experienced Enterprise officers to augment the crews of those ships.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Will, I want you to command the Excalibur. Her crew was reassigned when she put in for repairs. Geordi, you will be his First Officer.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: I want the fleet underway by oh nine hundred tomorrow. Thank you, gentlemen.
PICARD: Yes, Mister Data?
DATA: May I ask a question, sir, of a personal nature?
PICARD: Yes.
DATA: I am confused. Why have I not been assigned to command a ship in the fleet, sir?
PICARD: Well, I felt that you would be needed here. Why do you ask?
DATA: You have commented on the lack of senior officers available for this mission. I believe my twenty six years of Starfleet service qualifies me for such a post. However, if you do not believe the time has arrived for an android to command a starship, perhaps I should address myself to improving my
PICARD: Commander. I believe the starship Sutherland will need a captain. I can think of no one better suited to the task than you.
DATA: Thank you, sir.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: The Endeavor has cleared the dock, Captain. All ships standing by.
PICARD: Good. Course one one eight mark three five seven, full impulse power. Signal the fleet to get underway. We'll enter warp once we're clear of the system.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Engage.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: We're crossing into Klingon territory, Captain.
PICARD: Signal the fleet to maintain yellow alert until further notice.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Begin long range scans of the Romulan border.
O'BRIEN: No uncloaked ships within sensor range. A few subspace anomalies, but nothing firm.
PICARD: Those anomalies could be cloaked ships.
O'BRIEN: Could be, sir.
PICARD: Open a channel to the Excalibur.
RIKER: Excalibur, Riker here.
PICARD: Deploy the fleet, Will. It's time to spread our net.
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We're ready, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, how long do you think it will take the Romulans to detect the tachyon field once it's activated?
LAFORGE: Not long Romulan sensors are as good as ours.
PICARD: Very well. Energize the network.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: So you believe her, Counselor?
TROI: I'm not saying we should accept her claim at face value, but I sensed no deception from her. She really believes she is the daughter of Tasha Yar.
CRUSHER: Regardless of what she believes, Sela can't be her daughter. I've reviewed all of Tasha's medical records, and there is no indication that she was ever pregnant.
PICARD: Besides, Tasha was a child when this woman was born.
TROI: Sela could have been cloned.
CRUSHER: Or had her appearance surgically altered.
PICARD: But why? What possible advantage could there be to the Romulans? As this now stands, I don't think this will have any impact on our strategy. We'll continue the blockade, leave the next move to them. Thank you.
GUINAN: Am I intruding?
PICARD: No, not at all. Is something wrong?
GUINAN: News travels fast. I heard that Tasha Yar's daughter is aboard the Romulan ship.
PICARD: I think that the Romulans are just hoping to create a distraction. They want to keep us off balance.
GUINAN: How much do you know about what happened to the last ship called Enterprise?
PICARD: Enterprise C? She was lost at the battle of Narendra Three, defending a Klingon outpost from the Romulans.
GUINAN: And the survivors?
PICARD: There were stories of prisoners taken back to Romulus, but these were only rumors.
GUINAN: No. There were survivors. And Tasha Yar was one of them.
PICARD: Guinan, that was twenty three years ago. Tasha Yar was only a child.
GUINAN: I know that. But I also know she was aboard that ship and she was not a child. And I think you sent her there.
PICARD: How can that be?
GUINAN: I don't know. I just know that you did.
PICARD: Tasha died, a year before you came on the Enterprise. You never met her.
GUINAN: I know that.
PICARD: If you have only a vague intuition
GUINAN: You can't just dismiss this. If I'm right, then you are responsible for this whole situation.
PICARD: I think that it's time I met Commander Sela.

[Ready room]
PICARD: When Gowron begins his attack, then we will make our move. Excalibur will fall back with engine problems. You will take the Akagi and the Hornet to this position, which will open a small gap in our detection net.
RIKER: And if the Romulans are already aware of the tachyon field, they should run the blockade at that point.
PICARD: Exactly. When they try to bring their ships through, the Enterprise and the Tian Nan Men will swing around, close the gap and catch them in the act.
RIKER: Very nice. I'd better get back.
PICARD: Good luck, Will.
RIKER: Good luck, Captain.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: Sir, the detection net is picking up activity from the Romulans. Fifteen cloaked ships spreading out along the border.
PICARD: Signal the fleet to stand by.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: There's a disruption in the tachyon detectors! It's localized to this segment of the net.
PICARD: Open a channel to the Sutherland.
DATA: Data here, sir.
PICARD: We're reading a disruption of the tachyon net in your area.
DATA: Yes, sir. The Romulans have released a high energy burst. The net is no longer effective in a radius of ten million kilometers around the Sutherland.
PICARD: That's where they're going through. Send a signal to the fleet. All ships to fall back and rendezvous at Gamma Eridon. We'll re-establish the net there.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: Captain, the Sutherland isn't heading for the rendezvous point. She's come to a full stop.
PICARD: Open a channel.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
DATA: Captain, I wish to submit myself for diskiplinary action. I have disobeyed a direct order from a superior officer. Although the result of my actions proved positive, the ends cannot justify the means.
PICARD: No, they can't. However, the claim 'I was only following orders' has been used to justify too many tragedies in our history. Starfleet doesn't want officers who will blindly follow orders without analyzing the situation. Your actions were appropriate for the circumstances, and I have noted that in your record.
PICARD: Mister Data. Nicely done.
DATA: Sir.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Apparently the Tamarians arrived at El-Adrel Four nearly three weeks ago. They have been transmitting a subspace signal towards Federation space ever since.
DATA: The signal is a standard mathematical progression. It does not carry a specific message.
RIKER: But they wanted us to know they were there.
PICARD: Apparently so, Number One. Starfleet believes that their presence is an attempt at communication. Commander.
DATA: Federation vessels have encountered Tamarian ships seven times over the past one hundred years. Each meeting went without incident, however formal relations were not established because communication was not possible.
RIKER: Why?
DATA: The Children of Tama were called incomprehensible by Captain Silvestri of the Shiku Maru. Other accounts were comparable.
WORF: A cause for concern. For all we know, they could be threatening our border.
TROI: Everything in the previous encounters suggests a peaceable race. We have to start from there.
PICARD: Agreed. I appreciate your prudence, Mister Worf, but Starfleet believes that the Tamarians have extended a hand. We must do the same.
RIKER: The Children of Tama. I've heard rumors about them for years.
PICARD: Indeed. Are they truly incomprehensible? In my experience, communication is a matter of patience, imagination. I would like to believe these are qualities we have in sufficient measure.

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: The positron density is point zero one three.

[Bridge]
WORF: Electron concentration seven point nine five. Particle gradient, four over seven. We are two hundred and fifty kilometers from the planet's surface.
DATA: Commander, the shuttle has reached the E region of the planet's ionosphere.
RIKER: How long can we maintain communication?
DATA: The scattering layer induced by the Tamarians is concentrated in the upper D region. The shuttle will reach that area in approximately two minutes.
RIKER: The Tamarian ship?
DATA: Unchanged, sir. They appear to be making no attempt to stop us.
RIKER: Maybe we called their bluff. Status, Mister Worf.
WORF: Navigational, life-support, propulsion normal.

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: Onboard systems do not appear to be disrupted by the field, but I can barely read you, Commander.
RIKER: Acknowledged. Maintain

[Bridge]
RIKER: Communications as long as conditions permit.
DATA: Commander. I am reading a power surge in the Tamarian plasma reactor.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf! Evasive maneuver sequence delta!

[Shuttlecraft]
RIKER: Maneuver sequence delta.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, the shuttle has been hit.
RIKER: Damage?
DATA: The starboard nacelle has been rendered inoperable.
RIKER: That's all? Riker to Worf.

[Shuttlecraft]
RIKER: Report.
WORF: Starboard thrusters destroyed. I may be able to land but I will not be able to take off.
RIKER: Understood. Return to the Enterprise, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Enough to turn them back, but not enough to hurt them.
DATA: Yes, sir. The phaser pulse appears to have been carefully attenuated for just that effect.
RIKER: Nice shooting.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: I'm pretty sure I can punch up the annular confinement beam enough to transport the captain through the field, but it's going to take me at least a full day to do it.
TROI: Captain Picard could be dead by then.
WORF: I do not believe so. I have confidence in his ability as a warrior. He will be victorious.
TROI: You're still assuming this is some sort of a challenge ritual. We can't be certain of that.
RIKER: Agreed. We're only making educated guesses about their motivations, no more than that.
WORF: Then why do we wait? If we attack the ship now, they will not be able to maintain their scattering field.
RIKER: Which might start a shooting match, and for all we know, a war, and we still might not be able to save the captain.
WORF: It would end this stalemate.
RIKER: It's too much of a risk. I'll take that course when it's the last one left. Who the hell are these people? There's got to be some way to get through to them.
DATA: As I have said, with further study it may be possible
RIKER: Then do it. Deanna, help him. I want something by oh nine hundred hours.

[Planet surface]
PICARD: Now, where have you gone to, my friend?
PICARD: Forgive the intrusion, Captain, but I need some answers.

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander, sensors are picking up an electromagnetic disturbance approaching the Captain's position.
RIKER: Analysis?
WORF: A variable induction field. Possibly a life form.
RIKER: How close is it to the Captain?
WORF: The field is erratic, appearing and disappearing, but it appears to be moving toward him.
RIKER: Attacking?

[Engineering]
RIKER: Riker to La Forge.
LAFORGE: La Forge here.
RIKER: How close are we on that transporter?
LAFORGE: Two hours, maybe three.
RIKER: I want the Captain out of there now.
LAFORGE: That's not very likely, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I don't want to hear that, Commander.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: But there's a good chance this isn't going to work.
WORF: If it fails
RIKER: I know. We will have tipped our hand to the Tamarians. But it's a chance we have to take.
WORF: Agreed.
RIKER: La Forge. Proceed.
LAFORGE: We're on it. La Forge out.
RIKER: Riker to transporter room one.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: O'Brien here, Commander.
RIKER: Stand by, Mister O'Brien.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Go ahead, Commander.
LAFORGE: Confirm phase sequencer linkage.
O'BRIEN: Link confirmed. Ready whenever you are, sir.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I've got a piece of him, Commander, but that's all.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Boost the confinement beam.

[Bridge]
WORF: The Tamarian and the entity are in close proximity. The Tamarian's lifesigns are fluctuating.
RIKER: The scattering field is still in full force. What the hell is wrong with them? Their sensors can read what's going on as well as ours can. Riker to O'Brien. Report.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: The field's still deflecting the signal. There just isn't enough of him, sir.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I can't hold him, Commander.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: Here's the situation on El-Adrel. The entity has moved off several hundred meters.
CRUSHER: Captain Picard's bioscan readings are stable. The Tamarian's are not.
TROI: He may be injured.
RIKER: If the entity decides to attack again, the Captain may be facing it alone.
LAFORGE: The transporter's out of the question. The Tamarian ship has deepened the scattering field to the D region of the ionosphere. There's no getting through.
WORF: Unless we attack the ship itself.
RIKER: Are you able to pinpoint the source of their particle beam?
LAFORGE: They're using a polarity coil generator located aft of their warp drive. It's pretty heavily shielded.
RIKER: Could we get through with our phasers?
LAFORGE: Not with the first spread. It'd take a couple of hits.
RIKER: That's not good enough. We need to knock out the scattering field in one shot and have the Captain back on the Enterprise before they know what happened.
LAFORGE: If we selectively target the amplification pathways around the generator, it should be just as effective. And we can do it in one burst.
RIKER: How long will it take to set up?
LAFORGE: Worf and I would have to adjust the pre-fire chamber. That'll give us the focus we need. A few hours?
RIKER: Make it so.
RIKER: I would prefer to find a peaceful solution. If we could talk our way out of this one, that much the better.
TROI: Unfortunately, it may not be that simple.
RIKER: What did you find out?
DATA: The Tamarian ego structure does not seem to allow what we normally think of as self-identity. Their ability to abstract is highly unusual. They seem to communicate through narrative imagery by reference to the individuals and places which appear in their mytho-historical accounts.
TROI: It's as if I were to say to you, Juliet on her balcony.
CRUSHER: An image of romance.
TROI: Exactly. Imagery is everything to the Tamarians. It embodies their emotional states, their very thought processes. It's how they communicate, and it's how they think.
RIKER: If we know how they think, shouldn't we be able to get something across to them?
DATA: No, sir. The situation is analogous to understanding the grammar of a language but none of the vocabulary.
CRUSHER: If I didn't know who Juliet was or what she was doing on that balcony, the image alone wouldn't have any meaning.
TROI: That's correct. For instance, we know that Darmok was a great hero, a hunter, and that Tanagra was an island, but that's it. Without the details, there's no understanding.
DATA: It is necessary for us to learn the narrative from which the Tamarians drawing their imagery. Given our current relations, that does not appear likely.

[Bridge]
WORF: Phasers nearly ready, sir.
RIKER: Stand by to fire, Mister Worf.
DATA: Commander. The Tamarian's bioscan is becoming unreadable. He may be dead, sir.
RIKER: If we know that, so do the Tamarians. Riker to La Forge.
LAFORGE: La Forge here.
RIKER: I need those phasers.
DATA: Sir, sensors are tracking the entity. It is approaching Captain Picard's position.

[Planet surface]
PICARD: I understand your sacrifice, Captain. Unfortunately, if our friend out there has its way, no one will ever know what you tried to do.

[Bridge]
DATA: Nine meters and closing. The energy output of the entity has doubled, Commander. Six meters.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge. You have phasers.
RIKER: Fire!
WORF: Their particle beam emitters are inoperative, sir.
DATA: Scattering field is down, sir.
RIKER: O'Brien, energize.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: We got him, Commander.

[Ready room]
RIKER: I hope I'm not intruding, Captain.
PICARD: No, of course not, Number One. Please.
RIKER: Damage reports ready for your review.
PICARD: Thank you.
RIKER: Greek, sir?
PICARD: Oh, the Homeric Hymns. One of the root metaphors of our own culture.
RIKER: For the next time we encounter the Tamarians?
PICARD: More familiarity with our own mythology might help us to relate to theirs. The Tamarian was willing to risk all of us just for the hope of communication, connection. Now the door is open between our peoples. That commitment meant more to him than his own life. Thank you, Number One.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We're receiving an emergency distress signal from the Solarion Four colony.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: The transfer of a new officer to the Enterprise?
PICARD: Negative
RIKER: Well, we've got one, waiting to beam aboard complete with orders.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Any indications of weapons or vessels beneath the surface?
RIKER: The composition of the moon's crust is blocking the sensors.
PICARD: Which is very likely why they chose this moon for their base of operations.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, sensors indicate a disturbance near the outpost on Melona Four.
PICARD: What kind of disturbance?
WORF: I cannot tell. We are still too far away. It could be an electrical storm.
PICARD: See if you can contact the colony.
WORF: Aye, sir. Captain, there is no response from Melona colony, but the disturbance in the atmosphere is increasing.
PICARD: How far are we?
WORF: At current speed, twenty seven hours.
PICARD: Bridge to La Forge.
LAFORGE: La Forge here, Captain.
PICARD: Are you picking up any readings from Melona?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Something strange is going on. There are violent disruptions in the atmosphere.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign, increase to warp eight.

[Melona colony]
RIKER: Come on, keep moving.

[Cave]
CRUSHER: Watch your step but keep moving.
RIKER: Let's go, let's go. Keep moving. Deeper into the cave. Come on. Deeper into the cave. Keep moving.
RIKER: How much protection will this cave give us?
DATA: The refractory metal in the rock formations may act as an effective barrier.
RIKER: Let's seal off this entrance.
CRUSHER: Let's hope there's enough air in here.
RIKER: There's got to be a ventilation source somewhere. We need some light.
RIKER: How are the others?
CRUSHER: Just scrapes and bruises, I think. I'll check further. Where's Carmen?
RIKER: She didn't make it. She was trying to save an old man who'd fallen.
CRUSHER: I'm sorry.
RIKER: I think we're going to be all right in here. I'm not sure about the air supply, so stay put, don't move around. Don't expend unnecessary energy. With any luck, we'll be able to wait this thing out.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Riker to Enterprise.
DATA: Commander, the refractory metals in the rock strata may also interfere with communication.
RIKER: Data we've only seen the Crystalline Entity once before. How do you know these metals will protect us?
DATA: I am not entirely certain they will, sir.
RIKER: I was afraid you were going to say something like that.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, the disturbance on Melona is becoming more intense.
PICARD: Keep hailing them. All channels, Mister Worf.
TROI: Captain, the fact that they're not responding doesn't necessarily mean there's anything wrong. The atmospheric disturbance could be jamming the signal.
PICARD: I know, Counselor.
WORF: Still no response, sir.
PICARD: Increase to warp nine. How long, Mister Worf?
WORF: Six hours.

[Cave]
CRUSHER: I've got one man unconscious. We can't stay in here much longer.
RIKER: If I open that entrance and it's still out there, we're dead.
CRUSHER: If we all stay in here, we're dead.
DATA: It has been over an hour since we heard the Entity, sir. It may be gone.
RIKER: Or it may be out there waiting for us.
RIKER: Everybody stay here.
WORF: Commander? Commander Riker, are you there?
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, I don't think I've ever seen a more beautiful sight.
LAFORGE: It's good to see you're all right, Commander. What's happened here?
RIKER: The Crystalline Entity paid us a visit. We lost two colonists, but we got the rest in here.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 45122.3. We have notified Starfleet Command of our intention to pursue and investigate the Crystalline Entity. To that end, we have been joined by Doctor Kila Marr, a xenologist who has made studying the Entity her life's work.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: It's still headed for the Brechtian Cluster. We've re-established our course.
PICARD: Very well. Oh, one thing, Number One. Starfleet will be notifying Carmen Davila's family of her death and returning her personal effects. Would you care to enclose a letter?
RIKER: Yes, sir. I'd like that very much.
PICARD: Is there something more, Number One?
RIKER: Permission to speak freely, sir?
PICARD: Of course.
RIKER: I've been thinking maybe Doctor Marr is right. Maybe we should destroy the Entity.
PICARD: Why do you think that?
RIKER: It's already killed thousands. It will undoubtedly continue to kill unless we stop it. I don't want those deaths on my conscience.
PICARD: Are you sure that that's it, Number One, or are you being influenced by personal feelings?
RIKER: With all due respect, sir, I'm not a raw cadet. I've lost people on missions before. If we take time to try to communicate with this thing, we may lose our chance to destroy it. And I don't think we can risk that. I think I'll go write that letter to Carmen's family.

[Ten Forward]
O'BRIEN: If it's a boy, Michael, after my father.
KEIKO: Wait a minute. We decided on Hiro, after my father.
O'BRIEN: We talked about this last night.
KEIKO: That's right, and we decided on Hiro.
RIKER: Wait. I've got it. William. It's a great name. William O'Brien. It's got a nice ring to it.
KEIKO: It's all right. He's just doing somersaults. Here, feel.
KEIKO: Right there.
RIKER: He's going to be a hell of a gymnast.
DATA: May I?
KEIKO: Sure. There, feel it? When he's not turning, he's kicking and punching. When I want to sleep, he wants to wake up. At this point, I just wish it were over.
O'BRIEN: I have to go. I've got a transporter simulation on the bridge. Bye-bye, Michael.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: No.
CRUSHER: Come on, Geordi.
LAFORGE: No.
CRUSHER: Just try it once. It is not as hard as you think. I'm telling you, you will be terrific.
LAFORGE: All right. I am the very model of a modern major general, I've information vegetable, animal and mineral. I can't do this.
CRUSHER: Yes you can!
LAFORGE: I cannot sing in front of people.
CRUSHER: You were terrific! You were a little off pitch, but I think I can take care of that. Okay, La Forge as a modern major general.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Okay. Clear the power shunt.
CRUSHER: The shunt is cleared.
LAFORGE: Right. And bypass the flow current, and . The computer still won't release the doors.
CRUSHER: Can we force them open?
LAFORGE: Yes, we can try. There's an emergency hand actuator.
CRUSHER: Geordi?
LAFORGE: Yes?
CRUSHER: This wall is hot.
LAFORGE: Where?
LAFORGE: I'm all right, but I think we've got a new problem. One of the energy conduits must've ruptured and ignited the polyduranide inside the bulkhead. That's a plasma fire.
CRUSHER: It's putting out a lot of radiation. We can't stay in here very long.
LAFORGE: We've got a bigger problem than that. The quaratum in these containers is used in emergency thruster packs. It's normally pretty stable stuff but when you expose quaratum to radiation, it has a way of exploding.

[Jefferies tube]
RIKER: Thirteen sixty five baker. That should put us right behind shuttlebay two.
DATA: That is correct, sir. We have approximately fifty two meters remaining in this crawlway before we can safely exit into a main corridor.
RIKER: Coolant leak!

[Cargo bay]
CRUSHER: We can withstand this level of radiation for another three or four hours without any permanent damage. We'll need a few days of hyronalin treatments.
LAFORGE: What are the radiation levels in the quaratum?
CRUSHER: They're at eighty three rads and rising at a rate of about four rads per minute.
LAFORGE: That stuff gets unstable at around three hundred and fifty rads. I still haven't been able to get any power to this transporter.
CRUSHER: The radiation levels is about twenty percent lower at this end of the bay. Let's move the containers over to here.
LAFORGE: That's a good idea. It should buy us some time. You know we're going to have to do this by hand. With all the radiation floating around in here we can't trust the antigrav units.

[Jefferies tube]
DATA: Commander, the current cannot be off down from this relay box.
RIKER: We can't just sit here.
DATA: If the energy flowing through that arc were interrupted by a nonconductive material, it is likely the circuit would be broken.
RIKER: I don't see any material in here that could handle that much current.
DATA: Commander, much of my bodyframe is made up of tripolymers, a non conductive material.
RIKER: Are you suggesting we use your own body?
DATA: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Data, there's half a million amps flowing through that arc. Could your body handle that much current?
DATA: The power surge would cause a system failure in my internal processors and melt my primary power couplings. However, there is a chance that the damage would not be irreparable.
RIKER: No.
DATA: Commander, our options are very limited.
RIKER: First of all, android or not, I wouldn't ask anyone to take that kind of risk. Second, if the computer is not working in Engineering, I'm going to need your help to get control of the ship.
DATA: My positronic brain has several layers of shielding to protect me from power surges. It would be possible for you to remove my cranial unit and take it with you.
RIKER: Let me get this straight. You want me to take off your head?
DATA: Yes, sir. Is something wrong, sir?
RIKER: Well, Data, would you be all right?
DATA: My memory core and neural nets are self-contained. I would be fine, sir.
RIKER: Well, like you said, our choices are very limited.
RIKER: Data? Data! Data.
DATA: A remarkable experience, Commander.
RIKER: Are you all right? Did the shielding work?
DATA: Apparently so, sir. My neural nets are still fully operational. You may begin by opening the ventral access panel located two centimeters beneath my right ear.

[Cargo bay]
CRUSHER: The levels are still rising. There must be some way to put that fire out.
LAFORGE: The energy's being fed by the ship's internal power grid and we can't even get near that. The only way to stop it would be to eliminate its supply of oxygen. Wait a minute. Doctor, I've got an idea. It's kind or wild, but we just might be able to kill two birds with one stone.
CRUSHER: Let's hear it.
LAFORGE: Okay. We open the external door. That would depressurize the cargo bay and suck all of those containers out into space. At the same time, the lack of oxygen should put out the plasma fire.
CRUSHER: What about us?
LAFORGE: We just need to find something in here to hold onto while the air is evacuating. Then, we close the door, repressurize the bay.
CRUSHER: What about this?
LAFORGE: Yeah, that ought to do it.

[Ten Forward]
KEIKO: There that should do it.
WORF: There will be a sharp pain as I set the bone. Prepare yourself. Good. Good, you bore that well.
WORF: Keiko?
KEIKO: I'm all right. I think.
WORF: Perhaps you should lie down.
KEIKO: Oh, oh, oh. I'm having contractions.
WORF: I believe that is not uncommon in the late months of pregnancy.
KEIKO: No, I mean contractions. I'm going into labor.
WORF: You cannot. This this is not a good time, Keiko.
KEIKO: It's not open for debate. Like it or not, this baby is coming.

[Ten Forward]
WORF: Your contractions are now only thirty seconds apart. Dilation has gone to seven centimeters since the onset of labor. That did not take long.
KEIKO: That's easy for you to say.
WORF: You are doing very well. I am sure the child will arrive soon.
KEIKO: Worf, has the baby turned?
WORF: Turned?
KEIKO: So the head is down. Doctor Crusher told me a few days ago that it hadn't. She wasn't worried because I still had a month to go.
WORF: I am not certain. Can't you tell?
KEIKO: Worf, have you ever done this before?, delivered a baby?
WORF: Yes. No. I have taken the Starfleet Emergency Medical Course. In a computerized simulation, I assisted in the delivery of a human baby.
KEIKO: Sometimes it doesn't go by the book, Worf.
WORF: I am sure everything will be fine.

[Cargo bay]
CRUSHER: Once the air is vented, the first thing you'll feel is extreme pressure in your lungs. You have to resist the temptation to exhale. Next, our hands and feet will get cold, then numb, and some of the capillaries on exposed sections of the skin may burst.
LAFORGE: Sounds like fun.
CRUSHER: We will have about fifteen seconds of useful consciousness, then about ten seconds of extreme disorientation, then we pass out.
LAFORGE: Okay. Once the air is evacuated, one of us is going to need to get to that panel to repressurize the bay.
LAFORGE: We're ready. Are you okay?

[Engineering]
RIKER: Okay, try it.
DATA: Very good, Commander. You have established a connection. I can now raise the door.
RIKER: There's no power on this entire deck, yet somehow these monitors are working.
DATA: The power reaching those monitors has been diverted from the Bridge, sir.
RIKER: But why? Unless there's something they want us something they need us to see. Wait a minute. Data, the containment field strength is down to eighteen percent. Can you stabilize it?
DATA: No, sir. I do not have access to the containment field. You will have to establish a new link. Locate the ODN conduit, sir.
RIKER: Got it.
DATA: Yes, sir. You must now change the input matrix in my secondary optical port and then connect the ODN conduit.
DATA: That is not the correct port, sir.
RIKER: Sorry.
DATA: You must hurry, Commander. The containment field has dropped to sixteen percent.
RIKER: I'm trying. You need a bigger head.
DATA: The field continues to drop, sir. Collapse is imminent.
RIKER: Try it now.
DATA: I have a connection, sir. I am now stabilizing the containment field.

[Ten Forward]
WORF: Congratulations. You are fully dilated to ten centimeters. You may now give birth.
KEIKO: That's what I've been doing.
WORF: Bearing down is the next stage. It should start at full dilation. Why has it not begun?
KEIKO: I don't know. I don't think it's up to me. It happens when it happens.
WORF: The computer simulation was not like this. That delivery was very orderly.
KEIKO: Well, I'm sorry!
WORF: Did you feel an uncontrollable urge to push?
WORF: Good. You are bearing down. Now you must push with each contraction and I must urge you gently but firmly to push harder. Push, Keiko. Push hard. Push, Keiko. Push. Push.
KEIKO: I am pushing!
WORF: The baby is emerging head first. One more contraction.
KEIKO: Okay.
WORF: That's good. Push. Push. Hard. I have the baby. I will smack the child to induce breathing.
WORF: Now I will cut the umbilical cord. Blanket. I believe she looks like Chief O'Brien.
KEIKO: Hello. You were wonderful, Worf. I couldn't have done it without you. Hello.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We are en route to Starbase sixty seven, to undergo repairs. Life aboard the Enterprise is slowly returning to normal.

[Bridge]
RIKER: It's starting to get busy around here. Five new science teams just beamed in from the Zhukov. Quarters are filling up fast.
PICARD: On top of everything, there's been a change. We've been given only two weeks to complete the exploration.
RIKER: Two weeks? That's not enough time to explore a region that size. I thought we had five weeks.
DATA: Commander, Starfleet has added a diplomatic mission to Oceanus Four.
PICARD: Will, I'm leaving it up to you to make sure that all science departments have an equal chance of completing their research.
RIKER: That'll be quite a juggling act.
PICARD: Oh, and one piece of good news.. We're to rendezvous with a shuttlecraft carrying Wesley Crusher. He's on vacation from the Academy.
RIKER: Wesley? Good. We'll need an extra hand around here.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Chocolate ice cream, chocolate fudge and chocolate chips. You're not depressed, are you?
TROI: I'm fine, Commander.
RIKER: Would you like me to leave you two alone?
TROI: No, you can join us.
RIKER: No, thanks. I don't like fudge.
TROI: Really? I never met a chocolate I didn't like.
RIKER: Doesn't it taste good?
TROI: Of course it does, but it's not just a matter of taste. It's the whole experience. First of all, you have to spoon the fudge around the rim, leaving only ice cream in the middle. Then, you gently spoon the ice cream around the sides, like you're sculpting it. Relish every bite. Make every one an event. And then, with the last spoonful, close your eyes.
RIKER: I had no idea it was such a ritual.
TROI: Chocolate is a serious thing.
RIKER: I brought something back from Risa. Better than chocolate.
TROI: Oh? What is it?
RIKER: Just a game.

[Transporter room]
WESLEY: Chief O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: Welcome back, Wesley.
WESLEY: Congratulations on little Molly.
O'BRIEN: Thanks you. Wait till you see her. She's the spitting image of her dad.
WESLEY: So, where is everybody? Is my mom around?
O'BRIEN: The senior staff is in a meeting. You're supposed to go to your mother's quarters.
WESLEY: Oh. Do you think it'd be all right if I dropped in just to say hi?
O'BRIEN: I'll check. Chief O'Brien to Bridge.
WORF: Bridge here.
O'BRIEN: Wesley Crusher has arrived and wants to know if he can stop by the Observation lounge to say hi.
WORF: I suppose that is acceptable.
WESLEY: Thanks.

[Corridor]
DATA: Have you found the Academy challenging, Wesley?
WESLEY: Yeah. I thought after being on the Enterprise, it would be a breeze, but there's a lot more to learn than just starship operations. What was your first year like?
DATA: Although I did extremely well scholastically, my lack of human understanding often created social obstacles.
WESLEY: Like what?
DATA: I particularly remember the phenomenon of practical jokes, several of which I fell victim to.
WESLEY: Tell me about it. My first week that I was there, this guy named Adam Martoni reprogrammed the sonic shower to cover me with mud. It took me a while, but I got him back really good.
DATA: Good for you.
WESLEY: Thanks.
DATA: I also found social gatherings difficult. There was one event, an Academy tradition, the Sadie Hawkins Dance?
WESLEY: They still hold it, every year.
DATA: A notably awkward experience.
WESLEY: I know what you mean. I can't even dance.
DATA: Really? Your mother is quite an expert. She recently taught me.
WESLEY: The Dancing Doctor? She tried to teach me too, but I just don't have the knack.
DATA: I would be happy to teach you dancing. I have programmed a comprehensive seventeen part course with some interesting holographic partners.
WESLEY: I'll let you know.

[Bridge]
DATA: Geordi, a conflict has started between the planetary evolution team and the stellar physicists. Each wishes to be the first to use the thermal imaging array.
LAFORGE: Well, tell them to flip a coin. We've got to work together on this mission, otherwise we're never going to get it done.
DATA: A coin. Very good. I will replicate one immediately.
CRUSHER: Doctor Crusher to Data.
DATA: Data here.
CRUSHER: Do you have a minute to join me in Sickbay? I need your help with something.
DATA: Yes, Doctor. On my way.

[Ready room]
WESLEY: Let's see. I have Novakovich for anthropology and Horne for creative writing.
PICARD: Walter Horne? Is he still teaching?
WESLEY: Yeah, he is. And he's good too. And you'll be pleased to know I took your advice. The first week that I was there, I went and met Boothby.
PICARD: How is old Boothby? I hope he didn't tell you a lot of stories about me.
WESLEY: He didn't remember you, sir. At first. I found an old yearbook photo and he remembered you right away. He said he's very proud of you that you're Captain of the Enterprise.
PICARD: Is he still tending grounds, or have the years finally caught up with him?
WESLEY: Not that I can tell. He took me on a grand tour of the place. He showed me every single blade of grass, practically.
PICARD: I had the very same tour.
WESLEY: Sir, what do the initials A F stand for?
PICARD: AF?
WESLEY: Boothby said he caught you carving those initials into his prized elm tree.
PICARD: AF. Just an acquaintance of mine. Wesley, if you meet someone whose initials you might want to carve into that elm tree, don't let it interfere with your studies. I failed organic chemistry because of AF.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Doctor.
CRUSHER: I need you in Sickbay immediately.
PICARD: On my way.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: He came in complaining of a servo malfunction but my scans came out negative. Then he just collapsed.
PICARD: What have you found?
CRUSHER: His biosystems and positronic functions seem to check out, and his power cells are active.
LAFORGE: From what I can tell, his higher functions are intact, but the signals aren't getting from his brain to the rest of his body. It's like he's in a coma.
RIKER: Data performs self diagnostic routines on a regular basis. We should take a look at his logs. They may reveal something.
LAFORGE: I recommend going through his quarters, as well. You never know what we might find.
PICARD: Agreed. Continue the analysis. Keep me informed.

[Data's quarters]
RIKER: Standard security sweep shows nothing out of the ordinary.
LAFORGE: Personal logs, diagnostics, duty logs, they all appear normal. There's no evidence of anything that could lead to Data's shutdown.
RIKER: Maybe we should ask his cat.
LAFORGE: I guess I'd better get back to Sickbay, see if there's any change in his condition.
RIKER: Doctor Crusher's got everything under control, Geordi. If there's any change, you'll be the first to know.
LAFORGE: I guess so.
RIKER: Looks to me like you need a break. Unwind a little.
LAFORGE: Yeah, maybe you're right.
RIKER: I've got just the thing. Why don't you join me in Ten Forward? There's something I'd like you to try.

[Crusher's quarters]
WESLEY: Mom?
CRUSHER: Wesley.
WESLEY: What are you doing?
CRUSHER: I'm embarrassed to say. This was meant for you. But it was so much fun, I couldn't resist.
WESLEY: What is it?
CRUSHER: It's a game. Riker brought it back from Risa. Everybody's playing it. Want to try?
WESLEY: Maybe later. How's Data?
CRUSHER: Geordi's still working on him. He's going to be fine.
WESLEY: I think I should go give him a hand.
CRUSHER: No. Wesley, you are on vacation. You have done enough already.
WESLEY: Yeah, maybe you're right. Computer, increase light level.
CRUSHER: Are you in a hurry?
WESLEY: Yeah, I'm late for a dinner date.
CRUSHER: Really. With who?
WESLEY: Robin Lefler from Engineering.
CRUSHER: Why don't you invite her here? We can all play the game together. I can replicate a couple more.
WESLEY: Mom.
CRUSHER: Sorry. It's just that I want to spend some time together while you're here.
WESLEY: We'll have time together. I promise.
CRUSHER: Okay.
WESLEY: Okay.
CRUSHER: Just one game. Come on, try it on for size.
WESLEY: Mom! I really need to get ready.
CRUSHER: Have a good time.
WESLEY: Thanks. I will.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
WESLEY: Sorry to bother you, sir.
PICARD: It's no bother, Wesley. Please, sit down.
WESLEY: Thanks.
PICARD: How are the survey preparations coming along?
WESLEY: They're coming along fine, but that's not what I'm here to talk to you about.
PICARD: What then?
WESLEY: There's a game going around. It's something that Commander Riker brought back from Risa. It's a device that hooks around the ears.
PICARD: Yes, I've seen it.
WESLEY: I did some preliminary tests on the game, and what I found leads me to believe that it may have some harmful side-effects. Specifically, sir, I think it's psychotropically addictive.
PICARD: Addictive? What have you discovered?
WESLEY: The game initiates a serotonin cascade in the frontal lobe of the brain. Now I know that's nothing conclusive, but it could explain why everyone is so attracted to it. And at the same time, it stimulates the brain's reasoning center. I don't know what that's all about.
PICARD: I'll start an investigation immediately. Thank you, Mister Crusher.
WESLEY: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Wesley? It's good to have you back again.

[Bridge]
WORF: We've reached the designated coordinates, Captain. There is a ship bearing three two seven mark one five two on an intercept course.
PICARD: Advise them of our status, Mister Worf. Go. Replicate what you need, and see that the devices are properly distributed. Not forgetting Mister Crusher.

[Turbolift]
WESLEY: Deck thirty six.
OGAWA: Wesley, at what level are you?
WESLEY: I'm only level ten.
OGAWA: I'm at level forty seven.
WESLEY: That's great.
OGAWA: You know what the secret is, don't you? Don't force it. If you just let the game happen, it almost plays itself.
WESLEY: I'll try that.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Computer, activate security containment field. Deck thirty six, section fifty two.
WESLEY: Computer transport program Crusher One.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Riker to Bridge. We lost Crusher. It appears he rigged a site-to-site transport.
PICARD: Security alert, condition three. Computer, shut down all transporter systems and shuttlebays. Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: I can't track him, sir. He's done something to the internal security sensors. I'll try bypassing his subcommands. Hold on. I'm picking up a piece of his trail, sir. Sensors show power activation in transporter room three. That would put him somewhere on deck six.
PICARD: Seal off deck six. Activate security fields sections twenty three through twenty nine.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Where the hell is he?
WORF: I am attempting to isolate him with thermal sensors.
RIKER: Narrow the scan field. Go deck by deck if you have to.
WORF: Unfortunately, he knows our procedures. He will avoid corridors and public areas. Commander, an unidentified heat source. Deck seven, section twenty three. There.

[Jefferies tube]
WESLEY: No! Let go of me!

[Bridge]
WORF: Has just entered the establishment.
RIKER: Is that Melor Famagal I hear?
WORF: It is.
RIKER: I'm on my way.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Any signs of life, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Negative, Commander.
TROI: The Romulans could have a cloaked base on the surface.
RIKER: Or anywhere else along the Neutral Zone.
WORF: Sir, a coded subspace signal from Romulus. It's the Captain.
TROI: What?
RIKER: Maintain position at Galorndon Core. Diplomatic initiative appears to be succeeding. Will advise.
WORF: The message did employ the proper coded sequence.
RIKER: Yeah. I'm sure it did.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, sensors are picking up three vessels crossing the Neutral Zone. Vulcan ships.
TROI: Vulcan?
RIKER: What's their heading, Mister Worf?
WORF: One four three mark zero one two.
LAFORGE: That would put them on a course to Vulcan. They don't seem to be in any hurry. They're only moving at warp one, Commander.
RIKER: Worf, signal them on subspace. Request their status. Geordi, see if you can tell if it's one of ships we've been looking for.
WORF: They say they are escorting a peace envoy from Romulus to Vulcan. They request that we monitor Federation subspace channels. Ambassador Spock will be making an announcement shortly.
TROI: Perhaps his reunification talks were successful.
RIKER: Geordi?
LAFORGE: None of the transponder signatures matches that of the missing ship. They could have been altered. I'll keep checking.
RIKER: Set a course to intercept.
WORF: Sir, the Captain's orders were to maintain
RIKER: I know the Captain's orders, Lieutenant. Engage.

[Bridge]
WORF: The Vulcan defense vessels are also responding. The Romulan force is retreating toward the Neutral Zone.
RIKER: They're not taking those Vulcan ships home with them.
WORF: Visual range, Commander.
RIKER: On screen.
LAFORGE: Romulan warbird decloaking alongside the Vulcan ships.
RIKER: Red alert.
RIKER: Advise the warbird to withdraw from Federation space, and tell them to leave the Vulcan ships where they are.
WORF: The warbird is powering up its forward disruptor array.
RIKER: Ready phasers.
LAFORGE: There were over two thousand Romulan troops on board those ships.
TROI: They destroyed their own invasion force.
RIKER: Rather than let them be taken prisoner. Stand down Red alert. Mister Worf, advise the Klingon ship to signal us as soon as Captain Picard and Data are safely aboard.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: We'll be coming into orbit of Vulcan in less than an hour, Captain.
PICARD: We should tell Sarek's wife of our plans.
RIKER: Already been taken care of. She's transporting over at oh seven hundred.
PICARD: And Sarek?
RIKER: She says he's too ill to make the trip.
PICARD: The man is dying. And it's my honor to tell him that his son may have betrayed the Federation.
RIKER: How well do you know Spock?
PICARD: I met him once. What I know of him comes from history books, and of course my mind meld with his father.
RIKER: That must cover a lot of ground.
PICARD: Not as much as you'd imagine. Sarek and Spock. Well, sometimes, fathers and sons.
RIKER: Understood.
PICARD: Oh, one other thing. Take a look at this. Turned up during an intelligence sweep.
RIKER: Metal fragments.
PICARD: What do you make of it?
RIKER: Possibly disassembled components, identified as Vulcan, recovered from a downed Ferengi vessel?
PICARD: They were found in crates marked Medical Supplies.
RIKER: Contraband.
PICARD: It's been sent to Vulcan for identification. Starfleet have requested that we lend a hand.

[Cargo bay]
RIKER: The Vulcans haven't figure out what these fragments are but they've determined that the metal is a dentarium alloy.
LAFORGE: That pretty well indicates that they're Vulcan. And dentarium also means that whatever this was, it was originally designed for use in space. From the look of the damage, it must've been a high speed impact.
RIKER: Yeah. A Ferengi cargo ship that went down in the Hanolin asteroid belt. The debris was spread over a hundred square kilometers.
LAFORGE: Could it be a weapons array?
RIKER: That was my first thought, but the Vulcans have no record of any stolen weapons or stolen parts, for that matter.
LAFORGE: This is going to be like putting together a big jigsaw puzzle when you don't know even know what the picture's supposed to be.
RIKER: Yep.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: They're not removable, are they, Data?
DATA: Removable?
CRUSHER: Your ears.
DATA: No, Doctor. They are fully integrated components.
CRUSHER: We'll have to do some molds of his ears as well.
PICARD: What about his skin color?
CRUSHER: We'll have to do some tests on his skin pigmentation. Changing it to appear Romulan shouldn't be too difficult. We just have to make sure we can change it back again afterwards. Your right eye is point zero zero four higher than your left.
PICARD: Nobody's perfect, Doctor, but
CRUSHER: If you want a proper fit to your prosthetic, trust your tailor.
PICARD: Anything from Gowron?
RIKER: No, sir. But after your tailor is done, would you join me in the cargo bay? Mister La Forge has made some progress with the metal fragments.
CRUSHER: These two still have an appointment with Mister Mott to have their hairpieces designed.
PICARD: Thirty minutes, Number One.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: What we seem to have here is a navigational deflector array. Or at least what's left of one.
RIKER: Why would anyone want a Vulcan shield array?
LAFORGE: Beats me, Commander. Every question we answer here seems to bring up two more.
PICARD: You're certain this is Vulcan?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Metallurgical analysis confirmed that and by running a molecular pattern trace, we were actually able to identify the ship as T'Pau. It was decommissioned years ago and sent to the surplus depot at Qualor Two. As far as anybody knows it's still there.
WORF: Worf to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Yes, Lieutenant?
WORF: A Klingon vessel is decloaking off our port bow. Compliments of Gowron.
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you convey my gratitude to the Captain and advise him that Mister Data and I will be transporting over shortly.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: I'd like to take the Enterprise to Qualor Two, sir. See what's out there.
PICARD: Agreed. Thank you, Mister La Forge.

[Klingon quarters]
PICARD: Well, Mister Data? What do you think?
DATA: I would not have thought it possible, sir. I am eager to test the success of our efforts. It does remain to be seen if the Romulans will accept us. Captain, you have seemed unusually pensive since we received the news of Ambassador Sarek's death.
PICARD: Sarek and I share a particular bond. Our lives touched in an unusual way. I admit I feel the effects of his death. The tenor of this mission has changed, Mister Data, at least it has for me. We were sent to confront Spock about his disappearance. Now, I also have to tell him that his father is dead.
DATA: I do not entirely understand, sir. As a Vulcan, Ambassador Spock would simply see death as the logical result of his father's illness.
PICARD: It's never quite that simple, not even for a Vulcan. Certainly not for Spock who is half-human. Years spent in conflict. And now the chance to resolve all of those differences is gone.
DATA: Considering the exceptionally long lifespan of Vulcans, it does seem odd that Sarek and Spock did not choose to resolve those differences in the time allowed.
PICARD: Father and son. Both proud, both stubborn, more alike than either of them were prepared to admit. A lifetime spent building emotional barriers. They're very difficult to break down. And now the time has come, it's too late. It's a difficult moment. It's a lonely one. It's a moment Spock is about to face.

[Romulan street]
DATA: This is definitely the street on which the intelligence scan of Spock and Pardek was taken, sir. Adjusting for the optical distortions, I am able to verify the architectural features.
PICARD: Where were they standing? Data, you're moving about in a very, well, android way.
DATA: I am sorry, Captain. I will be more careful.
PICARD: Don't call me Captain.
DATA: I understand, sir. I have found the place where they were standing.
PICARD: Where?
DATA: It is here, at this doorway. A legal intercessor's office. The name is similar to Pardek's. It would appear to be one of his relatives.
PICARD: He's not open for business yet.
DATA: Nonetheless, I recommend we keep this location under observation. I have clearly determined Pardek's routine. On days when the Senate is not in session, he invariably comes to this section after the median hour.
PICARD: Very well. Let's sample the local cuisine, shall we?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I'm afraid the numbers coming in are already indicating climatic changes, Commander.
RIKER: What kind of drop can we expect?
DATA: If the Pentharan spheral forecasts are correct, ten to twelve degrees Celsius within the first ten days.
LAFORGE: If it continues like that, their entire ecozystem will be shot to hell.
RIKER: And I doubt they're prepared to cope with the kind of cold that's coming.
PICARD: Commander Riker.
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Would you join me on the bridge, please.
RIKER: Right away, sir.
PICARD: Are you certain, Mister Worf?
WORF: There was a space-time distortion, sir, and there is something back there. We passed within three hundred kilometers of it.
PICARD: It's too close to be a coincidence. Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Yes, Captain?
PICARD: Would a delay of one hour affect your plans?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Not unless another asteroid decides to pay a call on Penthara, sir.
DATA: The odds of that occurring, Captain, are extremely unlikely, given the time frame.
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Open a channel, Mister Worf, and prepare to fire at target one.
WORF: The computer has locked in phaser depth calculations.
RIKER: Mister Data?
DATA: Ready, sir.
RIKER: Fire.

[Engineering]
DATA: Target one is emitting two thousand cubic meters per second.

[Engineering]
RIKER: What have you got?
DATA: No change, sir.

[Pentara Science lab]
RIKER: How are the surface winds, Geordi?
LAFORGE: Holding steady, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: The computer has stopped drilling.
RIKER: You should be getting something

[Engineering]
RIKER: Now, Data.
DATA: Elevated CO2 levels at twenty kilometers, sir.
LAFORGE: Now you're

[Ready room]
PICARD: The good news.
DATA: The motion of the dust has created a great deal of electrostatic energy in the upper atmosphere. With a modified phaser blast, we could create a shock front that would encircle the planet and ionize the particles.
PICARD: That would be like striking a spark in a gas-filled room.
DATA: With one exception, sir. The particles would be converted into a high energy plasma which our shields could absorb and then re-direct harmlessly into space.
PICARD: Turn the Enterprise into a lightning rod?
DATA: Precisely, sir.
PICARD: And the bad news?
DATA: If our phaser discharge is off by as little as point zero six terawatts, it would cause a cascading exothermal inversion.
PICARD: Meaning?
DATA: We would completely burn off the planet's atmosphere.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. While Doctor Moseley takes La Forge's plan to the leaders of the colony, I find myself weighing the potential consequences of a more philosophical issue.

[Corridor]
WORF: Did you enjoy going to school on Earth?
ALEXANDER: Yes.
WORF: Did you like your teachers?
ALEXANDER: Yes.
WORF: Good. I understand you lived in my old room.
ALEXANDER: Ah ha.
WORF: Good.

[Bridge]
TROI: Worf. I was just talking with Mrs. Kyle the primary school teacher. She told me you enrollled Alexander in her class this morning.
WORF: Yes.
TROI: I'm sure he'll do very well. She's a wonderful teacher.
WORF: Good.
TROI: Did she tell you about the father-son field trip this afternoon?
WORF: Yes. We cannot attend.
TROI: Why not?
WORF: I have a personnel review scheduled at thirteen hundred hours.
TROI: This would be a good opportunity for you to meet some of the other students and parents.
WORF: I might be able to reschedule the review.
TROI: Good. I'll let them know you're coming.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: A Klingon's honor is more important to him than his life. A Klingon would gladly face the most horrible punishment rather than bring shame or disgrace to his family name. His word is his bond. Without it, he is nothing. Do you understand?
WORF: Why did you lie to me?
ALEXANDER: I don't know.
WORF: Did you fear the punishment you would receive?
ALEXANDER: I don't know.
WORF: You don't know why you lied, and yet you did. You don't know why you stole, and yet you did! Alexander, come here. When I was a child, younger than you, I lost my parents, my family, my people. Everything I had was taken from me except my sense of honor. It was the one thing I had which was truly Klingon and which no one could take away. Do you know who they are?
ALEXANDER: Kahless?
WORF: And his brother, Morath. They fought for twelve days and twelve nights because Morath had broken his word and brought shame to his family. When you lie or steal, you not only dishonor yourself, but your family. You dishonor me.
ALEXANDER: I'm sorry, Father. I won't do it ever again. I promise.
WORF: I accept your word. We will not speak of this matter again.

[Corridor]
TROI: Worf.
WORF: Counselor?
TROI: I just wanted to know how the field trip went yesterday.
WORF: You have not heard?
TROI: No. Why?

[Turbolift]
WORF: Bridge. There was an incident. Alexander stole a small model and then told a falsehood. But I have remedied the situation.
TROI: May I ask how?
WORF: I pointed out his error, told him about Kahless and Morath, and explained the value of honor. The boy understood.
TROI: I see. Sometimes these things aren't over as quickly as they seem to be. I'd be happy to help if you have any further problems.
WORF: Thank you, that will not be necessary. Alexander will not repeat this mistake.

[Holodeck]
WORF: Computer, freeze program.
ALEXANDER: Did you see it, Father? I won.
WORF: Yes, I saw. Why are you here?
ALEXANDER: I'm training.
WORF: But you did not ask permission to take my bat'leth, or permission to use the holodeck.
ALEXANDER: You said you wanted me to be a warrior.
WORF: I also said I wanted you to obey your teachers and keep your promise to me. Ms. Kyle has told me about your behavior. About your lies.
ALEXANDER: I have not lied!
WORF: Alexander, do not continue to
ALEXANDER: She's lying! She hates me, that's why she makes up stories about me!
WORF: I will not listen to more lies. Return to our quarters.
ALEXANDER: You said we could go see the gilvos again.
WORF: Not now. Not after you have broken your word.
ALEXANDER: You promised. You said that we could.
WORF: Enough! It is now clear to me that I have failed in my duties as your father. You have no understanding about what it means to be Klingon. I will arrange for you to attend a Klingon school. There you will learn the lessons I have failed to teach you.
ALEXANDER: No! I won't go!
WORF: Would you further dishonor our family with your disobedience?
ALEXANDER: No, sir.
WORF: You will go to our quarters and remain there until I return.

[Troi's office]
TROI: Are you sure this is what you want?
WORF: It is not a question of what I want. It is a question of what is best for the boy. He will be better off at a Klingon school.
TROI: Have you discussed this with Alexander?
WORF: He is a child. I informed him of my decision.
TROI: I see.
WORF: You disapprove?
TROI: I'm not here to approve or disapprove of the way you raise your son. My concern right now is how this decision is going to affect you. How will you feel when Alexander's gone?
WORF: I will be pleased that he is receiving the guidance he requires.
TROI: Is that how you felt when he left to live with your parents?
WORF: That was different. At the time, I felt he needed a home, a family. Things I could not provide for him.
TROI: I understand. The idea of raising a child can seem a tremendous burden, particularly to a solitary parent.
WORF: He was no burden. I simply knew that a Klingon child required more attention than I could provide.
TROI: I see. Have you ever wondered how Alexander felt about being sent away?
WORF: He was very young. I'm sure he was confused.
TROI: Do you think he felt abandoned? After all, he left very soon after K'Ehleyr's death. In a way, he not only lost his mother, he lost his father as well.
WORF: Are you saying that his misconduct is a result of feeling abandoned?
TROI: It's possible. Children don't have the experience to handle emotional crises. Instead of dealing with their feelings, they act on them. Tell me about the last time you spoke with K'Ehleyr, the night she died.
WORF: We argued.
TROI: What about?
WORF: Alexander. About how she did not tell me about him when he was born.
TROI: So you were angry with her?
WORF: Yes.
TROI: Are you still angry with her?
WORF: Of course not.
TROI: It would be very normal to be angry with her. Angry because she died and left you alone with a son you never knew you had. Being angry doesn't mean you loved her any less, Worf, but you can't hide from your feelings, just as Alexander cannot hide from his. You both have a lot of healing to do. Perhaps you should think about doing it together.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Alexander.
ALEXANDER: I'm almost done.
WORF: Stop for a moment. Let us talk.
ALEXANDER: Why?
WORF: I want you to understand why you are going away.
ALEXANDER: I understand. You're ashamed of me.
WORF: You do not understand. I'm concerned about your future. A Klingon school will be a better environment for you.
ALEXANDER: You don't care about me.
WORF: That is not true.
ALEXANDER: All you care about is your honor!
WORF: Alexander. If your mother were here I do not think she would want us to fight like this.
ALEXANDER: My mother wouldn't send me away.
RIKER: Lieutenant Worf, please report to the Observation lounge.
WORF: Acknowledged. Remain here. I will return shortly.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Report.
LAFORGE: The soliton wave has continued to increase in
WORF: Excuse me.
LAFORGE: The soliton wave has continued to increase in power. Its energy level has risen by a factor of ninety six. At its current rate of acceleration, the wave should hit the planet in a couple of hours.
PICARD: How do we stop it?
LAFORGE: Well, there are two possibilities. We could attempt to use our own warp engines to generate an inverse-resonance wave. If we could match the exact frequency and amplitude of the soliton, we should be able to neutralize it.
RIKER: You don't sound very confident.
DATA: Because the soliton is constantly changing in both frequency and amplitude, it will be extremely difficult to achieve an exact match.
PICARD: Let's hear the second option.
LAFORGE: It's a little more dangerous, but I think there's a better chance for success. We could create a backfire, an explosive force set off just in front of the soliton wave. A large enough explosion, say five photon torpedoes, should be enough to disrupt the wave and allow it to dissipate.
PICARD: How fast is the wave traveling now?
DATA: Warp six point three seven.
LAFORGE: The good news is we can catch it. The bad news is that in order to set up this backfire we have to be in front of it.
DATA: Which would require the Enterprise to go through the wave.
RIKER: Why can't we go around it?
DATA: The wave has been growing in size as well as power. There is insufficient time remaining for us to circumvent it before it reaches Lemma Two.
PICARD: How much protection will the shields provide if we attempt to penetrate the wave?
WORF: The shields have not been fully restored. Shield strength is down to thirty three percent.
RIKER: It's going to be quite a ride.
PICARD: It's a better choice. Lay in a course for the soliton wave.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We lost four warp transfer conduits, Commander.
RIKER: The wave is gaining on us.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We need more speed.
LAFORGE: I doubt that I can keep this speed up

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Much longer, Commander. You'd better fire those torpedoes while we're still in front of the wave.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, how long before the wave overtakes us?
DATA: At our current speed, four minutes thirty seconds, sir.
WORF: Captain, permission to leave the bridge.
PICARD: Granted. Commander, will you accompany Mister Worf to biolab four.
DATA: Captain, biolab four is one of the areas that will be flooded with ion radiation.
PICARD: Commander. I can't let the soliton wave hit the colony. You have three minutes, not one second more.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Primary control's shorted out.
WORF: Stand clear.

[Biolab]
WORF: Alexander!
RIKER: Alexander, can you hear me? Alexander?

[Bridge]
DATA: The soliton wave has closed to ten kilometers, Captain.
PICARD: Stand by to fire torpedoes on my command.

[Biolab]
RIKER: Alexander!
WORF: Commander, I've found him!
RIKER: Worf! Where are you Worf?
WORF: Over here. Help me.
RIKER: It's too heavy. I've got to find something to help us.
ALEXANDER: Father?
WORF: Lie still, I am here.
ALEXANDER: My leg hurts. I'm scared.
ALEXANDER: The gilvos!
RIKER: There's no time.
ALEXANDER: Please, they'll die!

[Bridge]
DATA: The wave has closed to one kilometer, Captain.
PICARD: Picard to Commander Riker. Bridge to Lieutenant Worf, acknowledge.
DATA: The wave is about to overtake us, sir.
PICARD: Commander Riker, acknowledge! Fire torpedoes.

[Bridge]
DATA: The wave has been disrupted, sir.
PICARD: Picard to Riker.
RIKER: Riker here, Captain. We made it

[Corridor]
RIKER: Sir. The boy's going to be all right.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: You're a very lucky little boy. Just some minor smoke inhalation and a hairline fracture of the tibia. That's a bone in your leg. I'd like to keep him overnight, but he should be fine by tomorrow.
WORF: Thank you, Doctor.
ALEXANDER: Are you going to get in trouble because of me?
WORF: Do not concern yourself with that.
ALEXANDER: Am I in trouble?
WORF: Yes, but we will discuss that at a later time.
ALEXANDER: I'm sorry. I promise I'll be good at the Klingon school. I'll make you proud of me.
WORF: Klingon schools are designed to be difficult. The physical and mental hardships faced by the students are meant to build character and strength. However, if you wish to face a greater challenge, you may stay here with me. It will not be easy, for either one of us, but perhaps we can face the challenge together.
ALEXANDER: I accept your challenge, Father. I will stay.
WORF: I believe your mother would be pleased.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter room one, can you lock on

[Bridge]
PICARD: Acknowledged. Picard to Crusher.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Sickbay here, Captain.
PICARD: Prepare for emergency transport.
CRUSHER: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Crusher out.
PICARD: Picard to Commander Riker.

[Vico]
PICARD: Is the boy ready, Number One?
RIKER: Ready, sir.
PICARD: It's your signal.
RIKER: Aye, Captain. It's going to be okay. Here we go. Energize.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Sections of the primary and secondary hull were torn right off. The shearing planes are here, here, and here.
PICARD: How much longer till we can access their logs?
LAFORGE: Almost an hour.
PICARD: The boy was here.
LAFORGE: The hallway outside the computer core. His mother was the ship's systems engineer. The second away team found her body here inside the core.
PICARD: And his father?
LAFORGE: Ship's second officer. He was most likely on the bridge when it was exposed to space.
PICARD: Most likely.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: He'll sleep for a few hours at least. I don't need to keep him here but I will need to see him again tomorrow. You've got some work cut out for you.
TROI: His world is gone, Data. We're going to have to help him build a new one.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: This is not good. Whatever hit the Vico must have set up an EM pulse that flashed through their computer banks.
DATA: Nearly eighty three percent of their records have been lost.
LAFORGE: And all of their sensor logs. Let's use what we got from our own sensors. I'll call up the structural analysis and the surface scans.
DATA: Geordi, as a child, did you ever experience a traumatic event?
LAFORGE: You're wondering about Timothy?
DATA: Yes.
LAFORGE: I was caught in a fire once. I must have been, I don't know, about five, I guess. It was before I got the first visor. And it was only a couple of minutes before my parents found me and pulled me out. And nobody got hurt, but I tell you that was the longest couple of minutes of my life. It was a while after that before I could even let my parents get out of earshot. It was like I absolutely needed to know that they were there, you know?
DATA: Timothy no longer has that kind of support.
LAFORGE: Yeah.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Magnetic residual analysis confirms that the Vico was attacked inside the Black Cluster. The graviton wave fronts pushed the ship to where we found it.
PICARD: No signs of phaser burns on the hull.
LAFORGE: No, sir. Torsional stress levels point to a disrupter-style weapon.
DATA: Fracture points indicate that the energy burst came from a range of less than three thousand meters.
PICARD: But that's a strategy consistent with a cloaked vessel. Romulan. Or Klingon. But we're quite a distance from either of their territories.
DATA: The Breen have outposts in this sector. The attack on the Vico is consistent with their battle tactics and their level of technology.
PICARD: Thank you, Data. But what would the Breen be doing inside the Black Cluster? The boy described a boarding party with helmets and phaser rifles.
LAFORGE: Boarding party? I don't think that's likely, sir.
PICARD: Counselor.
LAFORGE: There was absolutely no evidence of anybody coming on board the Vico. We would have found a transporter field trace. Or if somebody had used the entry ports, we would have found an electrostatic differential in the docking latches, and we didn't. Could Timothy have imagined that, Counselor?
PICARD: Or could he be lying?
TROI: If he's lying, I haven't been able to sense it. Perhaps his emotional trauma level is too high.
PICARD: Why wouldn't he tell us the truth?
TROI: He's still in shock. it's hard to know what's going on in his mind right now.
LAFORGE: Well, I'll go back and check the sensor readings again but I don't think we're going to find anything.
PICARD: Thank you, Geordi.
TROI: Data. Captain, I think we should ask Data to spend some time with him.
DATA: I do not understand.
TROI: I'm very worried about his behavior and what I've just heard doesn't make me feel any better. Data, you're the only one he's reached out to, because you rescued him. We can use your relationship with him to help his recovery.
PICARD: Would Timothy also be more inclined to tell Data the truth about what happened?
TROI: It's a possibility.
PICARD: Commander, proceed with Timothy as the Counselor suggests.
DATA: Aye, sir.
DATA: Counselor, exactly how shall I proceed?
TROI: Just be with him. You're a presence he trusts, and that's what he needs most right now.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: The Black Cluster was formed almost nine billion years ago when hundreds of protostars collapsed in close proximity. The resulting gravitational forces are both violent and highly unpredictable.
LAFORGE: To get anywhere near the center, we're going to have to push through the gravitational wavefronts like the science vessel was designed to do. I've already adjusted our shields accordingly.
WORF: The gravitational forces will affect sensor accuracy. Detecting an enemy vessel will be difficult.
RIKER: Maybe that's what happened to the Vico. They didn't see anything coming until it was too late.
PICARD: Counselor, has the boy volunteered any further information?
TROI: No, but I do have an appointment with him in less than half an hour.
PICARD: If there's a possibility of getting more from him, I'd like you to pursue it. But we need to continue our investigation. We'll enter the Black Cluster at oh seven hundred hours tomorrow morning. Dismissed.

[Ready room]
PICARD: An android?
TROI: I know it sounds unusual, but it is understandable. Technically, it's called enantiodromia. Conversion into the opposite. Timothy went from human to machine, from being emotional to being emotionless. But the underlying trauma is still there. He's just found a new way to suppress it.
PICARD: Counselor, how long will this behavior last?
TROI: As long as he needs it to. Timothy is rebuilding his identity as best he can. The android persona is just one step along the way. As soon as he feels stronger and more sure of himself, it should drop away naturally.
PICARD: I assume this is not a time to confront him about what happened to his ship.
TROI: Not yet. The best thing we can do right now is to let Timothy take us where he wants to go. We should support the process and even encourage it.
PICARD: Data, I would like you to make Timothy the best android he can possibly be.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Adjusting shield frequencies now, Commander. We'll have this smoothed out in just a second.

[Classroom observation area]
DATA: He laughed.
TROI: Yes. It's nice to see, isn't it?
DATA: It is certainly not consistent with his android persona.
TROI: I'd say he's beginning the process of letting go of that fantasy.
DATA: Then my work with him is done.
TROI: No, I don't think it is, Data. A laugh is one step in the right direction. We need to help him take a few more steps.
DATA: How, Counselor?
TROI: I'd like you to talk to him about your own fascination with humanity. If you can explain to Timothy the appeal that humanity has for you, he might find it easier to become a boy again.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, gravitational wavefront intensity is increasing steadily. Eleven hundred standard G units and rising.
PICARD: Let's see if anyone's out there. Mister Worf, attempt a wide range sensor sweep.
WORF: Aye, sir. Gravitational distortion is too great, Captain. The scanning signal is again being reflected off the wavefronts. I am unable to compensate. The sensors are useless.
PICARD: Mister Data to the Bridge, please.
DATA: Acknowledged.
PICARD: Adjust sensors to short range. Attempt a limited positron scan.
WORF: The distortion is still in effect.
RIKER: Better jacket the scanning beam.
WORF: The secondary beam is being distorted as well.
PICARD: Mister Data, our sensors have been rendered ineffective by the field distortion. I want your analysis. Mister Worf, fire phasers, maximum intensity, limited spectrum. Zero zero one mark zero four five.
RIKER: An experiment, Captain?
PICARD: Exactly, Number One.
WORF: Firing phasers.
PICARD: Explanation, Mister Data.
DATA: Phaser energy was reflected by the gravitational wavefronts. It is similar to the phenomenon distorting our sensor signals.
PICARD: Phasers and sensors both useless? Mister Data, this reflection phenomenon, would it have the same effect on a disruptor-style weapon?
DATA: Yes, sir. Disruptors would be ineffectual.
PICARD: And a ship's cloaking field?
DATA: It would be extremely difficult to maintain.
PICARD: Mister Data, is it at all likely that the Vico could have been attacked inside the cluster?
DATA: Given the effects we have observed, the probability is exceedingly remote, sir.
PICARD: Picard to Counselor Troi.
TROI: Yes, Captain?
PICARD: Counselor, will you bring Timothy to my Ready room?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Fusion reactors four through nine into the shield array. That should double the shield strength.

[Bridge]
WORF: Wavefront intensity has increased by an order of magnitude. Impact in three, two, one.
WORF: Wave front intensity is continuing to increase. Structural over-pressure now exceeding one hundred eighty percent.
PICARD: La Forge?
LAFORGE: I don't understand. That should have been enough.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We could run the shield grid directly off the warp drive.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Warp transfer to the shields complete.

[Classroom observation area]
TROI: Timothy's a boy feeling a great deal of pain. But he is a boy again. Is this difficult for you, Data?
DATA: Difficult?
TROI: To watch him moving away from being like you.
DATA: That would require an emotional context which I cannot provide.

[Corridor]
DATA: It is perplexing to me that the Ullians' ability to retrieve memory is so highly prized. If an event were important enough to be recovered, why would it have been forgotten?
LAFORGE: It's not quite the same for us as it is for you, Data. You record every second of every moment of your life.
DATA: That is correct.
LAFORGE: And then if you want to recall any one of those moments, you just access the proper memory circuit.
DATA: My understanding of the human brain suggests that the process is the same for you. Each memory is encoded in chains of molecules. If you want to retrieve it, you simply access the proper RNA sequence.
LAFORGE: Yeah, that's true.
DATA: Then in what way is it different?
LAFORGE: Sometimes there are memories we just can't access at the spur of the moment. For instance, I have no recollection of how I spent my last birthday. Birthdays are important occasions, and you would think that I'd remember how I spent the day, but right now I can't even remember where I was.

[Turbolift]
LAFORGE: Deck two. On the other hand, I remember everything about the time I got my first pet. A Circassian cat. I was eight. I remember how funny-looking he was. I remember how excited I was. It's as if it happened last week.
DATA: Perhaps you remember the pleasant memories and forget the unpleasant ones?
LAFORGE: No, sometimes the bad memories can be the most intense of all.
DATA: It would seem there is no predictable pattern to human memory.
LAFORGE: It would seem.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: Deanna, I don't know if you can hear me. I've heard doctors say that even when someone's in a coma, they may be able to hear when people talk to them. That it might help stimulate the brain, speed the healing. In fact, I think you did that for me once, when I was in pretty bad shape. I just thought it might help to hear a friendly voice, even if you don't know you're hearing it. We've been busy mapping the sector. It's been pretty routine. The most unusual thing we've seen is a binary star system. Let's see, what else? I finished the personnel review that we were working on. You can check it out when you wake up. I miss you. Please don't stay away too long.
CRUSHER: Will? Will, I promise I'll let you know the minute that she regains consciousness.
RIKER: I know.
CRUSHER: There's nothing you can do here. You'll wear yourself out.
RIKER: Right.
CRUSHER: It's late. Go to bed. That's an order.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Bring down the door.
LAFORGE: I need to bring that door down.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: I compared Deanna's brain scan to one that I took during her last physical. There is a difference. This time there's a trace of electropathic activity.
PICARD: And Commander Riker?
CRUSHER: I found the same pattern. If I didn't know better, I'd say they both had Iresine syndrome. That's the only medical condition that would produce that pattern.
WORF: What is Iresine syndrome?
CRUSHER: A very rare neurological disorder first diagnosed in the twenty third century. It's characterized by an identical electropathic residue.
PICARD: Why discount the possibility that it's responsible for these comas?
CRUSHER: Iresine is always accompanied by a severely decreased histamine count. Both Will and Deanna showed normal levels. I've asked Commander La Forge to conduct a shipwide diagnostic to determine any other agent that might cause the same electropathic pattern.
WORF: Commander Riker and Counselor Troi were in perfect health until the Ullians arrived. It would be wise to quarantine the aliens.
PICARD: I believe that it would be premature to take that action, Mister Worf. There's no real evidence linking these comas with the Ullians.
CRUSHER: That's true, but there is something curious. The electropathic residue I discovered is located in the thalamus. That's the area of the cerebral cortex that involves memory function.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: You're the only person on board to undergo a memory probe by the Ullians. I'd like to do a neurological work up and see if I can detect any residual effect. Doctor Martin will monitor your vital signs while I conduct the scan.
KEIKO: I'm happy to help.
CRUSHER: Have you had any unusual symptoms since the probe? Headaches? Dizziness?
KEIKO: No, nothing like that. It was a wonderful experience.
CRUSHER: Electrical activity is normal. CPK levels are normal. Hippocampus is stable, and the thalamus? The thalamus is normal. There is no indication at all of the electropathic residual.
KEIKO: Is that good?
CRUSHER: Oh, you're fine, Keiko. But I am no closer to solving this mystery.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: I've spent two hours having a cozy chat with the computer. I've checked everything I can think of. Any possible agent that might cause that electropathic pattern.
DATA: I assume from your tone of voice that you were unsuccessful.
LAFORGE: Didn't find a thing.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: Doctor Crusher's not going to be too happy with

[Crusher's office]
DATA: Emergency medical team to Doctor Crusher's office immediately.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Well, that's it for Melina Two. No unexplained comas during the time the Ullians were working there.
DATA: We have yet to receive transmissions from the two planets of the Nel system. Perhaps they will show different results.
LAFORGE: Maybe. Or maybe we're not checking for the right thing.
DATA: Please clarify.
LAFORGE: We haven't look into the comas that were explained.
DATA: Why would we do that?
LAFORGE: Well, remember what Doctor Crusher said right after Counselor Troi became unconscious? That it looked exactly like Iresine syndrome except for the histamine count?
DATA: Yes.
LAFORGE: Maybe not every medical facility is as careful as Doctor Crusher. Maybe it's easier to just make a quick diagnosis rather than to keep hunting for the real cause.
DATA: You are searching for instances of Iresine syndrome?
LAFORGE: Right, and correlating them with visits by the Ullians. And there we are.
DATA: Two cases of Iresine syndrome on Hurada Three, at exactly the time Tarmin and his group was there.
LAFORGE: Let's check the other planets. I think we may have something here.

[Bridge]
DATA: We have uncovered several cases, sir, but we have not yet completed our investigation.

[Ready room]
PICARD: We'll inform the medical personnel on those planets that we have discovered the true nature of the comas. I'm sure they'll appreciate knowing what

[Bridge]
PICARD: Really happened.
DATA: Yes, sir. We will keep searching, sir.
LAFORGE: We just got the transmission from the Nel system, Data. No mention of Iresine syndrome but there are two unexplained comas on one planet, none on the other.
DATA: And were the Ullians present?
LAFORGE: Checking the mission logs. That's funny. On stardates 45321 and 45323, when the comas occurred, Tarmin was on his home planet. He wasn't anywhere near the Nel system.

[Ready room]
TROI: I believe some will choose to risk death rather than leave, Captain.
PICARD: You've spent a good deal of time on the surface. How do you suggest we change their minds?
TROI: I'm not sure we can. It would mean abandoning their fundamental way of life.
PICARD: They've managed to turn a dubious scientific endeavor into dogma.
TROI: You don't approve of genetic engineering.
PICARD: It was a bad idea whose time is long past.
TROI: They seem to have made it succeed.
PICARD: They've given away their humanity with this genetic manipulation. Many of the qualities that they breed out, the uncertainty, the self-discovery, the unknown, those are many of the qualities that make life worth living. Well, at least to me. I wouldn't want to live knowing that my future was written, that my boundaries had been already set, would you?
TROI: I've asked myself that question a lot during the past few days. I don't know. I doubt it. Nevertheless, it's what they believe in, and it won't be an easy matter to talk them into leaving.
PICARD: This leader of theirs, Conor, he seems to be a reasonable man.
TROI: I find him very reasonable. Open to suggestions, thoughtful, quite disarming. The perfect administrator.
PICARD: I'm sure. Will he leave when he sees there's no other choice?
TROI: I don't know. I hope so.
PICARD: You admire him.
TROI: Yes.
PICARD: Then help him to see the reality of what may happen to his colony. If he makes the right decision, if he's as good a leader as he's designed to be, then perhaps the others will follow.

[Bridge]
DATA: Increasing impulse power to tractor emitters. EPS power levels rising.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Reduce life support to minimum requirements, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: We have lost one of the emitter circuits.
WORF: Life support failure. Decks nine, twelve, and thirteen.
RIKER: Engage evacuation procedures for those decks. Geordi, we're going to need power back soon.
LAFORGE: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
DATA: The second lateral emitter circuit.
WORF: Losing life support systems on decks five through nine. Evacuation procedures initiated.
PICARD: Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Hold on, Captain.
DATA: Shipwide life support failure in fifteen seconds, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: Termination of all life support in five seconds.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Now, Mister La Forge.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Asylum?
LAFORGE: She wants to leave the colony.
RIKER: She may not be the only one. The science teams that went down to the surface fielded a lot of questions from colonists who were more than curious about what's outside their world.
WORF: Why shouldn't we grant them asylum?
TROI: We can't do that.
LAFORGE: We have to do that.
TROI: Do you understand what it would do to the colony?
LAFORGE: I understand these are human beings, Counselor, with free will. If she wants to leave, she has every right to.
RIKER: And what happens to the colony if she does? If others join her?
CRUSHER: The society is genetically integrated. Suddenly there would be gaps, missing pieces.
TROI: It would destroy them.
CRUSHER: There must be something we can do to help.
PICARD: We may have done too much to help them already, Doctor.
WORF: We saved them from destruction.
PICARD: Did we? Counselor, I think it's time you took me to meet Mister Conor.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Transporter room three.
TROI: Computer, halt. Captain, I have to tell you something, and it isn't easy for me because I've used very poor judgment. Actually, I've acted quite unprofessionally.
PICARD: Counselor, what is it you say? Take a deep breath.
TROI: Conor and I have had a relationship.
PICARD: I see.
TROI: It should never have happened. I knew there was concern about outside influences and I should have been more careful.
PICARD: What is your status with him now?
TROI: I did not intend to see him again.
PICARD: Would you prefer not to return to the surface?
TROI: No, I think I should come with you, but I wanted you to know before we went down.
PICARD: I appreciate that. Computer, resume.
TROI: I wanted so much to help him, to be there for him, but the more I was.
PICARD: Deanna, we all went into this with the best intentions.
TROI: I should have walked away as soon as I saw what was happening.
PICARD: But you didn't. And that's human. We make mistakes. Genetic manipulation or not, nobody's perfect.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: The colonists are all on board, sir.
PICARD: How many finally?
RIKER: Twenty three.
PICARD: If we ever needed reminding of the importance of the Prime Directive, it is now.
RIKER: The Prime Directive doesn't apply. They're human.
PICARD: Doesn't it? Our very presence may have damaged, even destroyed, their way of life. Whether or not we agree with that way of life or whether they're human or not is irrelevant, Number One. We are responsible.
RIKER: We had to respond to the threat from the core fragment didn't we?
PICARD: Of course we did. But in the end we may have proved just as dangerous to that colony as any core fragment could ever have been.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: The characteristic response to the Kriskov Gambit is to counter with the el-Mitra Exchange, particularly since I have already taken both your rooks. By missing that opportunity, you have left your king vulnerable.
TROI: We'll see.
DATA: As you wish, Counselor. Check.
DATA: Intriguing. You have devised a completely unanticipated response to a classic attack. You will checkmate my king in seven moves.
TROI: Data, chess isn't just a game of ploys and gambits. It's a game of intuition.
DATA: You are a challenging opponent, Counselor.
TROI: Thanks, but don't think a compliment's going to get you out of our bet. You owe me one Samarian Sunset made in the traditional style, as only you can make it, Data.
DATA: I will honor our agreement.

[Bridge]
WORF: We are picking up a subspace signal, Captain. Sensors indicate a small spacecraft ahead.
LAFORGE: The configuration is unfamiliar. Nothing in our database comes close.
WORF: Within visual range.
PICARD: On screen.
PICARD: Analysis, Mister Worf.
WORF: No diskernable armament. Reading one lifeform aboard.
PICARD: Hail the vessel.
WORF: No response, Captain.
LAFORGE: We're being scanned. It's not like any sensor system I've ever seen. Shall we raise shields?
PICARD: No, let's begin this with a show of good faith.
WORF: Sir, the scans are now matching the frequency of our optical data network. It could be an attempt to access our computer system.
LAFORGE: Scanning intensity has increased by fifteen hundred percent.
PICARD: Shields up.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: One Samarian Sunset, made in the traditional style.
TROI: It's beautiful.
DATA: I hope you enjoy it.
DATA: I hope you enjoy it.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I've regained control of navigation, propulsion, weapons and communications.

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: We should be able to tie them into the Bridge in just a few minutes.
WORF: Well done. Now we are ready.
PICARD: The question is, for what?

[Corridor]
RIKER: These are your quarters.
TROI: Thanks for your help. Come in for a minute?

[Troi's quarters]
RIKER: Recognize anything?
TROI: It's like it belongs to someone else. Nothing feels right. This room, this ship, most of all this war we're fighting.
RIKER: I don't imagine war ever feels right.
TROI: I suppose that's true.
RIKER: What is it?
TROI: That same feeling. You seem familiar. You're the only thing that does.
RIKER: Can you remember anything specific about us?
TROI: I don't know. It's more like remembering an emotion. Feelings that you're somehow associated with.
RIKER: I hope they're good feelings.
TROI: Yes, they are. This entire situation is a little unnerving.
RIKER: It's been a long day. We've all been through a lot.
TROI: We certainly have.
RIKER: I'll see you tomorrow. Goodnight.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I don't get it. I'm still hitting a file wall.
DATA: There appears to be a command path discontinuity. I shall attempt to rewrite the locator subroutine.
LAFORGE: You must have been one hell of a bartender. It's too bad there aren't any more of you around. We could certainly use the help.
DATA: Yes.
LAFORGE: I wonder why you're the only one on board?
DATA: I have expended considerable thought with respect to my apparent uniqueness among the crew.
LAFORGE: Any conclusions?
DATA: Several possibilities suggest themselves. I may represent an entire race of artificial lifeforms. If so, there may be a home planet for others of my kind. A shared history and a culture of which I am not presently aware.
LAFORGE: Then again, you could've been built just for this ship.
DATA: I have considered that possibility as well. It may also be the case that every starship in the Federation is equipped with an artificial lifeform such as myself.
LAFORGE: If that's true, maybe you all look alike. A standard issue android. Hard to construct so only one allowed per vessel.
DATA: There is another possibility. Perhaps my origin is unique. In that case, I am alone. We have accessed the information storage area. Considerable damage has been done to the files themselves.
LAFORGE: The mission reports are gone.
DATA: As well as the crew records, and the personal logs.
LAFORGE: So are the medical records.

[Ready room]
PICARD: The Lysians have identified Commander MacDuff as a Satarran, an alien race that's been at war with the Lysians for decades. I have conveyed our deepest regrets to the Lysians over the tragedy of their lost ship and crew.
RIKER: With all the power that MacDuff had to alter our brain chemistry and manipulate the computers, it's hard to believe he needed the Enterprise.
PICARD: The Satarrans' weapons technology is no more advanced than the Lysians'. One photon torpedo would have ended their war.
RIKER: It almost did.

[Bridge]
DATA: The intense electromagnetic whirlwinds on the moon's surface make it virtually impossible to locate the source of the signal, Captain.
PICARD: Any indications of life, Mister Worf?
WORF: Scanners read negative, sir, but they may be affected by the interference.
RIKER: Have you ever heard anything like this, Data?
DATA: I believe so, Commander. At Starfleet Academy.
PICARD: The Academy?
DATA: I will verify it. Just as I thought. It is a Starfleet subspace distress signal, standard to Daedalus-class starships.
RIKER: There hasn't been a Daedalus class in service for what?
DATA: One hundred seventy two years, sir.
PICARD: Are there any records of missing ships in this vicinity?
DATA: The USS Essex under the command of Captain Bryce Shumar disappeared in this sector over two centuries ago.
PICARD: Daedalus class.
DATA: I have accessed the subspace transponder signature of the Essex. It is identical to the signal coming from the moon's surface.
RIKER: W arrived a little late.
PICARD: Mute it, Mister Data. With that storm activity down there, it isn't worth the risk to check on a ghost ship. Advise Starfleet that we have solved the mystery of Captain Shumar and the Essex.
TROI: I'm not sure we have. Someone's down there. Alive. First officer's log, supplemental. The electromagnetic interference on the surface has been judged too dangerous for anyone to transport down, so we have taken a shuttle to investigate.

[Shuttle]
DATA: Shields are holding, sir.
RIKER: Wind shear is incredible. Data, keep an eye on the stabilizers. If it's anything like this on the ground, I don't see how anyone can survive on this moon for long.
TROI: Maybe they've been living underground.
RIKER: Question is where? I still can't locate the source of the damn signal. It's bouncing around more than we are.
DATA: Forward thrusters have failed, sir. We are losing power.
RIKER: Enterprise!

[Bridge]
PICARD: Go ahead.
RIKER: We've lost our thrusters. Attempting to compensate with secondary boosters
WORF: Sir? The shuttlecraft's impulse generators have shut down.
PICARD: Commander, can you hear me?

[Shuttle]
PICARD: Enterprise to shuttle, please respond.
RIKER: Hold on! We're going down.
DATA: Initiating emergency landing procedures.
RIKER: Maintain the approach attitude, Data. I'm taking her in. Brace for impact.

[Moon surface]
TROI: Your arm.
RIKER: Yeah, I'm pretty sure that's broken. Enterprise?
DATA: It is unlikely that we will be able to establish communication with the ship, given the electromagnetic interference.
RIKER: We'll stay in the area until the Enterprise finds us. Take an inventory of the shuttle. See if there's anything left in there that's usable. The ground cover is all non-porous rock, which makes me believe it's even less likely there's anyone living here.
DATA: There are no instruments left of practical value that have not been damaged by our landing, sir.
TROI: What is that?
RIKER: That doesn't look like any storm front I've ever seen.
DATA: The tricorder is picking up high levels of EM bursts across the spectrum. No lifesign readings other than our own.
TROI: There is someone alive here. I'm more certain of it now than ever.
RIKER: Well, I hope they can find us, because there's no way we'll find them.
TROI: They're coming. They're coming with the storm.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: We can't get a pattern lock on their communicators because of the EM bursts, Captain. There's no way we can beam them out of there, not under these conditions.

[Bridge]
PICARD: The same conditions won't permit a shuttle to land safely, Mister LaForge. Any suggestions?
O'BRIEN: Give us a minute, Captain.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Sir, let me beam down with a pattern enhancer.
LAFORGE: Chief, there's no guarantee you won't rematerialize in a million pieces if your signal gets caught up in that electromagnetic whirlwind.
O'BRIEN: I can boost the confinement beam. One person might be able to make it.
LAFORGE: Captain, Chief O'Brien wants to beam down to the surface with a pattern enhancer.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: His chances of getting down there safely are no better than fifty-fifty, in my opinion.
WORF: Captain, a major storm front is moving in on the away team's coordinates.
PICARD: You're aware of the risks, Mister O'Brien?
O'BRIEN: Yes sir.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I think I can make it.
PICARD: All right then. Good luck.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.

[Moon surface]
RIKER: Mister O'Brien! Nice of you to join us.
O'BRIEN: Nice spot for a picnic, sir. We need to distribute these enhancer rods at seven meter lengths. That should do it.
RIKER: Is this storm front going to interfere with the transport, Chief?
O'BRIEN: I'd really like to get us out of here before it hits, Commander. I'm supposed to be feeding the baby lunch. Molly gets in a terribly foul mood if I'm late.
RIKER: I'm with you.
RIKER: Lunch time, Miles! Let's do it!

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Easy, Deanna.
TROI: Where?
CRUSHER: Back on the Enterprise. You're going to be okay.
TROI: My skin, it's tingling.
CRUSHER: You're experiencing the afterimages of the electromagnetic discharge. The sensation will pass. They're all fine, too. Now, I want you to take your time, Counselor. Doctor's orders.
PICARD: Injury report, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Mostly minor abrasions. Commander Riker took the worst of it with a broken arm.
PICARD: Mister Data. Good work, Chief.
O'BRIEN: Thank you, sir.
RIKER: Ready for duty, sir.
PICARD: You're sure, Number One?
RIKER: It's not the first bone I've ever broken.
PICARD: And how are you, Counselor?
TROI: Very glad to be here.
PICARD: Good. Let's go.

[Corridor]
PICARD: So what happened down there?
RIKER: It was just one hell of a storm. It moved in on our position faster than anything I've ever seen.
PICARD: Was there any evidence of life?

[Turbolift]
RIKER: No, but if Troi was right, we were very close to it.
PICARD: Bridge. How do you suggest we proceed?
RIKER: We need to adjust the scanners so they can penetrate those storms. Do you have any ideas, Data?
DATA: We might be able to employ virtual imaging to interpolate missing data.
PICARD: Is something wrong, Commander?
DATA: My apologies. It seems my primary speech processors are experiencing a minor fluctuation. I will have it corrected in a moment.

[Ready room]
TROI: I've never felt anything like it. It was as though they were calling to me.
PICARD: Are you saying someone was communicating telepathically?
TROI: Perhaps, for an instant. It was like their voices were being carried on the wind.
PICARD: What were they trying to communicate?
TROI: I'm not sure, but they were calling me to the southern polar region. I believe that's where we should look for the Essex.

[Turbolift]
O'BRIEN: Deck thirty six. Engineering.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Computer, re-enable Bridge control. Security protocol, Riker omega Three.
PICARD: Report.
RIKER: Data, O'Brien and Troi tried to commandeer the ship.
WORF: They're in turbolift four. Engaging override controls now.

[Turbolift]
DATA: They've trapped us.
TROI: What deck is this?
O'BRIEN: We're on deck ten.
TROI: Can you move us again?
O'BRIEN: I know how to override the bridge command.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Activate security fields decks eight through fifteen.
WORF: Sir, the turbolift is moving again. They're still inside.
PICARD: Initiate emergency bulkheads in turboshaft four.
WORF: Aye, sir. They have been stopped at deck thirteen.
PICARD: Mister Worf.

[Deck 10 Corridor]
TROI: Do you know how to deactivate this?
O'BRIEN: The computer will not allow us to override an emergency forcefield command.
DATA: My entity's artificial substructure may be useful.

[Bridge]
RIKER: They've broken through a security field, deck ten, section two.
PICARD: Security to Ten Forward.

[Ten Forward]
KEIKO: Shh. Momma's here. Shh.
TROI: Everyone get down on the floor.
KEIKO: Miles?
O'BRIEN: On the floor!
WORF: Everyone down, now!

[Bridge]
RIKER: Multiple phaser shots, Ten Forward.
PICARD: Picard to Worf. Report.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Mister Worf acknowledge. Can you hear me, Mister Worf?
TROI: Yes, Bridge. He can hear you.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. Following an aborted attempt to take control of the Bridge, Counselor Troi, Mister Data, and Chief O'Brien have seized Ten Forward.

[Ten Forward]
O'BRIEN: You were correct. They're attempting to engage their transporters. But I know how to shut them down.
DATA: Do it.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: What are you doing now?
DATA: I can reverse the polarity of their forcefields to isolate this room.
TROI: Good.
O'BRIEN: Their communicators. Now they will learn nothing but what we tell them.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Please identify yourselves.
TROI: They will now attempt to negotiate for the safety and release of their people. Interesting. Under normal circumstances, I would be counseling the Captain at a time like this.
O'BRIEN: And what would you tell him to do?
TROI: I would help him find a way to secure our trust.
DATA: What are you looking at? You, Klingon. Attack me. Are you afraid?
WORF: I have no fear of death.
DATA: And I have no fear of killing you.
TROI: Stop it!
PICARD: Please respond, Ten Forward. Are there any members of my crew who require medical assistance?
TROI: We can discuss your wounded, but first you will move the ship.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Move it where?
TROI: You will

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Change the ship's orbit to an inclination of eighty degrees south.

[Bridge]
RIKER: The southern polar region. That's where Data tried to move the ship.
PICARD: And that's what Troi asked me to do. But why? Ten Forward, if you could be more specific about our intended destination

[Tem Forward]
PICARD: Perhaps we could
TROI: You have thirty seconds to change your heading or additional members of your crew will require medical attention.

[Bridge]
PICARD: We need to stabilize this situation. Play for time. I suggest we move the ship as they've asked. Agreed? Set a new heading, but take us there as slowly as you can. Ten Forward, we are moving the ship as you requested.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: He's telling the truth. Their heading has changed.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Five of your people have been injured.
PICARD: How serious is their condition?
TROI: You, Klingon, tell him.
WORF: Captain, one person has suffered what looks like a level-five phaser hit, and four others have secondary burns. They require medical attention. And our captors are not affected by phaser stun settings.
DATA: Silence, Klingon.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ten Forward, you must release these people so that they can receive proper medical attention.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: I will release no one.

[Bridge]
PICARD: If you will release them, I will take their place.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: I don't trust him. It may be a deception.
TROI: The crew values Picard's life above all others. Captain Picard, we agree to your proposal.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Expect a medical team to accompany me.
TROI: Acknowledged.
PICARD: Sickbay, this is Picard. Have an emergency medical team meet me outside Ten Forward.
RIKER: Sir, putting you down there only strengthens their position.
PICARD: Number One, so long as they're on board this ship, I'm a hostage no matter where I am. We all are. I must find out who we're dealing with. If La Forge and Ro can attempt a rescue in short order, then let them proceed. If they can't, I will provide you with another opportunity. Watch for it.
RIKER: Yes, sir.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: Silence that child!
O'BRIEN: I know you. I know who you are. And I know who this is.
KEIKO: She's frightened. Why don't you just let us go?
O'BRIEN: No. Make it stop.
PICARD: Ten Forward, we're outside the door.
TROI: Lower the force field.
TROI: Welcome, Captain. Allow me to introduce myself. I am Captain Bryce Shumar, of the Federation Starship Essex.
PICARD: The Starship Essex vanished over two hundred years ago.
TROI: Indeed. I know, I was there. This is my First Officer Commander Steven Mullen, and my Security Chief, Lieutenant Morgan Kelly.
PICARD: And you have survived all this time as?
TROI: Spirits? Ghosts? But you're a man who would never believe in ghosts, Picard. Isn't that true? You see, Troi knows you. And so I do as well.
PICARD: Then Counselor Troi is still alive?
TROI: Yes, of course she is. I have no wish to harm her or to harm anyone else.
PICARD: I'm very pleased to hear that.
TROI: We have been forced to take this action, Captain, because we need your help.
PICARD: My help?
TROI: Our consciousness has been trapped on this moon for two centuries. We must escape this torture.
PICARD: How did this happen to you?
TROI: I can't explain how it happened. I only know that it did. The Essex was caught in an electromagnetic storm just as your shuttle was. Moments before we crashed, the bridge was struck by lightning. The ship was ripped apart. Somehow, in that instant, our consciousness was absorbed in the magnetic currents on the surface.
PICARD: Why didn't you tell us this? Why the deception? The violence?
TROI: Because as I said, I knew you would not believe us. Even now, I know you don't.
PICARD: What was your vessel's designation and its complement?
TROI: NCC One seven three. Daedalus-class starship. Crew, two hundred and twenty nine.
PICARD: Under whose command in this sector?
TROI: Admiral Uttan Narsu, Starbase Twelve. You will find all this in Starfleet records.
PICARD: I don't need to see the records.
TROI: Then you know I am correct.
PICARD: End this, and I will give you whatever help you need.
TROI: No. You don't trust us. And I can't risk trusting you.
DATA: It is taking too long. We should have been there by now. He is manipulating you.
TROI: Captain Picard has every right to be curious.
DATA: He will try to delay until a rescue attempt is possible.
TROI: I know that. I also know that he will make every effort to protect the lives of his people. Since our demands are not excessive, Captain, I hope you will see that it will be simpler to accede than to risk further injuries.
PICARD: What do you want?
TROI: All you need to know for now is that we want to rest. Simply, finally, to rest.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: This anionic energy seems to be vulnerable to the same magnetic flux density we monitored in the storms. If we can duplicate it, we can trap it

[Jefferies tube]
CRUSHER: Once it's out of our people.
LAFORGE: You should be able to do that by flooding Ten Forward with ionogenic particles.
CRUSHER: Exactly what I was thinking.
RIKER: Geordi, how long will it take to get it all ready?
LAFORGE: We still have to calibrate the plasma inverter, Commander. My guess is forty five minutes to an hour.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: I can have the containment field ready by then.
RIKER: Keep me advised.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Impressions, Mister Worf?
WORF: Spiritual possessions of this sort have been reported throughout Klingon history. It is called jat'yIn, the taking of the living by the dead.
PICARD: Human history is full of many similar legends.
WORF: Then you believe they may be telling the truth?
PICARD: Not for one moment.
WORF: Sir, they know much about the Essex. If it is the spirit of Captain Shumar.
PICARD: Then he should be behaving very much better, don't you think? A Starfleet Captain.
O'BRIEN: You two, sit down.
WORF: After living disembodied for two centuries, perhaps they've gone mad.
PICARD: I assure you, Mister Worf, these are not jat'yIn. Our job is to find out exactly what they are and then to determine how to deal with them.
DATA: Right, That's enough. Sit down, both of you. You over there, you there. Down.
O'BRIEN: I gave you that. In a place called McKinley Park. Green grass. Tall trees.
KEIKO: Please don't.
O'BRIEN: I hid the bracelet in your pocket. You were surprised.
KEIKO: Don't.
O'BRIEN: You said, Miles, you make me feel so happy.
KEIKO: No! Get away! Get away from me.
TROI: Leave her alone.
PICARD: Captain Shumar. We'll be approaching the southern polar region that you requested in a few minutes. I need to give additional instructions.
TROI: Very well. We're taking you to our crash site.
PICARD: The southern pole?
TROI: That is correct.
PICARD: Nothing our sensors were able to detect indicated that the Essex went down in that region.
TROI: As I told you, Captain, the ship broke up in the atmosphere, and the bridge went down here. When we reach it, you will beam what's left of our skeletal remains on board this ship and then take them back to Earth for a proper burial. You see how simple a request this is?
PICARD: Captain, if you will let these people go, I'll order the Bridge to follow your instructions.
TROI: I will release no one.
PICARD: If you are who you say you are, there's no need for any of this. We'll gladly take you home.
TROI: I wish you were truly as open-minded as you say, Picard.
PICARD: If you don't release the hostages, I won't cooperate.
DATA: You will cooperate, Captain. You will cooperate or someone will die. Who shall it be? How about the Klingon? Get another one.
O'BRIEN: You.
O'BRIEN: Come on. Come on, come on.
DATA: Pick one to die, Captain, or I kill them both.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Prepare to release the ionogenic field on my signal.
RIKER: Standing by.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: Tell them to stop, or I kill everyone in this room, starting with you.
PICARD: Picard to Bridge, abort immediately.

[Bridge]
RIKER: As you say, Captain. Riker to La Forge, return to the Bridge.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Are you ready to cooperate?
PICARD: Yes. First officer's log, supplemental. The Enterprise has moved into a synchronous orbit near the southern polar region. We await further instructions from Ten Forward.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Any sign of the Essex?
LAFORGE: Negative, Commander. Electromagnetic disturbances are even worse here. Scanners can't read a thing.
RIKER: Bridge to Ten Forward.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Intense storm activity over the southern pole is making it virtually impossible for us to pick up any trace of the Essex.
TROI: We are giving you the exact coordinates of our remains on board the wreck of the Essex.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I'm receiving the coordinates now.
RIKER: Can you tell what's there?
LAFORGE: Just your basic ionic cyclone. I can't read a thing.
RIKER: I'm sure as hell not going to beam up whatever might be down there.
LAFORGE: I've got a good excuse for you. The transporters aren't going to work any better than the scanners.
RIKER: Bridge to Ten Forward.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Whatever's blocking our scanners will prevent the use of the transporters.
O'BRIEN: They're lying.
PICARD: On the contrary, we've had a difficult time with transporters since we arrived here. That's why we had to send down the shuttle. You should all have been aware of that fact.
DATA: We must be able to use the transporters.
PICARD: Mister O'Brien was the one who safely executed the return of the away team. He's the most qualified person on board to operate the transporters under these circumstances.
TROI: Can you do it from here?
O'BRIEN: No. I'd have to use a transporter pad.
PICARD: I could give you safe passage to a transporter pad in one of the cargo bays.
DATA: It's a trick. He is trying to divide us.
TROI: We must not be separated.
PICARD: I can give you all safe passage.
DATA: Why are you suddenly being so helpful?
PICARD: Because I assume that if you choose go to the cargo bay, then you won't to take all of the hostages. Their safety is my chief priority.
TROI: What are the risks when we leave this room?
DATA: Without the protection of the forcefields, we are completely vulnerable.
O'BRIEN: They could use the transporter against us. Once the forcefield is down, they could beam us back to the surface. But there is a way to neutralize that threat. Bridge, transfer all transporter functions to Ten Forward.
RIKER: In order to do that

[Bridge]
RIKER: You will have to release your computer control lockouts.

[Ten Forward]
O'BRIEN: That's not true.
PICARD: Let me talk to him. Number One, I think we have an opportunity to end this siege.

[Bridge]
PICARD: It will require the cooperation of all concerned.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Our guests will be moving shortly to cargo bay four, where the transport will occur. I want you to ensure them of safe passage between Ten Forward to the cargo bay.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Understood, Captain. Doctor. Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.

[Ten Forward]
O'BRIEN: Transporter controls are being transferred. Ten Forward to Bridge. I said all transporter controls. Including those aboard all your shuttlecraft.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Almost had them, Ensign. Nice try. Ten Forward. Our mistake. Remaining transporter functions are being transferred to you.

[Ten Forward]
O'BRIEN: Once we create our own access code, we can prevent anyone using the transporter against us. We can go to the cargo bay.
DATA: What about the weapons?
TROI: We will each take a hostage for protection.
DATA: Klingon.
TROI: Picard, you are mine.
KEIKO: Please, let her stay.
TROI: Lower the forcefield.

[Cargo bay]
O'BRIEN: I will require assistance.
PICARD: Captain Shumar, how do you intend to achieve this rest that you so desire?
TROI: What do you mean?
PICARD: Well, how do you intend to free yourselves of this existence that has so trapped your consciousness?
TROI: It will fade as we move further from this planet.
PICARD: Really? What is your scientific basis for that?
TROI: I don't need a scientific basis. Just be quiet.
PICARD: Captain Shumar, when are you going to tell me who you really are?
O'BRIEN: I've initialized the transporter signal.
TROI: Proceed.

[Cargo bay]
TROI: You're quite right, Picard, it's not rest we seek. Only escape.
PICARD: Escape?
TROI: We were brought to this moon over five centuries ago from a star system called Ux-Mal. We were separated from our bodies and left to drift in the storms. Once we almost escaped, on board the Essex, but that ship was incapable of eluding this moon's electromagnetic storms.
PICARD: Did you really think using their identities would gain our sympathy?
TROI: It was a better approach than asking you to allow hundreds of condemned prisoners on board.
PICARD: Then this moon is a penal colony.
TROI: That's correct. But now we have your ship and your bodies to carry us home.

[Cargo bay]
TROI: No! Let them go or you will all die.
PICARD: Your threats are meaningless now.
O'BRIEN: We are still in control of these three bodies. We will not let them go.
PICARD: Are you prepared to sacrifice the lives of the others? They'll all die when the cargo bay hatch is blown.
DATA: You will die too, Picard.
KEIKO: I would die to save the life of my child.
WORF: To die defending one's ship is the hope of every Klingon.
PICARD: If you each know the officers you inhabit, then you know they're equally ready to give their lives for this ship. Free them now and I will return you to the moon's surface.
TROI: I advise you, Picard, not to pass our way again.
PICARD: Picard to Bridge.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Our guests will be leaving shortly. I need an emergency medical team down here.
CRUSHER: On our way, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Worf, prepare to transport these prisoners back down to the moon's surface.
WORF: Gladly, sir.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 45572.1. Doctor Crusher has examined Troi, Data and O'Brien. There seem to be no residual effects from their experience.

[Corridor]
TROI: It was as though my own consciousness were pushed to the side. I was watching everything happen, hearing my own voice, but not being able to control any of it.
PICARD: What about the entity that controlled you, What were your perceptions of him?
TROI: He was intelligent, actually. Thoughtful, in a ruthless sort of way. Cold.
DATA: Lieutenant, I must apologize for my inadvertent misconduct toward you.
WORF: No apology necessary.
DATA: Your restraint was most remarkable.
WORF: You have no idea.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: How do you feel?
O'BRIEN: Hungry.
CRUSHER: That's a good sign. Go home.
O'BRIEN: How do you feel?
KEIKO: I'm just glad to have you back.
O'BRIEN: If I could've killed that thing inside me, I would have.
KEIKO: I know. We both know.

[Sickbay]
WORF: What happened?
CRUSHER: The containers you were checking fell on you. You're lucky to be alive.
WORF: Doctor, I will not attempt to leave Sickbay without your approval. The restraining field is not necessary.
CRUSHER: Worf, there is no restraining field.
WORF: But I can't move my legs.
CRUSHER: I know. You can't move because one of the containers shattered seven of your vertebrae and crushed your spinal cord. I'm afraid there's no way we can repair this kind of injury.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 45587.3. Lieutenant Worf has been removed from active duty following a severe injury. Although a neuro-specialist has arrived, Doctor Crusher believes his paralysis may be permanent.

[Worf's private room]
RIKER: You look pretty good for someone who's been eating sickbay food for three days.
WORF: Please, sit down, Commander. Thank you for agreeing to see me in this condition.
RIKER: I'm not a Klingon. I don't think there's any shame in someone being injured.
WORF: I am not merely injured, Commander. Doctor Crusher believes my paralysis to be permanent.
RIKER: I'm sorry.
WORF: I have a personal favor to ask.
RIKER: Name it.
WORF: I want you to assist me in performing the Hegh'bat ceremony. I want you to help me die.
RIKER: What?
WORF: When a Klingon can no longer stand and face his enemies as a warrior, when he becomes a burden to his friends and family, it is time for the Hegh'bat. Time for him to die.
RIKER: There must be other options.
WORF: No, there are not. I will not live as an object of pity or shame. My life as a Klingon is over.
RIKER: Mister Worf, I will not help a friend commit suicide.
WORF: You and I have served together for many years. Fought side by side I know you to be a brave and honorable man. If you truly consider me a friend, help me now. Help me end my life as I have lived it, with dignity and honor. Please.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Doctor, the transport ship Denver has struck a gravitic mine left over from the Cardassian war. They've sustained heavy damage.
RIKER: Their last message said they were attempting to crash land on one of the planets in the Mericor system. We should arrive in just under seven hours.
CRUSHER: How many people were aboard?
DATA: The Denver's standard crew complement is twenty three, but they were transporting five hundred seventeen colonists to the Beloti sector.
CRUSHER: I'll need to convert all three shuttlebays to emergency triage centers. I also want all civilians with medical training to report for duty.
PICARD: Make it so.
RIKER: Captain, may I speak with you in private?
PICARD: Of course, Number One. You have the Bridge, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
RIKER: I have always tried to keep an open mind, not to judge someone else's culture by my own, but for me to be a part of this ceremony.
PICARD: I understand from Doctor Crusher that Worf will never regain the use of his legs.
RIKER: That doesn't mean his life is over.
PICARD: That's a very human perspective, Will. For a Klingon in Worf's position, his life is over.
RIKER: I can't accept that.
PICARD: Will, if you were dying, if you were terminally ill with an incurable disease and facing the remaining few days of your life in pain, wouldn't you come to look on death as a release?
RIKER: Worf isn't dying and he is not in pain. He could live a long life
PICARD: You or I could learn to live with that disability, but not Worf. His life ended when those containers fell on him. We don't have to agree with it, we don't have to understand it, but we do have to respect his beliefs.
RIKER: I can respect his beliefs, but he is asking me to take an active role in his committing suicide.
PICARD: He's asking for your help because you're his friend. That means that you're going to have to make your decision based on that friendship.
RIKER: Which leaves me back where I started.
PICARD: Will. Look, I'm sorry, I cannot help you to make this decision, but I can tell you this. Klingons choose their friends with great care. If he didn't know he could count on you, he never would have asked.

[Troi's quarters]
ALEXANDER: Why won't you let me see him?
TROI: Alexander, I told you it's not my decision. Your father doesn't want to
ALEXANDER: I don't believe you. My father wants to see me. You're the one keeping me away from him!
TROI: I think you know that's not true.
ALEXANDER: Then why can't I see him?
TROI: Come here. He's been injured, and he's embarrassed. And to have anyone see him now would make him feel worse, even if it were you.
ALEXANDER: This is part of that Klingon stuff, isn't it. My mother always said that Klingons had a lot of dumb ideas about honor.
TROI: Alexander, that Klingon stuff is very important to your father.
ALEXANDER: Well, it isn't very important to me. I don't care about being Klingon, I just want to see my father.
TROI: It's been a long day. Why don't you get ready for bed and we'll talk about this again in the morning.

[Bridge]
PICARD: We've located the survivors from the Denver.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: We're ready down here. We have triage teams standing by.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Very well. We'll begin transporting the survivors on board immediately. Bridge out.

[Worf's private room]
ALEXANDER: Father?
WORF: Come in, Alexander.
ALEXANDER: Deanna said you hurt your back, that you couldn't walk.
WORF: I am still struggling with my injury.
ALEXANDER: I was worried about you.
WORF: There is much to discuss. There will be difficult times ahead. You must be strong.
ALEXANDER: I understand.
WORF: Good. As Klingons, we must always be prepared for any
ALEXANDER: Father!
WORF: Take him away.
TROI: Worf, let me help you.
WORF: Leave!
TROI: Alexander, go on. It'll be all right. I'll take care of your father.

[Crusher's office]
PICARD: Doctor? I'm on my way to look in on your patient.
CRUSHER: Be my guest. Just don't expect a lot of conversation. He's in full Klingon mode. Honorable, strong and closed minded.
PICARD: I understand that you've relieved Doctor Russell of duty.
CRUSHER: That's right. She's irresponsible. I won't have her practicing medicine on this ship.
PICARD: Beverly, maybe you should consider letting her go ahead with this genetronic procedure.
CRUSHER: How can you say that? She has a theory, based on a little empirical knowledge and a lot of supposition.
PICARD: If he can't make a full recovery, Worf will to kill himself.
CRUSHER: Not in my Sickbay, he won't. I'll put him in a restraining field and post security around his door before I let him commit suicide.
PICARD: And how long will you keep him there? A week? A month? A year?
CRUSHER: If I have to. Suicide is not an option. Putting aside for a moment the fact that a paraplegic can live a very full life, there is also a conventional therapy that could restore much of his mobility.
PICARD: But not all of it.
CRUSHER: No, not all of it! There are some things I can't fix. Klingon or no, he is going to have to accept his condition.
PICARD: Beverly, he can't make the journey you're asking of him. You want him to go from contemplating suicide to accepting his condition and living with the disability, but it's too far. The road between covers a lifetime of values, beliefs. He can't do it, Beverly. But perhaps he can come part of the way. Maybe he can be persuaded to forgo the ritual in order to take the chance at regaining the kind of life he needs. A Klingon may not be good at accepting defeat, but he knows all about taking risks.
CRUSHER: The first tenet of good medicine is never make the patient any worse. Right now, Worf is alive and functioning. If he goes into that operation, he could come out a corpse.
PICARD: This may not be good medicine, but for Worf, it may be his only choice.

[Worf's private room]
WORF: I am ready, Commander.
RIKER: I've been studying this ritual of yours. Do you know what I've decided? I think it's despicable. I hate everything about it. The casual disregard for life, the way it tries to cloak suicide in some glorious notion of honor. I may have to respect your beliefs, but I don't have to like them.
WORF: It is not something I expect you to understand.
RIKER: No. All you really expect me to do is bring you the knife and then walk away, so you can kill yourself in peace. Well, I'm not going to make it that easy for you.
WORF: It is not easy for me. But each of us must die in our own time, and my time
RIKER: Remember Sandoval? Hit by a disruptor blast two years ago. She lived for about a week. Fang-lee? Marla Aster? Tasha Yar? How many men and women, how many friends have we watched die? I've lost count. Every one of them, every single one fought for life until the very end.
WORF: I do not welcome death, Commander.
RIKER: Are you sure? Because I get the sense you're feeling pretty noble about the whole thing. Look at me, aren't I courageous? Aren't I an honorable Klingon? Let me remind you of something. A Klingon does not put his desires above those of his family or his friends. How many people on this ship consider you a friend? How many owe you their lives? Have you ever thought about how you've affected the people around you? How we might feel about your dying?
WORF: Will you, or will you not, help me with the Hegh'bat?
RIKER: You are my friend, and in spite of everything I've said, if it were my place, I would probably help you. But I've been studying Klingon ritual and Klingon law, and I've discovered that it's not my place to fill that role. According to tradition, that honor falls to a family member. Preferably the oldest son.
WORF: That is impossible. He is a child.
RIKER: The son of a Klingon is a man the day he can first hold a blade. True?
WORF: Alexander is not fully Klingon he is part human.
RIKER: That's an excuse. What you really mean is it would be too hard for you to look at your son and tell him to bring you the knife. Watch you stab it into your heart, then pull the knife from your chest and wipe your blood on his sleeve. That's the rite of death, isn't it? Well, I'm sorry, Mister Worf. I can't help you. There's only one person on this ship who can.
ALEXANDER: You said you wanted to see me?
WORF: I need you to help me.
ALEXANDER: Anything, Father.
WORF: I have taught you about Klingon customs, the beliefs which we value. According to tradition, I must take my life after suffering this kind of injury. But I have decided to break with tradition. I have decided to live.
ALEXANDER: I'm glad, Father.
WORF: I must still undergo a dangerous operation. I may still die, but it will not be by my own hand. Return this to our quarters.
ALEXANDER: Yes, sir. Chief Medical Officer's log, supplemental. After further consultation with Starfleet Medical, and a great deal of soul searching, I have reluctantly granted Lieutenant Worf's request to undergo the genetronic procedure.

[Worf's private room]
ALEXANDER: We started doing multiplications today. The teacher said I'm faster than anybody else in my class.
WORF: We will speak again soon.
ALEXANDER: Yes, Father.
WORF: If I die, he must be cared for.
TROI: I'll make sure he reaches your parents' home safely.
WORF: No. They are elderly. They cannot care for Alexander. Counselor, I have a serious request to make of you. Would you consider?
TROI: You want me to raise Alexander?
WORF: I have come to have a great respect for you, Deanna. You have been most helpful in guiding me since Alexander's arrival. I can't imagine anyone who would be a better parent to my son. If it is too much to ask.
TROI: I'd be honored.
WORF: I am ready.

[Ready room]
RIKER: I've notified Starfleet that our survey of sector three seven six two eight will be delayed at least a week while we drop off survivors from the Denver.
PICARD: Good. I understand from Mister La Forge there's a minor fluctuation in the starboard warp coil.
RIKER: I've scheduled a stress simulation routine for this afternoon to check it out. Has there been any word?
PICARD: No.

[Sickbay]
TROI: No.
CRUSHER: Alexander, I am so sorry.
ALEXANDER: I want to see him.
TROI: Alex.
ALEXANDER: No! I want to see him.

[Worf's private room]
CRUSHER: This is going to take time, Worf. Your muscles are still sorting out their new signals. Don't rush it.
TROI: Alexander, remember what we talked about? Your father wants to do this by himself.
WORF: It's all right, Counselor. I would appreciate some help from my son. We will work together.
ALEXANDER: Yes, sir.

[Data's quarters]
TROI: All right. This hand, the game is Federation Day.
WORF: What is that?
TROI: Well, the Federation was founded in Twenty One Sixty One, so, twos, sixes, and aces are wild.
WORF: That is a woman's game.
TROI: Oh? Why is that?
WORF: All those wild cards. They support a weak hand. A man's game has no wild cards.
CRUSHER: Let me get this straight. Are you saying it's a woman's game because women are weak and need more help?
WORF: Yes.
CRUSHER: And just this afternoon I was insisting to one of the J'naii that those attitudes were but a distant memory.
WORF: The J'naii. They bother me.
TROI: Why, Worf?
WORF: They just do. They're all alike. No males, no females.
TROI: Well I'm sure we're just as strange to them.
CRUSHER: Well one of them seems to be overcoming the differences, at least in regards to one of us.
WORF: What are you saying, Doctor?
CRUSHER: I could be wrong, but I get the definite impression that Soren is attracted to Commander Riker.
WORF: A human and a J'naii? Impossible.
DATA: Why?
TROI: Good question. Worf?
WORF: With all these wild cards, it is difficult to know exactly what is in my hand. However, I will open with fifty.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Proceed, Mister Data.
DATA: Initiating pre-launch sequence.
RIKER: Request flight clearance.
DATA: Clearance is granted. The shuttle is under way, sir.
PICARD: Good hunting, Commander.
RIKER: Thank you, sir. See you for dinner.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Come in. Hello, Will.
RIKER: What's all this?
TROI: Wonderful things. My mother sent me a box that belonged to one of my father's ancestors. It was stored on Earth and just recently turned up.
RIKER: Do you know who any of these people are?
TROI: No. Some of the pictures have names on, but most of them don't. I look at these faces and I wonder who they are and if they could be related to me.
RIKER: This one looks like you. Deanna, I have something on my mind. I had to see you.
TROI: Has something happened?
RIKER: I've met someone. Someone who's becoming important to me.
TROI: Soren.
RIKER: Yes. You're my friend. I thought, I don't know, I thought I should tell you.
TROI: I'm glad you did.
RIKER: Nothing will change between us, will it?
TROI: Of course it will. All relationships are constantly changing. But we'll still be friends, maybe better friends. You're a part of my life, and I'm a part of yours. That much will always be true.

[Ready room]
RIKER: I can't just leave her there. They'll give her these psychotectic treatments. I don't know what to do.
PICARD: Well, I could talk to Noor. Perhaps there's a way to work something out.
RIKER: Sir, their minds are set. They don't want to hear another alternative.
PICARD: Then I'm not sure that there's much that we can do.
RIKER: There has to be. My relationship with Soren is not trivial. She's very important to me. It's my fault that this happened. I have to help her.
PICARD: Will, if you've come here for sanction to take matters into your own hands, I can't give it to you.
RIKER: I know that, but I have to do something.
PICARD: Interfering in the internal matters of the J'naii is prohibited by the Prime Directive.
RIKER: I'm aware of that.
PICARD: If you violate it, you may jeopardizing your career. Starfleet doesn't take these matters lightly, Will. I can't defend you if you go too far. Do you understand that?
RIKER: You've made yourself very clear, sir.
PICARD: Don't risk everything you've worked for.
RIKER: Thank you. May I be excused now?

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Who is it?
WORF: Lieutenant Worf.
RIKER: Come in.
WORF: Commander, I have the plan for deploying warning buoys around the null space.
RIKER: Fine. Leave it, I'll take a look at it later.
WORF: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Thank you. You're dismissed.
WORF: Commander, I am aware of what transpired on the planet surface. Are you by any chance considering an unannounced visit? I will go with you.
RIKER: Lieutenant.
WORF: Sir, you are my commanding officer. If you order me to stay on board, I will obey. But I ask you not to give that order. A warrior does not let a friend face danger alone.

[Someone's quarters]
RIKER: Sometimes I wonder if he's stacking the deck.
DATA: I assure you, Commander, the cards are sufficiently randomized.
WORF: I hope so.
DATA: Eight, Ace, Queen. The dealer receives a four.
WORF: No bet.
DATA: Ten. Seven. No help there. A pair of ladies for the Doctor. The dealer receives a nine. Doctor? May I remind you since you show the highest hand, you control the next bet.
CRUSHER: Thank you, Data. I bet ten. Worf?
DATA: Jack. Four. Deuce. Six.
CRUSHER: Twenty.
RIKER: Your twenty, and fifty more.
WORF: Fifty?
CRUSHER: I'm in.
DATA: I will also see the bet. Seven. A possible straight for Commander Riker. Jack. Still no help for the Klingon. Eight. Nine for the dealer.
CRUSHER: Twenty.
DATA: Too rich for my blood.
RIKER: Your twenty, one hundred more.
WORF: Fold.
CRUSHER: Two hundred.
RIKER: Your two, and three hundred more.
WORF: He does not have a straight.
CRUSHER: We'll soon find out, won't we. Let's see your cards.
RIKER: Take it. How'd you know I was bluffing?
CRUSHER: I just had a feeling.
RIKER: I guess it's better to be lucky than good.
CRUSHER: It's the way your left eyebrow raises when your bluffing. Just kidding, Commander.
OGAWA: Ogawa to Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER: Go ahead.
OGAWA: Commander La Forge needs you in Sickbay.
CRUSHER: On my way.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: At first I thought the catwalk was spinning. As it turns out, it was me. Luckily Ensign Fletcher was there to grab me. It's a long way down to the bottom of the warp core.
CRUSHER: You have all the symptoms of an inner ear infection. That would explain the dizziness and the headaches. But there's no physical evidence. My guess is you've been working too hard.
LAFORGE: I have been putting a lot of extra hours on this Typhon Expanse project.
CRUSHER: I'll give you twenty cc's of vertazine. That should clear up the dizziness. But finding time to relax is up to you.
LAFORGE: What? What is it?
CRUSHER: Geordi, have you had these symptoms before?
LAFORGE: No.
CRUSHER: You're sure?
LAFORGE: Yeah, I'm positive. Why?
CRUSHER: It's funny. I feel like we've discussed this before, and I remember giving you a hypospray for dizziness.
LAFORGE: I've never had these symptoms before today, so you must be thinking about another patient.
CRUSHER: No. I'm sure it was you. Well, try to get some rest, and try to stay away from high places for a few days, just in case.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Doc.
CRUSHER: Goodnight.
LAFORGE: Goodnight.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: As you can see, the Typhon Expanse is huge. If we want to chart the most remote star system, we'll have to launch a probe within the next few hours.
RIKER: Fine. What about the luminosity studies?
LAFORGE: That may pose a problem.
PICARD: How so?
LAFORGE: The flux spectrometers are still down for re-alignment.
RIKER: I thought they were supposed to be back online yesterday.
LAFORGE: They were, until the stellar dynamics lab decided they needed to installl new modules.
DATA: I recommend we use a gravitron polarimeter. It will perform a similar function.
PICARD: Make it so, Mister Data.
CRUSHER: Captain, I have something I'd like to report.
PICARD: Yes, Doctor?
CRUSHER: I heard voices in my room last night. I was alone, so at first I thought I was imagining things. But this morning, ten other people reported hearing them at the same time I did.
TROI: What were the voices saying?
CRUSHER: I couldn't make them out.
RIKER: Data, did the sensors pick up anything unusual last night?
DATA: No anomalous readings were reported.
RIKER: When we're through here, re-check the sensor logs.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Counselor?
TROI: I sensed nothing unusual last night.
LAFORGE: Maybe it's a problem with the comm. system.
WORF: Bridge to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead.
WORF: We are getting unusual readings twenty thousand kilometers off the starboard bow.
PICARD: On our way.

[Someone's quarters]
RIKER: Sometimes I wonder if he's stacking the deck.
DATA: I assure you, Commander, the cards have been sufficiently randomized.
WORF: I hope so.
DATA: Eight. Ace. Queen. The dealer receives a four.
WORF: No bet.
DATA: Ten. Seven. No help there. A pair of ladies for the Doctor. Dealer receives a nine. Doctor? May I remind you since you show the highest hand, you control the next bet.
WORF: Is there something wrong, Doctor?
CRUSHER: No. I bet ten.
DATA: Jack. Four. Deuce. Six.
CRUSHER: Twenty.
RIKER: Your twenty and I'll raise you fifty. You're going to call my bluff, aren't you. I think I'll quit while I'm ahead.
CRUSHER: How did you know I was going to call your bluff?
RIKER: I just had a feeling.
CRUSHER: Me too.
OGAWA: Ogawa to Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER: Go ahead.
OGAWA: Commander La Forge needs you in Sickbay.
CRUSHER: On my way.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: At first I thought the catwalk was spinning. As it turns out, it was me. I was lucky Ensign Fletcher was there to grab me. It's a long way down to the bottom of the warp core.
CRUSHER: You have all the symptoms of an inner ear infection. That would explain your the headaches and the dizziness. But there's no physical
LAFORGE: What? What is it?
CRUSHER: Geordi, have you ever had these symptoms before?
LAFORGE: Now that you mention it, I think I have.
CRUSHER: Do you recall when?
LAFORGE: No, I don't.
CRUSHER: We've had this discussion before and I know I've given you this examination. Let's check the medical logs. You've been treated several times for headaches related to your visor, but I read no mention of dizziness.
LAFORGE: Must be dj vu.
CRUSHER: Both of us? About the same thing?

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: Crusher to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Yes, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Do you have a minute, Jean-Luc?

[Ready room]
PICARD: My Aunt Adele cured a lot of sleepless nights with this steamed milk.
CRUSHER: Thank you. Mmm, nutmeg.
PICARD: Whenever I get insomnia, I try to perfect the recipe.
CRUSHER: It was the eeriest feeling. When the glass broke, it triggered the sensation even more intensely that I'd done it all before.
PICARD: You know, earlier, I was reading this book, and I had the distinct feeling I'd read certain paragraphs before. But I assumed I'd read the book years ago and I'd forgotten.
CRUSHER: I've had this feeling for hours. And then the voices.
PICARD: Well, it could be nothing more than the result of a sleepless night. But let's be sure. Have Data and Geordi run a shipwide diagnostic, concentrating on the time and place you heard the voices, and we'll discuss the results tomorrow at seven hundred hours.
CRUSHER: Thank you. For everything.
PICARD: Thank Aunt Adele.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: The internal scans were negative. There was no evidence of auditory anomalies anywhere on the ship.
LAFORGE: As far as the sensors are concerned, nothing unusual happened last night.
CRUSHER: Ten other people reported hearing voices at the same time I did.
WORF: Bridge to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead.
WORF: We are getting unusual readings twenty thousand kilometers off the starboard bow.
PICARD: On our way.

[Somebody's quarters]
RIKER: Sometimes I wonder if he's stacking the deck.
DATA: I assure you, Commander, the cards are sufficiently randomized.
WORF: I hope so.
RIKER: Something wrong, Mister Worf?
WORF: I am experiencing nIb'poH, the feeling I have done this before.
RIKER: Yeah, last Tuesday night.
WORF: That's not what I mean.
CRUSHER: I've been having the same feeling. Keep dealing, Data.
DATA: Eight. Ace.
CRUSHER: A Queen. You're going to give me a Queen. And you're going to get a four. Deal, Data.
DATA: But no one has bet.
CRUSHER: Forget the bet. Just deal. Ten, seven, queen.
WORF: Nine. Jack. Four.
RIKER: Deuce. Six.
DATA: This is highly improbable.
RIKER: How did we know?
CRUSHER: Wait. Crusher to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
OGAWA: Sickbay here.
CRUSHER: Is Commander La Forge there?
OGAWA: No, Doctor, he's not. Wait a minute. He just came in.
PICARD: You wanted to see me, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Yes. Captain, have you been getting the feeling that you've experienced certain things before? A sense of repetition?
PICARD: Yes, recently. While I was reading. Why do you ask?
CRUSHER: There have been similar incidents reported all over the ship. Feelings of dj vu. I had a premonition Geordi was going to come in to Sickbay. A few seconds later he did, with the symptoms of an ear infection. I was going to run the standard tests, but somehow I had a feeling they would turn out negative. So I ran an optical diagnostic which traced the problem to Geordi's visor. His dizziness is being caused by a phase shift in his visual receptors. It's causing him to see images that aren't there.
LAFORGE: They're like blurry after-images.
CRUSHER: I ran a scan to see if I could detect what he was seeing. I picked up miniscule distortions in the surrounding dekyon field. Somehow, his visor is translating those distortions into visual impulses.
LAFORGE: It could be a malfunction in the ship's warp field generator. I'll check it out.
PICARD: Run a localized subspace scan to look for anything else.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Keep me advised.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: Crusher to Commander La Forge.
LAFORGE: La Forge here.
CRUSHER: Geordi, I just heard what sounded like voices in my room, but no one else is here.
LAFORGE: Sensors just picked up something strange, too. We're checking it out.
CRUSHER: I'm on my way.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Looks like you managed to record six point two seconds worth. Let's see if we can filter the signal and clear it up a little bit.
CRUSHER: Then I wasn't just hearing things?
DATA: The sound itself appears to have been real. However the acoustic energy does not correspond to any ship's system, nor to any voice communications sent at the time you heard it.
CRUSHER: Then where did the sound come from?
LAFORGE: You heard the voices at the same time our localized subspace scan picked up a dekyon field distortion. The two may be related. Let's give another listen.
DATA: Computer, perform a narrow bandwidth analysis. Eliminate all non-vocal waveform components.
CRUSHER: Can we isolate the voices? Find out what they're saying?
DATA: Computer, continuous playback please. There are approximately one thousand voices overlapping. The voices are those of the Enterprise crew. Our voices.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: I'm sorry to call you here so early, but we couldn't wait until oh seven hundred hours. We think we may have an explanation for the odd occurrences around here. Commander.
LAFORGE: This is going to sound pretty wild. Somehow, we've entered what seems to be a temporal causality loop. We think we're stuck in a particular fragment in time, and we've been repeating that same fragment over and over again.
TROI: Is this what's causing our dj vu?
CRUSHER: Yes, but it's more than that. In dj vu, you only think you're repeating events. We actually are.
LAFORGE: Our theory is this. Every time the loop begins again, everything resets itself, and starts all over. We don't remember anything that happened before, so each time through the loop, we think it's the first.
RIKER: You mean we could have come into this room, sat at this table and had this conversation a dozen times already?
LAFORGE: A dozen, a hundred, it's impossible to tell. We could have been trapped here for hours, days, maybe years.
CRUSHER: If what we're saying is true, those voices I heard might have been echoes from previous loops.
LAFORGE: It's the same thing with the phase shift in my visor. After-images in time.
PICARD: If you're right about this, how did it happen? How did we get there?
DATA: I have a hypothesis that may explain that, Captain. I have analyzed the recording Doctor Crusher made. Most of it is quite ordinary. One hundred fifty discussions about ship operations, two hundred fifty two conversations of a personal nature, five couples engaged in romantic encounters.
PICARD: Your point, Mister Data?
DATA: There is evidence of some sort of disaster aboard the Enterprise, severe enough that the Captain ordered all hands to abandon ship. I have isolated three segments of the recording that are crucial.
WORF: A highly localized distortion of the space-time continuum.
DATA: Collision course. Impact in thirty six seconds.
PICARD: All hands, abandon ship! Repeat, all hands abandon
LAFORGE: Worf refers to a distortion. If this were a temporal distortion, and if we were close enough to it, it's possible that a large enough explosion might've ruptured the space-time continuum. We collided, exploded, then got stuck in this repeating loop of time.
PICARD: If you're right, perhaps we could escape the loop by avoiding the collision.
LAFORGE: That's our guess.
WORF: Maybe we should reverse course.
RIKER: For all we know, reversing course may be what leads us into the crash.
PICARD: No. We can't afford to start second guessing ourselves. We'll stay on this course until we have reason to change it. But let's do everything we can to avoid the collision.
LAFORGE: Captain, we might not be able to figure out how to avoid this accident until it's too late. And if the loop begins again, we'll forget everything we've learned this time around.
PICARD: What do you suggest?
LAFORGE: If we do find a way to avoid this collision, we should try to send that information into the next loop.
RIKER: Is that possible?
DATA: We have seen that echoes, or after-images, from previous loops appear as distortions in the dekyon field. We may be able to send a deliberate echo into the next loop.
TROI: Like a message in a bottle.
LAFORGE: Exactly. We could enhance a dekyon emission to create a specific pattern and send ourselves a message. Not a long one, probably only a few characters. Maybe one word.
RIKER: How do we know we'll pick up that word the next time through?
DATA: If the dekyon emission is modulated correctly, it will set up resonances in my positronic subprocessors. I will receive the information on what you would call a subconscious level.
LAFORGE: Now there's the catch. We have no way of knowing how this information will be perceived by Data. It might be like a posthypnotic suggestion.
PICARD: Even with all these uncertainties, we've got to try. Take whatever steps are necessary to send a message. Dismissed.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: You know, it's possible we've tried this a thousand times and it's never worked.
CRUSHER: Do you have a feeling that you've done this before?
LAFORGE: No, I don't.
CRUSHER: Neither do I. Maybe that's a good sign.
LAFORGE: Let's test the emitter.
DATA: Particle accelerators at full power.
LAFORGE: Dekyon field active. Particle flux nominal. We're in business.
CRUSHER: All we need now is a message.
RIKER: Senior officers, report to the Bridge.
CRUSHER: On our way.

[Someone's quarters]
RIKER: Sometimes I wonder if he's stacking the deck.
DATA: I assure you, Commander, the cards are sufficiently randomized.
WORF: I hope so.
RIKER: Something wrong, Mister Worf?
WORF: I am experiencing nIb'poH. The feeling I have done this before.
RIKER: Yeah, last Tuesday night.
WORF: That is not what I mean.
CRUSHER: I've been having the same feeling. Wait. An eight, an Ace, a Queen and a four. Deal the cards, Data.
DATA: Three. All threes.
CRUSHER: I was positive I knew what cards were going to be dealt.
WORF: I was also sure.
RIKER: Finish dealing the hand.
RIKER: Look at this, we've all got three of a kind.
CRUSHER: First we get a three, and then three of a kind.
OGAWA: Ogawa to Doctor Crusher.
CRUSHER: Go ahead.
OGAWA: Commander La Forge needs you in Sickbay.
CRUSHER: I'm on my way.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: At first I thought the catwalk was spinning. As it turns out, it was me. I was lucky Ensign Fletcher was there to grab me. It's a long way down to the bottom of the warp core.
CRUSHER: You have all the symptoms of an inner ear infection. That would explain the headaches, dizziness. But I don't see any physical
LAFORGE: What? What is it?
CRUSHER: Geordi, have you ever had these symptoms before?
LAFORGE: Now that you mention it, I think I have.
CRUSHER: Do you recall when?
LAFORGE: No, I don't.
CRUSHER: I know we've had this discussion before, and I remember giving you this examination. Let's check the medical logs. You've been treated several times for headaches related to your visor but there's no mention of dizziness.
LAFORGE: Must be dj vu.
CRUSHER: Both of us? About the same thing? I'd like to run an optical diagnostic.
LAFORGE: For an ear infection?
CRUSHER: I have a hunch. Hold still. This pulse may be a little bright. Have you made any changes to your visor lately?
LAFORGE: No. Why?
CRUSHER: I'm detecting a small phase shift in your visual receptors.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: Crusher to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Yes, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Can you come to Sickbay immediately? It's urgent.
PICARD: I'm on my way.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: His dizziness is being caused by a phase shift in his visual receptors. It's causing him to see things that aren't there.
LAFORGE: They're like blurry after-images.
CRUSHER: I ran a scan to see if I could detect what he was seeing. I picked up miniscule distortions in the surrounding dekyon field. His visor seems to be translating those distortions into visual impulses.
LAFORGE: Could be a malfunction in the ship's warp field generator. I'll check it out.
PICARD: While you're at it, run a localized subspace scan to look for anything unusual.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Keep me advised, Doctor.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Lateral sensors online. Subspace scanners active. Data, would you run a level two diagnostic on the warp subsystems?
DATA: Certainly.
LAFORGE: All threes. that can't be right.
DATA: I have encountered the numeral three an inordinate number of times over the last two hours.
LAFORGE: We have got a dekyon field fluctuation on deck nine, section twenty eight.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Commander La Forge.
LAFORGE: La Forge here.
CRUSHER: I just heard what sounded like voices in my room, but there's no one here.
LAFORGE: Sensors just picked up something strange, too. We're checking it out.
CRUSHER: I'm on my way down.
LAFORGE: Doctor Crusher, are you all right?
CRUSHER: I'm fine.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, Starfleet Academy is requesting an update on our estimated arrival.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: We should be arriving at Earth in ten hours sixteen minutes, sir.
PICARD: Please inform the Academy, Mister Worf, and send my regards to Superintendant Brand.
WORF: Aye, sir.
TROI: Do you know Admiral Brand?
PICARD: We've met a few times. She's a formidable woman.
RIKER: Sounds like my superintendent. When I was at the Academy, we had a Vulcan Superintendent who had memorized the personnel files of every single cadet. He knew everything about them. It was like having your parents around all the time.
PICARD: My superintendent was a Betazoid, a full telepath. When he sent for you to his office, he didn't have to ask what you'd done.
RIKER: You got called into the superintendent's office? That's a story I'd like to hear.
WORF: Sir, we are being hailed again by the Academy. It is Admiral Brand.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: Sir, she is requesting a private channel.
PICARD: In my Ready room.

[Crusher's office]
PICARD: He had second degree burns on his chest and multiple fractures of his right arm, but he's going to be fine.
CRUSHER: Have they completed the regeneration series?
PICARD: I'm not certain.
CRUSHER: Wesley's allergic to metorapan treatments. I think they'll have to use a bicaridine substitute. I should send his complete records to the Academy infirmary. Of course, they probably have them already, but you can't be too sure.
PICARD: Beverly. He's fine.
CRUSHER: I know he's fine. I know he's fine. How did it happen?
PICARD: Apparently, his squadron was practicing on the Academy flight range near Saturn. they were flying a close formation. There was a collision. All five ships were destroyed. Four of the cadets managed to transport out. One didn't make it.
CRUSHER: Do you know who it was?
PICARD: Yes. His name was Joshua Albert.
CRUSHER: Wesley spoke of him. They were friends. Wesley was so excited to make the flight team. Of course, I was a little nervous, but I was proud of him. I always knew there was a chance that something like this might
PICARD: Beverly, Wesley's alive and he's well.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I don't know, Captain. The Academy has one of the best reconstructive analysis labs in Starfleet. I'm not sure there's much we could contribute to the investigation.
PICARD: Yes, that may well be. But Wesley's one of our own.
LAFORGE: Understood, sir. We'll get right on it.
PICARD: Good. I've spoken with Admiral Brand and she's agreed to allow us access to all of the physical evidence and testimony. Thank you, gentlemen.

[Wesley's room]
CRUSHER: Everything's going to be okay, Wesley. There must be an explanation for all this. Data and Geordi are already analyzing the flight recorder and the satellite transmission.
WESLEY: Why?
CRUSHER: There must be something wrong with the satellite data. It might have been tampered with.
WESLEY: Mom.
CRUSHER: Well, there must be some explanation for this. I know you're telling the truth but the satellite data made it look as if you were lying. I've spoken with the other parents. I am going to talk to Admiral Brand and ask her to delay the inquiry
WESLEY: Mom. Don't. You can't do that.
CRUSHER: I'm not going to let them ruin your career, Wesley. You haven't done anything wrong.
WESLEY: Mom, don't try to protect me. Please stay out of this.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Report.
LAFORGE: Nothing conclusive. We do know that the collision occurred about four seconds after the satellite images were recorded, but we still don't know how the ships got into the new formation or why the crash occurred.
DATA: We unsuccessfully tried fifty three different computational models in an effort to simulate the movements of the Nova Squadron just prior to the crash.
LAFORGE: There're just too many variables to take into consideration. Speed, attitude, course.
PICARD: Did Wesley's flight recorder indicate that there was anything unusual about the ship or the way it was operating?
LAFORGE: The starboard power flow was fluctuating.
DATA: However it was well within operational limits.
LAFORGE: Fluidic pressure in the landing struts was low, but I don't know what difference that would make.
DATA: We did find that Wesley opened his coolant interlock just before beginning the maneuver around Titan.
LAFORGE: That is a bit unusual. Normally the interlock is closed unless you're performing a check on the engine coolant levels. But there's no evidence Wesley was performing that sort of check.
PICARD: Filling the primary coolant tanks requires an open interlock but that can only be performed in a maintenance bay. Is there any other reason for opening the valve?
LAFORGE: It's the first step in purging the plasma exhaust.
DATA: That procedure would be extremely hazardous while the ship was in flight.
LAFORGE: Yeah, the engine would probably ignite the plasma.
PICARD: Ignite the plasma. That's exactly what they were trying to do.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
WESLEY: Captain.
PICARD: Can you tell me what maneuver this is?
WESLEY: It's a Kolvoord Starburst, sir.
PICARD: Five ships crossing within ten meters of each other and igniting their plasma trails. One of the most spectacular and difficult demonstrations of precision flying. It hasn't been performed at the Academy team in over a hundred years. Do you know why?
WESLEY: It was banned by the Academy following a training accident, sir.
PICARD: An accident in which all five cadets lost their lives. I think that Nicholas Locarno wanted to end his Academy career in a blaze of glory. That he convinced the four of you to learn the Kolvoord Starburst for the commencement demonstration. If it worked, you would thrill the assembled guests and Locarno would graduate as a living legend. Only it didn't work, and Joshua Albert paid the price. Am I correct? Cadet, I asked you a question. Am I correct?
WESLEY: I choose not to answer, sir.
PICARD: You choose not to answer? But you've already given an answer to the inquiry, and that answer was a lie.
WESLEY: I said the accident occurred after the loop. It did.
PICARD: What you neglected to mention was that following the loop your team attempted a maneuver that was the direct cause of the crash. You told the truth up to a point. But a lie of omission is still a lie. Do you remember the day you first came aboard this ship? Your mother brought you on the Bridge.
WESLEY: Yes.
PICARD: You even sat in my chair. I was annoyed. Presumptuous child playing on my ship. But I never forgot how you already knew every control, every display. You behaved as though you belonged on the Bridge. And then later when I decided to make you an acting ensign, I was convinced you could be an outstanding officer. I've never questioned that conviction, until now. The first duty of every Starfleet officer is to the truth. Whether it's scientific truth, or historical truth, or personal truth. It is the guiding principle upon which Starfleet is based. If you can't find it within yourself to stand up and tell the truth about what happened you don't deserve to wear that uniform. I'm going to make this simple for you, Mister Crusher. Either you come forward and tell Admiral Brand what really took place, or I will.
WESLEY: Captain
PICARD: Dismissed.

[Academy gardens]
PICARD: Mister Locarno has been expelled.
WESLEY: They should've expelled all of us.
PICARD: They very nearly did. Mister Locarno made an impassioned plea for the rest of you. He said that he'd used his influence as squadron leader to convince you to attempt the Kolvoord maneuver and then to cover up the truth. He asked to take full responsibility.
WESLEY: He did exactly what he said he would. He protected the team. I feel awful. I've let down everyone. My mother, my friends, you.
PICARD: You should feel bad, and you will pay for what you've done. Admiral Brand has decided that in addition to a formal reprimand, your academic credits for the past year will be canceled and you will not advance with your class.
WESLEY: I understand.
PICARD: It's not going to be easy, staying here on campus, everyone knowing what you did. You have difficult times ahead.
WESLEY: Yes, sir. Thank you, Captain.
PICARD: You knew what you had to do. I just made sure you listened to yourself. Goodbye, Cadet.
WESLEY: Goodbye, Captain.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Married? She's getting married?
RIKER: Yes. If we stay on our present course, we should rendezvous with her intended groom in thirty one hours.
PICARD: I will not continue have that woman continuing to use this ship for her convenience, simply because her daughter happens to be one of my officers.
RIKER: Apparently, Deanna being on board is only part of the reason.
PICARD: The other reason being?
RIKER: She thinks the honor of giving away the bride should fall on you.
PICARD: Permission for an on-board wedding is granted, Number One. Nothing would please me more than to give away Mrs. Troi.

[Engineering]
DATA: A level-four diagnostic of the food replication systems has failed to detect any faults in the orientation terminals.
LAFORGE: That may be, but we've still got over two hundred reports of malfunctioning replicators.
DATA: There is an energy fluctuation in one of the utility access corridors.
LAFORGE: Well, we'd better look into it, whatever it is, before the captain decides to order dinner.

[Jefferies tube]
LAFORGE: Yeah, dash six four. Here we are. Some kind of intermittent EM field pattern. Give me a hand with that, will you, Data? There's no plasma leakage, just a little negative ion charging.

[Bridge]
DATA: We have traced the failure to a data net interface which routes replicator selections to the correct subprocessors.
LAFORGE: When we opened the panel, we discovered that the interface had been transformed into a gelatinous material that we haven't been able to identify.
WORF: We have an intermittent failure of the inertial damping system.
PICARD: Take us out of warp, Ensign.
RIKER: Primary attitude control has failed. Going to secondary systems.
DATA: We have lost helm control, sir.
RIKER: Try a manual bypass of the damping systems.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Backup generators.
LAFORGE: Coming online now.
PICARD: How long before we regain attitude control?
LAFORGE: We're almost there.
RIKER: Ensign, put us back on course. Let's stay at impulse for now.
PICARD: Did something hit us, Mister Worf?
WORF: Negative, sir.
PICARD: The inertial dampers shouldn't fail without kicking in the automatic bypass. I want to know what went wrong. Analysis in thirty minutes.

[Worf's quarters]
ALEXANDER: Ha! Ha!
WORF: Eat, son.
ALEXANDER: Ha!
WORF: What are you doing? What is that noise?
ALEXANDER: Ha! It's my laughing hour. Ha! Ha!
WORF: That is enough, please. It is your dinner hour. Eat.
ALEXANDER: Ha! I promised to meet Mrs. Troi for another lesson in happy wisdom. Ha!
WORF: Will you stop doing that, please? Alexander, eat your food. Wisdom will wait, I assure you.
ALEXANDER: I promised. Should I break my promise, Father?
WORF: A Klingon ever breaks his word.
WORF: Where are you going?
ALEXANDER: You said no Klingon ever breaks his word.
WORF: I did not mean now. Now just sit down and eat.
ALEXANDER: I don't understand, Father. You're confusing me.
WORF: Understand later. Just eat.
ALEXANDER: Father? The higher, the fewer.

[Engineering]
DATA: The dilithium chamber shows no anomalous readings.
LAFORGE: So far, these transfer conduits are clean, too. Hold on, I'm getting something here. There's a severe energy fluctuation in this access panel.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Once we saw that photonic trail moving through the wall, we realized we must be dealing with a metal parasite of some kind.
DATA: We believe the parasites came through the ship's hull after we destroyed the asteroid near Tessen Three.
PICARD: Are they attacking anything other than nitrium alloy?
LAFORGE: No, sir, not that we can tell. But we've got nitrium everywhere. The computers, the life support, the ventilation, the engines, even the dilithium chamber.
PICARD: Mister Data, the asteroid we destroyed. That was rich in nitrium.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: And that asteroid came from the Pelloris Field. If the rest of that field is rich in nitrium, it would make a natural feeding ground.
LAFORGE: We should think about going back there. The parasites could possibly be lured back to the asteroids for a meal that's more appealing than we are.
PICARD: Mister Data, how long to the field?
DATA: At warp nine, five hours twenty minutes, sir.
PICARD: Picard to the Bridge
RIKER: Riker here, sir.
PICARD: Set a course for the Pelloris asteroid field, warp nine.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
DATA: Captain, with our sensors unable to detect the parasites and given the speed with which they appear to be moving through the ship
PICARD: We may not have five hours and twenty minutes. I'm aware of that. How can we slow them down?
DATA: In several cases, an exanogen gas barrier has been known to slow the progress of metal parasites.
PICARD: They don't like cold, eh? Make it so.
LAFORGE: The problem is finding them. As soon as we spot an energy fluctuation, they've already consumed all the nitrium and have moved on.
LAFORGE: Primary power systems are going down. I've rerouted to the secondary generators.
PICARD: Inform the Bridge. Mister Data, with me.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Bridge. Commander, do you have any suggestions on how we could encourage the parasites to leave the ship once we reach the Pelloris Field?
DATA: If we reconfigure a particle beam with a high concentration of nitrium, and project it toward one of the asteroids.
PICARD: Then they would follow the beam like a trail of breadcrumbs. Very well.
DATA: Turbolift velocity is beginning to fluctuate, Captain.
PICARD: Computer, stop at next level. Computer, acknowledge.
DATA: We have reached the bridge, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report, Number One.
RIKER: Ventilation and life support are failing at random spots all over the ship.
WORF: Captain, we've dropped to warp five point seven.
PICARD: Picard to Engineering.
LAFORGE: La Forge here.
PICARD: What's happening, Mister La Forge? We're losing speed.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: The parasites must've gotten into the primary warp controllers, Captain. Trying to do a bypass patch to isolate the backup controllers but it looks like warp six is about the best I'm going to be able to give you.

[Bridge]
PICARD: At that speed, Mister La Forge, there won't be a ship left to reach the Pelloris Field. Do what you have to.
LAFORGE: Working on it, sir.
DATA: Captain, we're losing life support on decks eleven and twelve.
PICARD: Mister Worf, have security evacuate all personnel from those decks.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Engineering to Bridge. We've got warp six point five but I don't know how much more coaxing

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We can do here.
PICARD: We need more speed than that, Commander.
LAFORGE: The matter-antimatter

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Injectors are failing. I'm rerouting to secondary injector power now. Watch the antimatter containment for any system failure.

[Bridge]
DATA: The Ferengi report their containment field is collapsing.
WORF: Within visual range, Captain.
PICARD: On screen.
DATA: Their reactor core is unstable, Captain.
PICARD: How many on board?
DATA: Two, sir.
RIKER: Bridge to transporter room three. Boost your output and lock on to the two Ferengi on board the shuttle.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Energize.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Mister Worf, escort our Ferengi guests to quarters. Not too close to mine.
WORF: Understood.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Deck seven. Picard to Worf.
WORF: Worf here, Captain.
PICARD: Lieutenant, one of the Ferengi just waylaid Ambassador Briam. I need you to keep them on a tight leash.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I don't want them disrupting this conference.
WORF: Aye, sir. Security to cargo bay one.
RIKER: Lieutenant?
WORF: One of the Ferengi.
RIKER: Riker to Captain Picard.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Riker to bridge. If you need me, I'll be in holodeck four.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: How can you simply deliver her like a courier into a life of virtual prostitution.
PICARD: Beverly! Arranged marriages have been the basis of political alliances in many cultures, including our own.
CRUSHER: I'm surprised at you.
PICARD: She knows exactly what she's doing.
CRUSHER: She has been conditioned since the day she was born to believe it's perfectly acceptable to exist only to please men.
PICARD: She was born to do this.
CRUSHER: And bred by those people to seal a treaty with a seductive coup de grace.
PICARD: All right, fine, good, let's throw the Prime Directive to the winds. Let's detain her against her will. Let's destroy any chance of peace between these worlds. Let's interfere in their society, their customs.
CRUSHER: That slave trader who calls himself an ambassador, he has confined her to her quarters. She is a virtual prisoner in there.
PICARD: I didn't know that.
CRUSHER: Well, it is your ship. Maybe there are a few things you should find out about.
PICARD: I'll talk to her about it.
CRUSHER: Good. Lovely breakfast.
PICARD: Indeed.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: Quiet this morning.
PICARD: I'm sorry.
CRUSHER: Penny?
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: For your thoughts. Penny for your thoughts.
PICARD: Do you have one?
CRUSHER: I'm sure the replicator will have one on file.
PICARD: Beverly, may I take off the uniform for a moment?
CRUSHER: Captain.
PICARD: I need to talk to a friend.
CRUSHER: Of course.
PICARD: Actually, it's all your fault.
CRUSHER: Mine?
PICARD: You insisted I look into her situation.
CRUSHER: The metamorph?
PICARD: The metamorph. Kamala. I've spent quite a lot of time with her the past few days, and you're right about several things, but, Beverly, her entire existence has been orchestrated for this moment and she intends to go through with it to help her people end the war.
CRUSHER: And you're saying there's nothing you can do about it?
PICARD: It isn't that simple. I barely know who she is, and who she is changes the moment the next man comes into the room. And I find myself hoping that the next man won't come in. But, of course, he does, and in a few hours, the ceremony will begin and she will mate with a man who cares more about trade agreements than he cares about her. And I can't help thinking how she will be with him. How she will change to accommodate him.
CRUSHER: I wish I knew how I could help.
PICARD: Perhaps I just needed a shoulder.
CRUSHER: Oh, it's there for you, Jean-Luc. It always has been.

[Corridor]
DATA: In order for the lateral sensors to complete their scheduled observations, additional processing time will be required.
LAFORGE: We could steal a couple of hours from the Engineering team while they're recalibrating the thermal interferometery scanner.
DATA: Will two hours be enough time to complete the high-resolution series on the neutron star?
LAFORGE: No problem. We'll just double up the main sensor bandwidth while they're freeing up the lateral unit.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: And then after dinner, then what?
OGAWA: We went to the holodeck and took a walk on the Champs Elysees.
CRUSHER: The neural scanner still seems to be a bit off. Let's check the sensor calibrations.
OGAWA: I'll run a diagnostic.
CRUSHER: And?
OGAWA: And?
CRUSHER: After Paris?
OGAWA: He has shore leave next month. He asked me to go to Risa with him.
CRUSHER: No problem. Nurse McClukidge can cover for you.
OGAWA: I don't think I'm going, Doctor. I hear it's a very uninhibited atmosphere. Personally, I don't think I'm ready for that kind of fun.
CRUSHER: Try to talk him into Tavena Minor. They have a cruise down the Jokri River. The iridescent currents are beautiful.

[Bridge]
WORF: Forward velocity is down by point two percent, and dropping.
PICARD: Engineering.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: But we can't find the source.
PICARD: If we can't correct it we may have to reverse course and leave the nebula.

[Engineering]
DATA: The drag coefficient continues to increase. Our velocity has fallen by twelve percent. Velocity is increasing. Ship's speed has stabilized at one quarter impulse.
LAFORGE: That's great, Data. What'd you do?
DATA: I did nothing. The problem seems to have corrected itself.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: I don't have an explanation, Captain. We seemed to hit something, then we started losing speed. So far as we can tell, there's nothing out there to hit.
RIKER: Could some kind of damping field have caused us to lose velocity?
DATA: We have simulated several such fields, but were unable to reproduce the same drag coefficient.
LAFORGE: And we still don't know why the problem suddenly corrected itself.
PICARD: It seems we're looking a unique phenomenon. One that hasn't been recorded before.
LAFORGE: The question is, do we stay here and check it out?
RIKER: Might be dangerous.
DATA: Since we have only experienced the phenomenon once, it is impossible to estimate the risks.
LAFORGE: Captain, I'd like to stay here for a little bit, collect some samples of the gaseous matter, see what it tells us.
PICARD: Agreed. Collect your samples, Mister La Forge. We'll proceed with caution. Dismissed.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Hot chocolate. Computer, I need my appointment schedule for next week.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: I'm on my way.

[Bridge]
WORF: Worf here, sir.
PICARD: Lieutenant,

[Sickbay]
PICARD: We've established the presence of what appears to be an alien entity on board. It seems the entity has manifested itself in the form of a twelve year old human girl who has been seen with Clara Sutter. She has blonde hair, blue eyes
WORF: And a blue dress.

[Bridge]
WORF: Yes sir, I have seen her.
PICARD: When?
WORF: Two days ago, near Engineering. She was with Miss Sutter.
PICARD: Security Alert

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
RIKER: Our speed is down by twenty two percent.
LAFORGE: Strand density is ten times what it was, Captain. We can't take many more of these hits.
PICARD: All stop.
WORF: Sir, something is heading toward us, bearing one oh three mark oh two four.
PICARD: On screen.
DATA: It appears to be an energy vortex of highly complex patterns. Possibly a life form.
RIKER: Red alert.
DATA: It is in direct physical contact with our shields.
WORF: Shield strength dropping to seventy five percent. Seventy two percent.
RIKER: The damn thing's feeding off our shields. Mister Data, remodulate our shield frequencies.
DATA: Aye, sir. No effect.
WORF: Shield strength has dropped to sixty four percent.
LAFORGE: We've got about eight minutes before this thing drains our shields.
RIKER: Any ideas?

[Bridge]
PICARD: Status, Number One.
RIKER: We're clear of the strands. We'll have full warp capability in twenty minutes.
PICARD: Notify all sections we'll be leaving this area in one hour.
RIKER: Sir?
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I want you to drive the warp engines to full power, and direct a flow of energy out into the nebula.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Very impressive.
TROI: It's beautiful, but frightening at the same time.
DATA: Captain, I am detecting a transmission emanating from within the system.
RIKER: What sort of signal?
DATA: It is self-repeating, of unknown pattern.
PICARD: Where is it coming from?
DATA: A small moon orbiting the fourth planet.
PICARD: Life signs?
DATA: Indeterminate. I am attempting to screen out sensor interference. Readings are still inconclusive, however the moon's atmosphere is capable of supporting life.
RIKER: It could be a distress call. Helm, take us into transport range. Doctor Crusher, meet me in transporter room two with a medical away team.
CRUSHER: Acknowledged.

[Crash site]
CRUSHER: I'm reading one life form, very weak signs.
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise.
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.
RIKER: We've found the wreckage of a small craft.

[Bridge]
RIKER: One survivor. It's a Borg. Male, adolescent. He's badly hurt.
DATA: Sir, there is no indication of other Borg activity within sensor range.
PICARD: Away team, prepare to return to the ship.
CRUSHER: Captain, we can't

[Crash site]
CRUSHER: Leave him here. He won't survive.
RIKER: I think the Captain understands that.
CRUSHER: I don't.
RIKER: The Borg usually collect their dead.
CRUSHER: He's not dead.
RIKER: The transmission
CRUSHER: At least not yet.
RIKER: The transmission that we intercepted was probably a homing signal. We have to assume they're on their way.
CRUSHER: Let me at least stabilize his condition, give him a chance of surviving until they get here.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Your concern is noted, Doctor, but any intervention on our part would alert the Borg to our having been here.

[Crash site]
CRUSHER: I'm afraid we've turned that corner already.
WORF: Kill it now. Make it appear that it died in the crash.

[Bridge]
WORF: Leave no evidence that we were ever here.
PICARD: Security measures must be taken before we beam it on board.
CRUSHER: Thank you, Captain. Standing by.
PICARD: Mister Data, notify Security to prepare a detention cell. Bridge to Engineering.
LAFORGE: La Forge here.
PICARD: We're bringing a Borg survivor on board. We'll need to neutralize the homing signal

[Engineering]
PICARD: Prevent it from sending or receiving transmissions of any kind.
LAFORGE: I'll set up a subspace damping field around the detention cell.
PICARD: Very well.

[Crash site]
WORF: Four more. None survived.
PICARD: Picard to Riker.
RIKER: Go ahead, Enterprise.

[Bridge]
PICARD: We are transporting you directly to the detention cell.
CRUSHER: I need him in Sickbay, Captain.
PICARD: The cell, Doctor. Whatever equipment you need will be brought to you there.
CRUSHER: Very well.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
TROI: Captain, I just wondered if there's anything you wanted to talk about.
PICARD: I don't think so, Counselor.
TROI: I would have thought having a Borg on the ship would stir some feelings.
PICARD: I'm quite recovered from my experience, thank you.
TROI: Sometimes even when a victim has dealt with his assault there are residual effects of the event that linger. You were treated violently by the Borg. Kidnapped, assaulted, mutilated.
PICARD: Counselor. Counselor, I very much appreciate your concern for me, but I can assure you it is quite misplaced. I have carefully considered the implications of having a Borg on this ship. I have weighed the possible risks, and I am convinced that we are doing the right thing. Now, I am quite comfortable with my decision.
TROI: I see. Well, if at any point you want to talk more.
PICARD: I shall certainly avail myself of your help.

[Brig]
WORF: Lower the forcefield.
WORF: Captain, the Borg is still unconscious.
CRUSHER: He suffered massive internal injuries. We've been able to control the hemorrhaging, but some of the implants in his brain were damaged. I may have to remove them.
PICARD: The Borg will die if they're removed permanently. Their brains grow dependent on the biochips.
CRUSHER: Perhaps Geordi can construct some new implants.
LAFORGE: They contain relatively straightforward programming, interface protocols. We have the files we downloaded after your experience, Captain. I think I can manage it.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, do you know enough about Borg programming to alter the pathways to their root command structure?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, sir. The subroutines are pretty complicated. I'd probably have to study the data processing algorithms. It's the only way I could trace the access codes.
PICARD: If we could get to the root command, we could introduce an invasive programming sequence through its biochip system and then return it to the hive.
LAFORGE: The Borg are so interconnected it would act like a virus.
PICARD: Which would infect the entire Collective. We could disable their neural network at a stroke.
CRUSHER: Infect it? You make it sound like a disease.
PICARD: Quite right, Doctor. If all goes well, a terminal one.

[Brig]
CRUSHER: What's he doing?
PICARD: He's trying to find an access terminal so he can interface with the collective. He doesn't understand that the signal has been cut off.
LAFORGE: He's emitting a homing signal and a second subspace beacon, but our damping field is blocking both signals.
PICARD: He's alone. For the first time he's being forced to cope with his environment without the resources of the Collective.
CRUSHER: He must be hungry. The Borg don't ingest food. Their implants can synthesize any organic molecules the biological tissues require. What they need is energy.
PICARD: Arrange to feed it.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: I'll have to adapt a power conduit and installl it in there.
CRUSHER: If I didn't know better, I'd think he was scared.

[Gymnasium]
GUINAN: I don't think I like this sport.
PICARD: Last week when you scored two touches, you liked it well enough. Today you were dropping your foil. You kept letting me inside.
GUINAN: Ah, but if I lift up, you lunge right underneath. Let's face it, you're just better at this than I am. I understand we have a guest on board.
PICARD: Yes.
GUINAN: Is that wise?
PICARD: I'm not sure. I hope so.
GUINAN: I thought I understood you, Picard, but I don't understand this.
PICARD: It was an errand of mercy. He was injured, Doctor Crusher decided for humanitarian reasons to care for him.
GUINAN: They're going to come after us, you know that. You, of all people, know that.
PICARD: Shall we go again?
PICARD: Are you all right?
GUINAN: You felt sorry for me. Look what it got you.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: You know, it's funny. When I first creating this invasive program I didn't have a problem with it. The more I work with Hugh, the more I
GUINAN: Hugh?
LAFORGE: That's what we call him.
GUINAN: You named the Borg?
LAFORGE: Well, it was easier to have something to call him.
GUINAN: Oh, so now you have a Borg named Hugh.
LAFORGE: Right. And he's nothing like what I expected.
GUINAN: How so?
LAFORGE: I don't know. It's like he's just some kid who's far way from home.
GUINAN: Do you know that you're the second person today to refer to that Borg as though it were some sort of lost child.
LAFORGE: Anyway, I'm having second thoughts about what we're doing here. I mean, programming him like some sort of walking bomb. Sending him back to destroy the others.
GUINAN: Let me tell you something. When that kid's big brothers come looking for him, they're not going to stop until they find him. And then they're going to come looking for us, and they will destroy us. And they will not do any of the soul-searching that you are apparently doing right now.
LAFORGE: Then why don't you go and talk to him. It might not be so clear cut then.
GUINAN: Because I wouldn't have anything to say.
LAFORGE: Then why don't you just listen? That is what you do best, isn't it?

[Bridge]
PICARD: What is it, Number One?
RIKER: We've picked up a vessel on the long range scanners, headed this way.
PICARD: Analysis.
DATA: The vessel is traveling at warp seven point six. Mass two point five million metric tons. Configuration, cubical.
RIKER: The Borg.
DATA: Its dimensions indicate that it is a scout ship similar to the one that crashed. Interference from the star's radiation will shield us from their sensors. We should remain undetected until they enter the system.
PICARD: How long do we have?
DATA: At present speed they will arrive in thirty one hours seven minutes.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: That's it, Captain.
PICARD: It looks harmless enough.
LAFORGE: We had to disguise it as something innocuous. The Borg have ways of screening out program anomalies.
PICARD: How can a geometric form disable a computer system?
DATA: The shape is a paradox, sir. It cannot exist in real space or time.
LAFORGE: When Hugh's imaging apparatus imprints this on his biochips, he'll try to analyze it.
DATA: He will be unsuccessful, and will store the shape in his memory banks. It will be shunted to a subroutine for further analysis.
LAFORGE: Then when the Borg download his memory, it'll be incorporated it into their network, then they'll try to analyze it.
DATA: It is designed so that each approach they take will spawn an anomalous solution. The anomalies are designed to interact with each other, linking together to form an endless and unsolvable puzzle.
PICARD: Quite original. How long before a total systems failure?
LAFORGE: Not until the shape has gone through several hundred computational cycles.
PICARD: When can you begin the process?
LAFORGE: About another twenty hours. Doctor Crusher wants to make sure the new implants have taken hold.
PICARD: Very well. Begin as soon as you're ready.
LAFORGE: Captain. I have to admit I've been having second thoughts about this plan.
PICARD: In what way?
LAFORGE: Well, I've been getting to know him. The Borg.
PICARD: I see.
LAFORGE: He's not what I expected, Captain. He's got feelings. He's homesick. I don't know. It just doesn't seem right using him this way.
PICARD: Centuries ago, when laboratory animals were used for experiments, scientists would sometimes become attached to the creatures. This would a problem if the experiment involved killing them. I would suggest that you unattach yourself from the Borg, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Aye, Captain.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Guinan. Please, come in.
GUINAN: Are you sure? You look like you're preparing for a quiet evening.
PICARD: No, I'm delighted to see you. Can I get you something to drink?
GUINAN: No, thank you. I was thinking about how you said the other day that my foil was dipping. That I should get some exercise and strengthen my arm.
PICARD: Well. a strong forearm is certainly an advantage in fencing.
GUINAN: And bartending. About the Borg. Aren't you the least bit surprised by him?
PICARD: Surprised?
GUINAN: Did you know he has a name? La Forge gave it to him. His name's Hugh. And he's lonely. I don't know what made me go see him. La Forge said I should, but I said no. And suddenly there I was standing there, staring at him. I thought it was just curiosity. Just curious. I need to hear you say that you are sure you're doing the right thing.
PICARD: If you're here to persuade me not to use the invasive program.
GUINAN: No. I think I need you to persuade me.
PICARD: Two days ago, you were so upset about the Borg even being on the ship that you tore my foil out of my hand. And now you're here questioning whether it should be treated as the enemy.
GUINAN: No. But when you talk to him face to face, can you honestly say you don't have any doubt?
PICARD: I haven't talked to it.
GUINAN: Why not?
PICARD: I saw no need.
GUINAN: If you're going to use this person
PICARD: It's not a person, damn it, it's a Borg!
GUINAN: If you are going to use this person to destroy his race, you should at least look him in the eye once before you do it. Because I am not sure he is still a Borg.
PICARD: Because it's been given a name by a member of my crew doesn't mean it's not a Borg. Because it's young doesn't mean that it's innocent. It is what it is, and in spite of efforts to turn it into some kind of pet I will not alter my plans.
GUINAN: Fine. But if you don't talk to him at least once, you may find that decision a harder to live with than you realize.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: I think I deliberately avoided speaking with the Borg because I didn't want anything to get in the way of our plan. But now that I have, he seems to be a fully realized individual. He has even accepted me as Picard, Captain of this ship, and not as Locutus.
LAFORGE: So you've reconsidered the plan?
PICARD: Yes. To use him in this manner, we'd be no better than the enemy that we seek to destroy. So, I want other options.
RIKER: We could return him to the crash site. We'd have to remove his memory of being on the Enterprise.
CRUSHER: But if we erase his memory, who he is or who he has become would be destroyed.
RIKER: Isn't that the point? He'd be reassimilated into the hive without any questions.
LAFORGE: Does that seems right, to help him become an individual and then take that away from him?
CRUSHER: Is there any danger that the Borg might destroy him if they find out what's happened?
PICARD: I doubt it. There'd be nothing to gain. It's more likely that they would simply wipe out his memory of those experiences.
RIKER: Then either way, his memory would have been erased.
PICARD: But perhaps in that short time before they purge his memory, the sense of individuality which he has gained here might be transmitted throughout the entire Borg Collective. Every one of the Borg being given the opportunity to experience the feeling of singularity. Perhaps that's the most pernicious program of all. The knowledge of self being spread throughout the Collective, in that brief moment, might alter them forever. We leave his memory intact.
CRUSHER: I have a question. What if he doesn't want to go back?

[Bridge]
DATA: We are now entering position. Radiation levels are rising.
PICARD: Increase power to the shields. Hold us here.
RIKER: Status of the Borg ship?
DATA: Solar radiation is rendering our sensors inoperable. At last known course and speed, the Borg vessel should enter the system in three minutes.

[Romulan Engineering]
RIKER: Captain, we're still looking at a core breach unless we can fashion a new graviton generator.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What is the status of the engine replacement?
RIKER: Engineering is modifying one of our subspace resonators to act as a new engine core. It won't do more than warp two, but it'll get them home.
PICARD: Very well.
DATA: Captain. The diagnostic of the transporter system shows an anomalous energy fluctuation. I will need to inspect the imaging scanner in transporter room three.
PICARD: By all means.
DATA: Captain? I have a personal favor to ask. I considered Commander La Forge to be my best friend. I believe it is my responsibility to plan and conduct the memorial service. May I have your permission to do so?
PICARD: Permission granted. Make whatever arrangements you think are appropriate.
DATA: Thank you, sir.

[Romulan Engineering]
WORF: Commander, the the Romulans want a computer. We cannot give them access to Federation technology. That is an unacceptable security risk.
RIKER: What about a computer core from thirty or forty years ago? One the Romulans are already familiar with.
WORF: That would be satisfactory.
RIKER: Check with the Enterprise, see what's available. Be sure your concern are addressed before we installl it.
WORF: Aye, sir. Thank you.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Data, stop being so rational. Try using your imagination once in a while. These aren't just random patterns, it's me!
LAFORGE: Hey, watch where you point that thing. Wait a minute, Data, I think you did something here . It's not so easy to push through any more. The molecules in my hand must have been partially de-phased by the anyon beam. Data, if a low level beam can bring my hand part of the way back, maybe a high level beam can bring me all of the way back. I'll just have to get you to turn up the beam intensity so that. Hey, wait a minute, don't stop now. No, no, no. Data, don't give up on it. It works, I was just creating more fields. Your method is fine. You just need to turn up the intensity, Data.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Magnify. Mister Data?
DATA: It appears to be a probe of some kind, but there is no Starfleet record of this shape or design.
RIKER: Is it scanning us?
WORF: No sir, but it has assumed a relative position and it is holding course with us.
DATA: The probe is composed of paricium and talgonite, a ceramic alloy.
LAFORGE: Not a very sophisticated technology.
WORF: Sir, I am detecting a low-level nucleonic beam coming from the probe.
RIKER: Shields up. Stand by phasers.
DATA: The beam is scanning the shield's perimeter. The probe is emitting an unusual particle stream.
WORF: Sir, the beam is penetrating our shields.
PICARD: Increase power to
RIKER: Captain? Captain, I've got you. It's all

[Bridge]
RIKER: Geordi, any progress identifying the probe?
LAFORGE: Maybe. I've picked up some residue on the probe's shell. I think it came from the propulsion system. Looks like it used a solid propellant as fuel.
RIKER: Solid propellant?
LAFORGE: Sensors read this stuff as crystalline emiristol. It produces a radioactive trail that ought to be traceable.
RIKER: Then we should be able to send out a probe of our own, trace it back to the origin.
LAFORGE: I'll get right on it.
DATA: Commander, I have been analyzing the nucleonic beam. I believe it would be possible to reflect the particles back toward the probe in a way that would disrupt the signal.
RIKER: Doctor?
CRUSHER: I simply don't know the risk of shutting down the beam.
RIKER: I'm not willing to let this thing keep drilling into him.
CRUSHER: If somebody gets stabbed, you don't necessarily pull the knife out right away. It might do more harm than leaving it there.
WORF: The Captain is under attack. We must act.
RIKER: I'm inclined to agree. Doctor, monitor him closely. Mister Data, prepare to disrupt the beam. We're going to try to cut this cord.

[Bridge]
OGAWA: His respiratory system's in spasm. Pulse is irregular and weakening.
CRUSHER: I'm losing him!
OGAWA: I'm getting massive somatophysical failure.
CRUSHER: Two cc's delactovine.
RIKER: Data, get that beam back.
OGAWA: There are severe fluctuations in the isocortex. Synaptic responses are failing.
CRUSHER: Begin full cardiac induction.
OGAWA: Blood pressure is dropping rapidly. Seventy over twenty.
CRUSHER: Data, you've got to re-establish that beam.
DATA: I am attempting to do so, Doctor.
OGAWA: Losing response in the isocortex.
CRUSHER: Cortical stimulators. Start at ten percent.
DATA: The beam is fully restored, Doctor.
OGAWA: Blood pressure up to ninety over forty and rising.
CRUSHER: Isocortical functions are stabilizing. Vital signs are approaching normal.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: His vital signs are holding. They've been stable ever since the beam was restored.
LAFORGE: Commander Riker, we've started to receive telemetry from the probe we launched.
RIKER: Go ahead.
LAFORGE: We've charted the alien probe's radiation trail for over one light year.
RIKER: Any way to extrapolate am origin?
LAFORGE: Looks like a star system in the Silarian sector. Kataan.
RIKER: Never heard of it. Data?
DATA: It is an unmapped system of six planets, sir.
RIKER: Any of them inhabited?
DATA: Not any longer, sir. The star went nova. All life in the system was destroyed approximately one thousand years ago.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Something's happening.
DATA: The nucleonic beam has ceased, Commander. The probe has shut down.
CRUSHER: His cerebral functions are stabilizing.
RIKER: Mister Worf, put a tractor beam on that probe. I want it in shuttlebay two for examination.
WORF: Yes, Commander.
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: Please, Captain, don't get up too quickly.
PICARD: Captain? This is the Enterprise. I'm Jean-Luc Picard. How long?
RIKER: Twenty, twenty five minutes.
PICARD: Twenty five minutes?
CRUSHER: Captain, I want you in Sickbay. I'd like to run a full diagnostic on you.
PICARD: Doctor Crusher.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Hello, sir. Feeling better?
PICARD: Yes. Yes, thank you. But I find I'm having to rediscover that this is really my home.
RIKER: We were able to open the probe and examine it. Apparently, whatever had locked onto you must have been self terminating. It's not functioning any longer. We found this inside.

[Engineering]
DATA: Interesting. There is a twelve percent decomposition of the bitanium in the neural pathway links. That suggests the alloys are vulnerable to
RIKER: Data, how can you look inside that, analyze the decomposition without
DATA: Emotion, sir?
RIKER: Yes..
DATA: I am simply trying to make an objective assessment.
PICARD: Data, is this yours?
DATA: I believe so, sir.
PICARD: Could it be Lore?
DATA: No, sir. My brother's positronic brain has a type L phase diskriminating amplifier. Mine is a type R.
PICARD: Type R?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Can you predict how long this has been in the cavern?
DATA: Decomposition strongly indicates that life was terminated approximately five hundred years ago. That would be consistent with the other artifacts we recovered.
RIKER: Your head is not an artifact.
DATA: In relative terms, perhaps not. Nevertheless, it seems clear that my life is to end in the late nineteenth century.
RIKER: Not if we can help it.
DATA: There is no way anyone can prevent it, sir. At some future date, I will be transported back to nineteenth century Earth, where I will die. It has occurred. It will occur.
LAFORGE: Well, I can't tell you exactly who the aliens were, but I have found out a few things. The triolicised rock face tells us we're probably dealing with a species with microcentrum cell membranes. Triolic waves wouldn't harm them. It also might mean they're shape shifters of some kind.
RIKER: So they could have appeared on Earth as humans.
LAFORGE: I don't think it's anyone we've run into before. Nothing we found matches up with any known lifeforms. What does match up is a cellular fossil which might have been along just for the ride.
PICARD: A cellular fossil?
LAFORGE: A microscopic ciliated lifeform. Not unlike a thousand other single-celled lifeforms you'd find on any planet surface, except this particular one is LB one zero four four five. And LB one zero four four five is only known to exist on one place. Devidia Two, in the Marrab sector.
PICARD: Number One, lay in a course.
RIKER: On my way.

[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: So, do you want to talk about it?
DATA: Are you referring to the foreknowledge of my death?
LAFORGE: Yeah.
DATA: I have no particular desire to discuss the matter. Do you need to talk about it?
LAFORGE: Yeah.
DATA: Why?
LAFORGE: Data, this has got to bother you a little.
DATA: On the contrary. I find it rather comforting.
LAFORGE: Comforting?
DATA: I have often wondered about my own mortality as I have seen others around me age. Until now it has been theoretically possible that I would live an unlimited period of time. And although some might find this attractive, to me it only reinforces the fact that I am artificial.
LAFORGE: I never knew how tough this must be for you.
DATA: Tough? As in difficult?
LAFORGE: Knowing that you would outlive all your friends.
DATA: I expected to make new friends.
LAFORGE: True.
DATA: And then to outlive them as well.
LAFORGE: Now that you know that you might not?
DATA: It provides a sense of completion to my future. In a way, I am not that different from anyone else. I can now look forward to death.
LAFORGE: I never thought of it that way.
DATA: One might also conclude that it brings me one step closer to being human. I am mortal.
PICARD: Picard to Bridge officers. We're approaching the Devidia system. Report to your stations.
LAFORGE: I'll see you later. Let's get together for a game of chess or something, okay?
GUINAN: That sounded like a very intense discussion.
LAFORGE: Yeah. They found Data's head a mile beneath San Francisco. Been down there about five centuries.
GUINAN: That's why the Enterprise has been sent back to Earth. I didn't realize.
LAFORGE: It's something, isn't it? He seems fine about it. Better than I am. Well, I'd better get to Engineering.
GUINAN: Full circle.

[Corridor]
TROI: I heard about Data.
RIKER: Yeah.
TROI: It's having an unusually traumatic effect on everyone.
RIKER: Yeah.
TROI: If you don't want to talk about it, it's okay.
RIKER: I'm fine. I'm just
TROI: Angry.
RIKER: I'm not angry. Yeah, I'm angry. Why should I be angry?
TROI: Maybe because it reminds us of our own mortality.
RIKER: I just don't want to believe it.
TROI: Have you ever heard Data define friendship?
RIKER: No.
TROI: How did he put it? As I experience certain sensory input patterns, my mental pathways become accustomed to them. The inputs eventually are anticipated and even missed when absent.
RIKER: So what's the point?
TROI: He's used to us, and we're used to him. It's like finding out someone you love has a terminal illness and
RIKER: Data.
DATA: Counselor. Commander.

[Turbolift]
DATA: Would either of you mind if I made a personal inquiry?
TROI: Personal inquiry? No, go right ahead.
DATA: I am perceiving an apparent change in the way others behave toward me. For example, people abruptly end conversations when I appear, just as you did when the turbolift doors opened. Is that an accurate observation?
RIKER: Not at all.
TROI: Yes.
RIKER: Yes.
TROI: You're right, Data. And it's not a very nice thing to do.
RIKER: It's just that our mental pathways have become accustomed to your sensory input patterns.
DATA: I understand. I am also fond of you, Commander. And you as well, Counselor.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We're in orbit.
PICARD: Any sign of life?
WORF: Negative, sir.
DATA: Captain, sensors are picking up an unusual temporal disturbance on a small area of the planet's surface. Forty two degrees seven minutes north by eighty eight degrees declination east.
RIKER: Temporal disturbance?
PICARD: Put us in a standard orbit above those coordinates.
DATA: Spectral analysis shows a high level of triolic waves emanating from the same location.
RIKER: Any correlation with the readings from Earth?
DATA: Affirmative, sir. The magnetic signature is identical to the one found in the cavern.
PICARD: Would these triolic waves be dangerous to humanoids?
DATA: Only with long term exposure, sir. There is no immediate threat.
PICARD: Take an away team.
RIKER: Worf. Geordi. Troi. Join me in transporter room three for an away team.
DATA: Commander.
PICARD: Mister Data, I'll need your help to monitor the sensor readings during this investigation.
DATA: Captain, may I speak to you alone?

[Ready room]
DATA: Sir, it is standard procedure that the second officer accompany the away team.
PICARD: Yes, yes, Mister Data, I am aware of that.
DATA: Then I must assume your decision is related to the discovery on Earth of
PICARD: I think it is reasonable to take precautions.
DATA: Captain, there is no rational justification for this course.
PICARD: Then I'll be irrational.
DATA: It is possible, sir, that the events leading to my death will not occur for years, even centuries.
PICARD: I hope that's true, Mister Data. Nevertheless, this investigation began with your death. I am simply trying to see that it doesn't end that way.
DATA: I appreciate your concern, Captain, but, to employ an aphorism, one cannot cheat fate.
PICARD: Cheat fate? Perhaps we can't, Mister Data. But at least we can give it a try.

[Devidia cavern]
LAFORGE: The concentration of triolic waves falls off about here. It increases exponentially the closer in we go.
RIKER: What's the source? Something underground?
LAFORGE: Negative, Commander.
RIKER: What's the explanation?
LAFORGE: I don't have one yet. La Forge to Enterprise.
DATA: Go ahead.
LAFORGE: Data, run a spectral field correlation for me. Let's find out if these triolic readings are in any way related

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: To the temporal distortions.
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Devidia cavern]
RIKER: Deanna?
TROI: There's life here. A child. An old woman. Dozens more. Hundreds. Terrified.
RIKER: Terrified?
TROI: My God, Will. They're human.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Whatever they are, Troi's convinced they're human. They may be trapped somehow. We're not sure.
DATA: Captain, the results of my temporal analysis may be pertinent.
PICARD: Go ahead.
DATA: Geordi, it indicates a synchronic distortion in the areas emanating

[Devidia cavern]
DATA: Triolic waves.
LAFORGE: That explains a few things. How much, Data?
DATA: A positive displacement of point zero zero four percent.
LAFORGE: Well, whatever or whoever is there, we're out of phase with it, but we're only talking by a fraction of a second.
WORF: A fraction of a second would make them invisible?
LAFORGE: A millisecond, a year, it wouldn't make any difference. If what we're reading is true, then we're occupying the same space but in a different time.
RIKER: How do we compensate?
DATA: Commander, we might be able to

[Bridge]
DATA: Manipulate the synchronic distortion.
LAFORGE: Maybe. If we were to create a contained subspace force field.

[Devidia cavern]
LAFORGE: But to get a point zero zero four variance, we'd need an incredibly sensitive phase diskriminator, Data. I don't think we've got one that would come close.
DATA: Yes, we do.

[Bridge]
DATA: It is built into my positronic decompiler. It will be necessary for me to join the away team, sir.
PICARD: Proceed, Mister Data.

[Devidia cavern]
RIKER: Mister Data.
DATA: Sir.
LAFORGE: Let me give you a hand with that, Data.
DATA: Once I have adjusted the forcefield, I will no longer be visible, Commander. I have taken steps, however, to ensure that you will still be able to hear me. If you would assist me in a test of the comm. system. My voice will be transmitted on a delay correlated to the phase adjustment. That should allow me to maintain verbal contact.
RIKER: Will we be able to talk to you?
DATA: No, sir. That will not be possible.
LAFORGE: The subspace field has been established. You're set to go, Data.
DATA: Adjusting the synchronic distortion. Point zero zero one. Point zero zero two. Point zero zero three. Point zero zero four.
DATA: I have made visual contact. There are lifeforms here.

[Bridge]
DATA: They're either unaware of me or choosing to ignore me. I am moving approximately ten meters north of my starting position to observe more closely.

[Devidia cavern]
DATA: They range from two to three meters in height. Silver gray in color. They have four limbs. No eyes or ears are noticeable. There is a single orifice where a humanoid forehead would ordinarily be. They are reclined against the rock face surrounding an apparatus of some sort approximately one point five meters in height.

[Bridge]
DATA: It is releasing what appear to be energy fragments, which are then ingested by the entities through the orifice. Perhaps some sort of nourishment.

[Devidia cavern]
DATA: The upper portion of the apparatus seems to be a holding facility for the energy segments. There are hundreds, perhaps thousands of these fragments inside. I have resumed a northerly direction. There is no evidence yet of humans.
LAFORGE: Okay, that's enough Data. Come on back now,
DATA: I have encountered

[Bridge]
DATA: Another lifeform. An ophidian. It seems to be restricted by a forcefield.

[Devidia cavern]
DATA: Two of the silver-gray entities are approaching it. They have released the forcefield.

[Bridge]
DATA: I am reading a temporal distortion of massive proportions. The ophidian is cap time-space continuum.

[Devidia cavern]
DATA: Caught in the after effect. I am attempting
TROI: Data!
RIKER: Over here.
PICARD: Commander Riker, report.
RIKER: We've lost him.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: I'm not willing to accept that he's dead and just leave it at that.
PICARD: We cannot make Mister Data our priority.
RIKER: What is more important than Data?
TROI: Look at what we have so far. Evidence that these aliens have been traveling back in time to Earth.
CRUSHER: What if they're trying to undermine our history for some reason.
WORF: Some kind of guerilla war?
PICARD: We must assume that there is a threat, if not to us then to 19th century Earth. We have to determine what that threat may be. Mister La Forge, we have to find some way to communicate with these life forms.
LAFORGE: It's not going to be easy to reproduce what Data did. We can create a contained subspace field, but we'd need an extraordinarily sensitive phase diskriminator to get that point zero zero four variance.
PICARD: Can you build one?
LAFORGE: It won't be as good as Data's.
RIKER: Will it be good enough?
LAFORGE: I don't know. I can try. It's going to take some time though.
PICARD: I don't want anyone else going in alone.
LAFORGE: I can probably create a large enough subspace field to encompass everyone. But adjusting the phase inside the field, that's going to be the hard part.
PICARD: Make it so.
RIKER: We have to assume one thing, sir. Wherever Data may be, he's doing the same thing we are, which is trying to get to the bottom of this. He may have a better idea about what's going on than we do, so it might be in the best interests of this mission to find him.
PICARD: Perhaps in the course of this investigation, we will. I hope so.
WORF: If we find Commander Data, it may be our fate to die with him in the past. If our remains are in that cavern, they would have turned to dust long ago.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: I'm afraid to interrupt.
GUINAN: Captain, you didn't have to come all the way down here. I would've been more than happy to come up to you.
PICARD: And miss all this? I haven't seen such a complex operation since the Academy lab final in exochemistry.
GUINAN: It's a Tzartak aperitif. It's very, very touchy. The trick is to change the evaporation point of the main ingredient. You want the temperature where the liquid goes to vapor to be a half a degree below the body temperature of the customer. That way, when the liquid touches the tongue, it evaporates, and the flavor is carried entirely by the vapor. A few molecules off, the vapor point crashes, and poof! It's all gone. All of it.
PICARD: What is it you wanted to see me about?
GUINAN: I hear you're sending an away team down to the surface. Are you going?
PICARD: Well, now, this is rather unusual for you to be curious about an away mission.
GUINAN: Maybe it's an unusual away mission.
PICARD: If you have something to say, I'm listening.
GUINAN: Starfleet captains don't usually accompany away teams.
PICARD: It's general policy.
GUINAN: This time, you have to.
PICARD: Why?
GUINAN: You just do. Do you remember the first time we met?
PICARD: Of course.
GUINAN: Don't be so sure. I just mean, if you don't go on this mission, we'll never meet.

[Morgue]
RIKER: The coroner said this is where they kept all the cholera victims.
CRUSHER: It doesn't make sense that so many people are dying of cholera. It just isn't that virulent. Will, this is strange.
RIKER: What is it?
CRUSHER: The cerebellum, the cerebral cortex, the brain stem, the entire nervous system has been depleted of electrochemical energy. Here's another one. Same neural depletion. These people did not die of cholera. They died because their neural energy was drained somehow.
RIKER: Drained and taken to Devidia Two for those aliens to ingest? If you were a time traveler with a taste for human neural energy where would you get your supply?
CRUSHER: I would travel back to a time when there were plagues and epidemics, so I could murder and use disease as a cover.

[Infirmary street]
RIKER: Data!
LAFORGE: Boy, are we glad to see you.
DATA: I suggest we postpone our greetings for another occasion.
PICARD: Agreed. Get us out of here.

[Data's hotel room]
GUINAN: You're back. I have wonderful news. I've found a way to get into the Presidio and into the mine shaft.
DATA: It is all right.
GUINAN: Do you know me?
PICARD: Very well.
GUINAN: Do I know you?
PICARD: Not yet. But you will.

[Cavern]
PICARD: Gently. Don't sit up too quickly.
GUINAN: Where'd everybody go?
PICARD: I hope they're all safely back on the Enterprise by now.
GUINAN: But you're still here.
PICARD: You were hurt. I had to make sure you were all right.
GUINAN: And so you stayed for that?
PICARD: I didn't want anything to happen to you. You're far too important to me.
GUINAN: You know an awful lot about me.
PICARD: Believe me, in the future the tables will be turned.
GUINAN: So we become friends?
PICARD: It goes far beyond friendship.
GUINAN: Oh, but I'll have to wait almost five hundred years, and when we meet I won't be able to tell you about this, will I?
PICARD: No. Because for me, none of this will have happened yet.
GUINAN: What's that?
PICARD: That's history fulfillling itself.

[Ten Forward]
GUINAN: History has to fulfilll itself. Even Picard knew that.
RIKER: You were there in the cavern. You know what happened. What am I supposed to do?
GUINAN: If I told you what happened in that cavern, it would affect any decision you'd make now. I can't do that. I won't.
RIKER: Not telling me might affect my decision. Did you think of that? We're talking about Jean-Luc Picard. I can't sit around and hope it all works out. I've got to do something.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: I'm going back for Captain Picard. Mister Worf, assemble an Away team to accompany me to the surface. Doctor, I need to know anything you can tell me about that ophidian.
CRUSHER: I've just started running some tests. If I can have a few hours.
RIKER: I can't give the alien any more time.
CRUSHER: Will, I haven't been able to determine if our phaser energy can generate a stable field. The risk would be
RIKER: I'll take that risk.
WORF: Sir. Permission to speak frankly.
RIKER: Go ahead.
WORF: Our priority is to stop the aliens from any more incursions to Earth. Any delay is unacceptable.
RIKER: If I can save Captain Picard, I consider that very acceptable.
WORF: The Captain would not. I recommend we target photon torpedoes on the alien habitat and destroy it. Immediately.
TROI: He's right, Will.
RIKER: Power up the photons, Mister Worf. Alert me when they're ready.

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander, I have set the photons to fire in staggered rounds, detonating in ten second intervals.
RIKER: Very well. Fire when ready.
WORF: The sequence will be ready to initiate in one minute.

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander La Forge has completed the reconfiguration of the photon torpedoes.
RIKER: If Clemens got back, the Captain should have been here by now.
WORF: We have no way of knowing if Mister Clemens was successful.
RIKER: Re-establish your firing pattern, Mister Worf. We'll wait five more minutes.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, I am picking up massive triolic wave activity on the surface.
RIKER: Is it the Captain?
DATA: There are no human life signs.
RIKER: No sign of a temporal distortion?
DATA: No, sir, but triolic activity is increasing.
RIKER: The aliens. Mister Worf, are the photons ready?
WORF: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Fire.
WORF: Torpedoes away, sir.
DATA: Sir, I am detecting a temporal distortion on the surface and human life signs.
RIKER: O'Brien, get him out of there!
RIKER: Transporter room, have you got him?
PICARD: He has indeed, Commander. And believe me, it's good to be back.
WORF: We have destroyed the target. There is no further indication of triolic activity.
RIKER: Ensign, lay in a course to the nearest Starbase. Warp six.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 46001.3. Everyone who should be in the nineteenth century is safely there, and those who should be in the twenty fourth are here. Mister Data has been restored to us, head and all, and Samuel Clemens will write the books he was to have written after our encounter.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Magnify.
RIKER: The last report we have says they were observing the streamer at medium range. Maybe they went in for a closer look, got more than they bargained for.
PICARD: Hail them.
WORF: No response.
PICARD: Life signs?
DATA: Our scanners cannot penetrate the plasma streamer's distortion field.
PICARD: Can we tractor them out?
DATA: No, sir. Ionic interference is too heavy.
RIKER: I'll take a shuttle in.
PICARD: Too risky. You could be pulled in too. Bridge to Engineering.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, can we beam an away team onto the science ship?
LAFORGE: We can beam them over there, Captain, but with all this interference, we might not get a positive lock to bring them back.
BARCLAY: Commander, if we bridged our transporter system with theirs we might be able to cut through the ionic field.
LAFORGE: That's a good idea, Barclay. Captain, I think we can do it. We're going to bridge the two transporter systems.
PICARD: Acknowledged. Meet Commander Riker in Transporter room three.
LAFORGE: Aye sir. Barclay, I'm going to need a systems engineer on this Away Team.
BARCLAY: I'll ask Ensign Dern to join you.
LAFORGE: I meant you, Barclay.
BARCLAY: Shouldn't I stay here and set up the remote link?
LAFORGE: Dern can do that. Come on, let's go.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Status, Mister O'Brien?
O'BRIEN: I'll have to send you over one at a time, Commander, because of band width limitations, and the transport cycle will take a little longer.
RIKER: How much longer?
O'BRIEN: Four, five seconds. About twice the normal time. I'm afraid you're in for a bumpy ride, Commander.
BARCLAY: What do you? What exactly do you mean by a bumpy ride?
O'BRIEN: There may be a small amount of static charge accumulation. You'll feel a bit of tingling. It's nothing to worry about.
RIKER: Let's do it. Mister Worf.
O'BRIEN: Engaging system interlock. Pattern buffers synchronized. Phase transition coils at stand by. Energizing. He's there.
RIKER: I'll go next.
O'BRIEN: Engaging interlock. Buffers synched. Energizing.
CRUSHER: I'm ready.
O'BRIEN: Engaging interlock. Buffers synched. Oh, wait a minute. I'm reading an ionic fluctuation in the matter stream. Oh, no problem. Okay. Energizing.
LAFORGE: Reg, you're up. Reg.
BARCLAY: Aye, sir.
O'BRIEN: Engaging interlock. Buffers in synch. Phase coils
BARCLAY: I'm sorry, I just can't do this.

[Troi's office]
TROI: Reg, you were faced with a difficult transport. Anyone would have been apprehensive in that situation.
BARCLAY: Tell that to Commander La Forge and the rest of the away team.
TROI: I'm sure they understand. As soon as you feel up to it, you can probably still join them.
BARCLAY: No!
TROI: Reg, is there something you're not telling me?
BARCLAY: Actually, this isn't the first time I've been apprehensive. Every single time that I tried to do it, I had a certain feeling. I guess you could call it mortal terror.
TROI: Why have you kept it a secret?
BARCLAY: Why? Because my career in Starfleet would be over, that's why.
TROI: I doubt that.
BARCLAY: I've always managed to avoid it somehow. You wouldn't believe how many hours that I've logged in shuttlecraft. I mean, The idea of being deconstructed, molecule by molecule. It's more than I can stand. Even when I was a child, I always had a dreadful fear that if ever I was dematerialized that I would never come back again whole. I know it sounds crazy, but
TROI: It's not crazy about it. You are being taken apart molecule by molecule. Reg, you're not the first person to have anxiety about transporting. We can desensitize you to this type of fear. It's a slow and gradual process, but it works.
BARCLAY: It does? How?
TROI: Well, you might first try a relaxation technique, like plexing.
BARCLAY: Plexing?
TROI: Yes, it's a Betazoid method. The next time you feel nervous about transporting, you stimulate a neural pressure point, like this.
TROI: There's a nerve cluster just behind the carotid artery. It stimulates the part of the brain that releases natural endorphins.
BARCLAY: Plexing. Sounds easy enough.
TROI: Here. There.
BARCLAY: You know, I feel better already. I think I can do this.
TROI: There's no need to rush.
BARCLAY: No, no. We talked about confronting my fears. The best way out is through. You said that once, remember?
TROI: I suppose I did.
BARCLAY: I'm going to beam over there. I can do it.

[USS Yosemite Bridge]
RIKER: There's no sign of any survivors. No sign of anyone.
LAFORGE: Maybe they abandoned ship.
WORF: Unlikely. The escape pods are still on board.
LAFORGE: There was an explosion. That much we do know.
RIKER: Any idea what caused it?
LAFORGE: I've ruled out a reactor core failure and there's no sign of a systems overload.
WORF: Blast analysis indicates the explosion originated here, in the center of the transport chamber.
LAFORGE: How is that possible? The transporter is still functioning.
RIKER: Could they have beamed an explosive device aboard?
CRUSHER: Commander Riker? Could you come here, please.
RIKER: Excuse me.

[USS Yosemite]
CRUSHER: Lieutenant Joshua Kelly. He was the ship's engineer.
RIKER: How did he die?
CRUSHER: He has second and third degree burns over most of his body, but I don't think they were the cause of his death. I'm like to take him back to do an autopsy.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: You're sure about this, sir?
BARCLAY: Sure. Please proceed.
O'BRIEN: It'll only take a minute. It should be a smooth ride over.
BARCLAY: Good. Good.
O'BRIEN: I know how you feel about this, sir.
BARCLAY: You're afraid of transporting, too?
O'BRIEN: No. Arachnids. Sickening, crawly little things, don't you think? All those legs.
BARCLAY: Spiders? They've never bothered me.
O'BRIEN: A few years back, I was called in to re-route an emitter array at a Starbase on Zayra Four. Turns out the entire system was infested with Talarian hook spiders. You ever seen a Talarian hook spider? Their legs are half a meter long. Well, I had a choice. Do I walk away and let the emitter blow itself to hell, or do I crawl in the Jeffries tube with twenty hook spiders?
BARCLAY: What happened?
O'BRIEN: It was the hardest thing I ever did, but I got through it. After that, I was never quite as afraid of spiders.
BARCLAY: Thanks.
O'BRIEN: Energizing.

[USS Yosemite Bridge]
LAFORGE: Reg. Welcome aboard. You ready to work?
BARCLAY: Yes, sir.
LAFORGE: Good. Why don't you start by downloading the ship's science logs over there.
BARCLAY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Still four members of the crew unaccounted for. Did you come up with anything?
LAFORGE: I don't know how these fit in, but I found them all around the transporter platform.
RIKER: What are they?
LAFORGE: They look like pieces of a standard sample container.
RIKER: Take them back to the ship, analyze them there. Mister Barclay. Glad you could join us.
BARCLAY: Me too, sir.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: La Forge to Transporter room three. I'm ready to go.
O'BRIEN: Stand by, Commander.

[USS Yosemite]
BARCLAY: Barclay to Enterprise. One to beam back.
O'BRIEN: Stand by, sir.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: You see, sir? That wasn't so bad, was it.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Mission logs, science logs, medical logs, they're all scrambled. Looks like the blast wiped out the ship's core memory.
BARCLAY: We could try to reconstitute the data stream.
LAFORGE: It's worth a try.
BARCLAY: Commander, has anything strange ever happened to you during transport?
LAFORGE: Like what?
BARCLAY: I don't know. Anything out of the ordinary.
LAFORGE: No, not really. This looks hopeless. We're not going to get anything out of these logs. You know, maybe this broken sample container I found can tell us something. Let's try to get this thing back into one piece.
BARCLAY: I mean, have you ever seen anything?
LAFORGE: Where?
BARCLAY: In the, during transport.
LAFORGE: Sometimes my visor picks up resonance patterns from the matter energy conversion. It's actually kind of pretty. Why?
BARCLAY: Just wondering.
LAFORGE: Reg, what are you getting at? Did you saw something during transport?
BARCLAY: When I was returning to the Enterprise I could've sworn I saw something in the matter stream.
LAFORGE: Something?
BARCLAY: There was phased matter all around. At first I thought it was some kind of energy discharge, but then it flew toward me and it touched my arm. How could something be in there? Molecules flying apart, half phased? I mean, it's impossible, isn't it?
LAFORGE: We'd better check it out. When we're done here, we'll run a full diagnostic on the transporter, all right?
BARCLAY: All right.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: The confinement beam subsystems check out. So do the phase transition coils.
LAFORGE: The pattern buffer is fine.
O'BRIEN: Emitter pads, targeting scanners, they're all working fine. This system's clean. So is the science vessel's.
LAFORGE: Reg, there's a lot of energy floating around in the beam. Maybe you saw a surge in the matter stream.
BARCLAY: Yeah.
O'BRIEN: I'll run a scan on the Heisenberg compensators.
BARCLAY: No, Chief, you've done enough already.
O'BRIEN: It's no problem. Why don't you give me a hand?
BARCLAY: You know, maybe ignorance really is bliss.
O'BRIEN: Sir?
BARCLAY: Well, if I didn't know so much about these things, maybe they wouldn't scare me so much. I can still remember the day in Doctor Olafson's Transporter Theory class when he was talking about the body being converted into billions of kiloquads of data, zipping through subspace, and I realized there's no margin for error. One atom out of place and poof! You never come back. It's amazing people aren't lost all the time.
O'BRIEN: With all due respect, sir, I've been doing this for twenty two years and I haven't lost anybody yet.
BARCLAY: Yes, but you realize if these imaging scanners are off even a thousandth of a percent.
O'BRIEN: That's why each pad has four redundant scanners. If any one scanner fails, the other three take over.
LAFORGE: Reg, how many transporter accidents have there been in the last ten years? Two? Three? There are millions of people who transport safely every day without a problem.
BARCLAY: I've heard of problems. What about transporter psychosis?
O'BRIEN: Transporter Psychosis? There hasn't been a case of that in over fifty years. Not since they perfected the multiplex pattern buffers.
LAFORGE: Reg, transporting really is the safest way to travel.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I'd like to take a closer look at those burns. Take a tissue sample, please.
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Damage to the epidermis only. Initiate a circulatory probe.
OGAWA: Doctor Crusher!
CRUSHER: His heart's beating! Cardio-stimulator. Now. It's gone.
OGAWA: Neuro-electrical activity in the cerebral cortex. Nothing.
CRUSHER: Now the respiratory system's active. What the hell is going on?

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: The autopsy showed residual ionization in every one of Lieutenant Kelly's systems. I think that's what caused the muscular and systemic contractions.
RIKER: From where did the ionization come?
CRUSHER: There's evidence of electrical burns on the victim's body, as if he was exposed to ionized gas or high energy plasma.
LAFORGE: Plasma? There's no way they could've been exposed, unless it was matter from the streamer.
PICARD: Is there evidence of a hull breach? Could plasma from the streamer have found its way into the ship?
LAFORGE: No. Data, what's the report on that broken sample container?
DATA: The analysis of the fragments is not yet complete.
LAFORGE: Captain, if there's evidence of similar ionization in those fragments, it could mean they tried to beam aboard material from the streamer.
PICARD: If the plasma exploded that would explain a few things. Let me know when the analysis is complete.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: From the looks of these fracture patterns, I'd say that the explosive force came from within the container.
DATA: The container does show evidence of residual ionization. I believe your hypothesis was correct. It was used to store high energy plasma.
LAFORGE: So they were collecting samples from the plasma streamer. They had the proper container. How could it have exploded?
DATA: Perhaps we should attempt to recreate their experiment to see what happens when matter is beamed aboard under similar conditions.
LAFORGE: That's a good idea. We'll prepare a new container. Reg, I don't want to take any chances here. Start setting up a level five containment field here in Engineering, okay?
BARCLAY: Aye, sir.
DATA: Are you all right, Lieutenant?
BARCLAY: I'm fine. Yes, thank you.
DATA: Geordi. Lieutenant Barclay appears inordinately preoccupied with his physiological condition. I have seen him check his pulse rate, as well as his visual acuity several times over the last twenty minutes.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data.

[Jefferies tube]
LAFORGE: Reg?
BARCLAY: Yes, sir?
LAFORGE: You okay?
BARCLAY: I'm just fine, sir.
LAFORGE: You look a little pale.
BARCLAY: I do?
LAFORGE: Look, Reg, it's been a long couple of days. Why don't you get some rest. We've got everything under control here.
BARCLAY: I think I'll do that, sir. Thank you.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: La Forge to Counselor Troi.
TROI: Go ahead, Commander.
LAFORGE: Counselor, do you have a minute?

[Corridor]
TROI: Lieutenant Barclay, I've been calling you, why haven't you responded? Reg, what are you doing?
BARCLAY: I'm walking.
TROI: I can see that. Where are you going?
BARCLAY: Nowhere. I just don't get to these decks very often. Look, there's Stellar Cartography. I thought that was deck eleven.
TROI: Mister Barclay.
BARCLAY: I was I was having trouble sleeping and I'm trying to wear myself out. It is a perfectly normal thing to be doing, isn't it?
TROI: Commander La Forge said you seemed a little nervous this morning.
BARCLAY: I'm always nervous. Everybody knows that.
TROI: He also mentioned that you said you saw something in the transporter beam.
BARCLAY: Well I was wrong. They checked the transporter and there wasn't. I mean, there was nothing there. I imagined the whole thing.
TROI: You don't sound very convinced of that.
BARCLAY: Listen, Counselor, I really appreciate your concern in this matter but I really wish you wouldn't continue this conversation. I'm really perfectly fine.
TROI: Mister Barclay, you're exhausted and highly agitated, and I cannot allow a member of this crew to endanger himself and others. I think
BARCLAY: I'm not endangering anyone else and I wish you would
TROI: I think it would be in your best interest to take a leave of absence. Reg, I'm temporarily relieving you of duty.
BARCLAY: Fine, fine. Do what you have to do, Counselor.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Sir, begging your pardon, but couldn't this wait til the morning?
BARCLAY: No. Chief, I've just, I've been reviewing the transport logs. What are these energy variations that keep appearing? There was one when I transported to the science ship, you see?
O'BRIEN: They're just ionic fluctuations, sir. A result of our interlock with the Yosemite's transporter system.
BARCLAY: A fluctuation occurred while I was inside the matter stream?
O'BRIEN: It's nothing to worry about, sir.
BARCLAY: I need you to transport me to the science ship and then directly back again. And while I'm in the beam, can you recreate one of those ionic fluctuations?
O'BRIEN: I guess so. But if you don't mind my asking, sir, what for?
BARCLAY: I need. Commander La Forge wants some tricorder readings on those fluctuations.
O'BRIEN: We can do that from right here.
BARCLAY: No, I, the transporter sensors may not be sensitive enough. I'm giving you an order, Mister O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. If you don't mind my making an observation, sir, you forgot to bring a tricorder.
BARCLAY: Either there's something in there or I'm going crazy, and I've just got to know. You can understand that, can't you?
O'BRIEN: Yes sir, I can. Stand by, sir.
BARCLAY: I want you to wake the senior staff.

[Observation lounge]
BARCLAY: Then I saw it again, just twenty minutes ago. It was the same exact thing just moving around in the transporter beam.
RIKER: Let me get this straight. You think this thing was alive?
BARCLAY: It was dark and distorted, and it had what looked like a mouth.
WORF: A mouth.
CRUSHER: I don't see anything wrong with his arm.
TROI: Reg, why did you wait so long to tell anybody about your arm?
BARCLAY: Well, I thought I was hallucinating, that I had, that it was transporter psychosis. But now I know what I saw in there was real. I was the only one who experienced ionic fluctuations in the transport. Maybe that's why no one else saw it.
PICARD: Mister Barclay, I've been told you've been under a considerable amount of strain the past couple of days. Isn't it possible that you simply imagined
BARCLAY: I know what you're going to say, Captain. I know I've been acting strange lately. But you've got to believe me. I would never have called you in here unless I was absolutely certain.
PICARD: Commander La Forge, get Mister O'Brien. Take that transporter system apart piece by piece if you have to. Mister Worf, I want a level three security alert until further notice.
WORF: Aye, sir.
CRUSHER: I'll run a micro-cellular scan of Mister Barclay's arm. It might take some time, but if there's a problem, I'll find it.
PICARD: Keep me apprised. Dismissed.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I'm reading minute levels of residual ionization in the subdermal tissue of his left arm. The patterns correspond exactly to those we measured in Lieutenant Kelly's body and in the sample container from the science ship. There's no question. You have been exposed to the same high energy plasma they were.
BARCLAY: So something did happen to me in the transporter beam.
CRUSHER: You might've been exposed to something from the science ship. You did say something touched your left arm during transport, and that's exactly where the ionization is focused.
RIKER: Does this ionization pose a threat to Mister Barclay?
CRUSHER: It might. I'll have to run a base pair correlation to see if there's any sign of DNA breakdown.
BARCLAY: Sir, Commander La Forge and I were planning to recreate the circumstances of the explosion on the Yosemite. That might give us some answers. Permission to continue with the experiment?
RIKER: Granted. Tell Mister O'Brien to take all the primary transporters offline. I don't want to risk any further contaminations. Make sure you take all the necessary safety precautions.
BARCLAY: Aye, sir.
CRUSHER: I'd like you to wear this monitoring device. It will tell me if there's the slightest sign of increased ionization.
BARCLAY: Yes, Doctor.

[Engineering]
DATA: Structural reinforcement is at two hundred forty percent.
LAFORGE: Activating containment field. Well, that should do it. Okay, Reg. We've locked onto the coordinates of the plasma streamer. Go ahead and beam aboard a sample, will you?
BARCLAY: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: Okay. What would they have done first?
DATA: A standard analysis begins with a resonance frequency scan.
LAFORGE: That sounds like a good place to start. Let's get it done.
DATA: Initiating resonance sweep. Frequency range at three
LAFORGE: Barclay, check the containment field.
BARCLAY: The field is at its maximum limit, but it is holding.
LAFORGE: My visor's picking up bio-magnetic energy. Highly complex patterns. You know, I think these things are alive. Reg.
LAFORGE: Reg? Reg.

[Sickbay]
BARCLAY: Life forms?
DATA: That is correct. They appear to be quasi-energy microbes that exist within the distortion field of the plasma streamer.
LAFORGE: We didn't detect them until we tried to run the resonance frequency scan. Apparently, they didn't like it very much. They shattered the sample container.
BARCLAY: Which caused a plasma explosion similar to the one on the science ship.
LAFORGE: Exactly. When we linked up with their transporter system, one or more of the microbes must have got into our system. We think they're still caught in the buffer. It might explain what you saw.
BARCLAY: But what I saw was much bigger than a microbe.
DATA: Normal spatial relationships are often distorted within the matter stream. Your perceptions may have been exaggerated.
CRUSHER: Some of these microbes are also in your body, Reg.
BARCLAY: Inside me?
CRUSHER: They were in Lieutenant Kelly's body as well. That's what caused the contractions during the autopsy.
LAFORGE: The biofilter should have screened them out but it didn't.
DATA: The microbes exist simultaneously as both matter and energy. The biofilter cannot distinguish them from the matter stream.
LAFORGE: Right, but if we held Barclay suspended in mid-transport at the point where matter starts to lose molecular cohesion.
DATA: The molecules would begin to emit nucleonic particles. We may be able to derive a pattern the computer would recognize.
LAFORGE: And then reprogram the biofilters to screen the microbes out. I think this'll work, Reg.
BARCLAY: Suspend me? I don't like the sound of this.
LAFORGE: We'd have to hold you in there for a while.
BARCLAY: How long?
LAFORGE: Thirty, forty seconds. It's tough to tell. But I think it'd be safe.
BARCLAY: But if I'm in the matter stream too long.
DATA: Your pattern would degrade to the point where your signal would be permanently lost.

[Ten Forward]
BARCLAY: Chief.
O'BRIEN: Lieutenant. I'm glad you could make it. You know, I think this is the first time we've ever spoken outside of the Transporter room.
BARCLAY: Well, to be honest, I always avoided you.
O'BRIEN: Why?
BARCLAY: Because you run the transporters, and I hate the transporters. At least, I used to. So, what's in the box?
O'BRIEN: I thought you might like to meet Christina. Christina, Lieutenant Barclay.
BARCLAY: It's your pet spider.
O'BRIEN: Lycosa tarantula. Don't worry, she won't bite.
BARCLAY: She's very large.
O'BRIEN: I found her on Titus Four. Almost stepped on her by accident. Oh, I'll get us a couple of drinks, okay? Keep an eye on her, will you?
BARCLAY: Sure.
BARCLAY: Er, Chief?

[Troi's office]
TROI: Come in.
RIKER: Hi. It's that time again. The dreaded crew evaluation reports.
TROI: Does it have to be today?
RIKER: It's not going to be any easier tomorrow.
TROI: It might.
RIKER: What's wrong?
TROI: I've just had a disturbing encounter with Alkar's mother. She frightens me, Will. The feelings I sense from her are malevolent. They're out of proportion. They're evil.
RIKER: I know she's been sick. She's very old. She's probably senile. Who knows, we could all end up that way some day.
TROI: You're right. Okay, let's get through these evaluations, and when they're done I'm going to reward myself with two ice cream sundaes.
RIKER: First, molecular biology. Lieutenant Jeffrey Fratis.
WORF: Worf to Commander Riker.
RIKER: Go ahead.
WORF: Can you report to Ambassador Alkar's quarters? There is an emergency.
RIKER: We're on our way.

[Morgue]
PICARD: You wanted to see me, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Yes, Captain. I'm sorry to bother you, but I'm a little concerned. I haven't been able to determine the cause of death. She was elderly. and Alkar said she had been ill, but I found no evidence of any disease. I did find abnormally high levels of neurotransmitter residue in her cerebral cortex.
PICARD: What are you suggesting?
CRUSHER: I'd like to do an autopsy. I've already spoken to Alkar, and he informs me that Lumerian custom forbids it. Could you speak with him?
PICARD: Do you suspect that her death poses some kind of threat to the Enterprise?
CRUSHER: Well, no.
PICARD: Then we have no alternative but to concur with his wishes.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Yeah, here we go. Biofilter log on Sev Maylor.
CRUSHER: Geordi, could this log have been damaged in any way?
LAFORGE: I don't think so. Why do you ask?
CRUSHER: There's a diskrepancy between the log and the tricorder readings I took just three days later. The tricorder shows massive physiological deterioration compared with her condition when she beamed aboard. I find it hard to believe that so much damage could have occurred in such a short period of time.
LAFORGE: Well I can run a diagnostic of the biofilter system and your tricorder.
CRUSHER: Thanks. Of course, the best way to get the information I need would be to do an autopsy.

[Corridor]
RIKER: I don't know what you thought you were doing in there, but you were way out of line.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: Deck nine.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: We'll have to sedate her. Twenty cc's of melorazine.
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor.
CRUSHER: How's it feeling?
PICARD: It's a little stiff, but it'll be fine.
CRUSHER: It'll disappear in a day or two.
OGAWA: Doctor Crusher? I think you should see these readings, Doctor. Her neurotransmitter levels are three hundred percent above normal.
CRUSHER: If you remember, I found extremely high levels of neurotransmitter residue in Alkar's mother.
PICARD: Could Deanna have picked up some kind of disease from her?
CRUSHER: I don't know. I need to do that autopsy. I don't care about the customs of Alkar's people. I need to find out if there's a connection between what killed Maylor and what's happening to Troi.
PICARD: Picard to Lieutenant Worf.
WORF: Worf here, Captain.
PICARD: Mister Worf, contact Ambassador Alkar. I need to speak with him.
OGAWA: Doctor, neural energy is now three hundred forty percent above normal.
WORF: Captain, Ambassador Alkar is at the negotiation table and cannot be disturbed.
PICARD: Proceed with the autopsy. Medical log, stardate 46075.1. I have performed an autopsy on Alkar's mother, but instead of answering our questions, the results have created an even deeper mystery.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: I don't have any explanation for this. When I examined Maylor's body, I found her heart, her lungs, her skeletal structure, most of the systems in her body were those of a thirty year old.
PICARD: But how could that be? We both saw the woman.
CRUSHER: That's not all. I compared Maylor and Alkar's DNA. I don't know who that woman was, but she was definitely not his mother. Deanna's condition is deteriorating rapidly. She could die. There are questions that only Alkar can answer.
PICARD: Picard to Lieutenant Worf.
WORF: Worf here, Captain.
PICARD: Meet me in Transporter room two. We're going down to the surface.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Lock on to Alkar's signal. Bring him on board.
WORF: Captain, I am sure the Seronians have re-activated their security field.
PICARD: Then work with Mister La Forge to find a way to break through it. I want that man on this ship.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: I'll be in Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: If Alkar is flooding her with this psychic waste, that would explain the high level of neurotransmitters. All these negative emotions pouring into her have caused an abnormal chemical response in her brain.
RIKER: Isn't there something you can do to counteract it?
CRUSHER: Enzymic decontaminants will be able to reduce the level of the neurotransmitters, but I can't make any headway unless Alkar stops what he's doing.
PICARD: He has no intention of stopping. He feels perfectly justified in using her until she dies.
CRUSHER: Then Deanna has to die. In order to save Deanna, Alkar has to break his link with her. And the only he'll do that is if she's no longer an adequate receptacle. When Maylor died, Alkar turned immediately to Deanna.
PICARD: If Deanna dies, and he breaks the link with her, then he will choose someone else, possibly someone from his own delegation.
RIKER: Wait a minute. You're talking about killing Deanna!
CRUSHER: I'll be able to resuscitate her, Will, as long as it's not more than thirty minutes. The big question is, will that be enough time? Alkar has to establish a link with someone else before we revive Deanna, or else he might turn back to her.
PICARD: We must bear in mind that we'll be putting his next victim at risk. I want every possible security measure taken to protect that person.
RIKER: How will you?
CRUSHER: I'll give her a hypospray of dylamadon. It's the gentlest way.
PICARD: Proceed, Doctor.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Ambassador, You must return to the Enterprise immediately. Counselor Troi is dying.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transporter room two, prepare to energize.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: We have a minute and a half left. Prepare a hypospray of cordrazine. We'll use that in conjunction with the cortical stimulator.
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: We can't wait any longer. Release the stasis field. Ten cc's of cordrazine.
OGAWA: Yes, doctor.
CRUSHER: Ten cc's cordrazine. Cortical stimulators. Now.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Again.
OGAWA: She has a pulse. Blood pressure climbing. Ninety over forty. Cortical activity approaching normal levels.
CRUSHER: Let's neutralize the neurotransmitters. Initiate decontamination sequence.
OGAWA: Levels are dropping, Doctor. Down to four hundred and twenty percent above normal. Three hundred and ninety percent.
PICARD: Picard to Transporter room three
CRUSHER: Not yet. We won't know if it's working till the levels are below three hundred percent.

[Sickbay]
OGAWA: Neurotransmitter levels are down to three hundred and ten percent. Two hundred and ninety percent.
CRUSHER: Now.
PICARD: Picard to Transporter room three, energize.

[Sickbay]
OGAWA: Neurotransmitter levels are down to two hundred and thirty percent.

[Alkar's quarters]
WORF: Worf to Captain Picard. Ambassador Alkar is dead.

[Sickbay]
TROI: Will.

[Troi's quarters]
RIKER: Beverly thinks Alkar must have been at a susceptible point in the meditation ceremony. He was vulnerable.
TROI: Then the flow of negative emotions and feelings were reversed back to him somehow.
RIKER: That's our guess. Like a man with no immune system, he wasn't able to handle the overload.
TROI: And Liva?
RIKER: She seems to be fine. He wasn't able to establish a link on her.
TROI: Looking back on the past few days, it's as though I'm looking at a holodeck projection of someone else.
RIKER: That's how it seemed to all of us.
TROI: Thanks for sticking by me.
RIKER: I always will. Even when you're old and gray.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sensor readings indicate the presence of a G-type star at the center of the sphere. There also appears to be a class-M atmosphere clinging to the interior surface.
PICARD: Is there any indication that the sphere is inhabited?
DATA: Not as yet, sir. Our preliminary data suggests it is still capable of supporting life. We have been unable to find definite signs of current habitation.
PICARD: Mister Data, send out a series of class-four probes to survey the far side of the sphere. Perhaps we'll have more luck with them.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I understand that before the Jenolen crashed, it had conducted an extensive survey of the Dyson sphere. Have we been able to access any of those records?
LAFORGE: We did try to download their memory core, but it was pretty heavily damaged in the crash. We actually haven't been able to get much out of it.
PICARD: Perhaps Captain Scott could be of use in accessing that material.
LAFORGE: It's possible. He does know those systems better than any of us. I'll have Lieutenant Bartel beam down with him.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, I would like you to accompany Captain Scott.
LAFORGE: Me, sir?
PICARD: Yes. Look, this is not an order, it's a request and it's one which you must feel perfectly free to decline. You see, one of the most important things in a person's life is to feel useful. Now, Mister Scott is a Starfleet officer and I would like him to feel useful again.
LAFORGE: I'll go with him, sir.
PICARD: Thank you.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, I believe I have found something on the sphere which could be a communications device. There's an antenna array approximately four hundred thousand kilometers south of our present position. It is emitting low intensity subspace signals.
RIKER: Can you open a channel?
DATA: No, sir, not from our present orbit. The array is currently directed away from us.
RIKER: Ensign, prepare to put us in orbit above those coordinates. Captain Picard to the Bridge, please.

[Bridge]
DATA: The sphere appears to be abandoned. Sensors show that the star is extremely unstable. It is experiencing severe bursts of radiation and matter expulsions.
PICARD: Then that would explain why they abandoned it. But if there's no one still living there, how were we brought inside?
DATA: I believe we triggered a series of automatic piloting beams designed to guide ships into the sphere.
WORF: Sir, Sensors show a large magnetic disturbance on the star's surface.
DATA: It is a solar flare, Captain. Magnitude twelve, class B.
PICARD: Shields?
WORF: Shields are up, but only at twenty three percent.
DATA: The star has entered a period of increased activity. Sensors indicate that the solar flares will continue to grow. In three hours, our shields will no longer be sufficient to protect us, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: Shields still holding, sir, but they are down another fifteen percent.
PICARD: Mister Worf, can we use the phasers to open a hole in the sphere?
WORF: No, sir. The exterior shell is composed of carbon neutronium. Our weapons would be ineffective.
PICARD: Mister Data, we have to find some way out of here. Begin scanning for another hatch or portal that might still be open.
DATA: The interior surface area is over ten to the sixteenth square kilometers. It will take seven hours to completely scan the surface.
DATA: I will endeavor to speed up the process, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, there is an audio message from Commander La Forge.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Enterprise, do you read me?
PICARD: Go ahead, Commander. We read you.

[Jenolen]
LAFORGE: We're using the Jenolen to hold open the hatch that you came through, but our shields aren't going to hold out much longer.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Understood. Ensign, set a course.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: You're going to have to destroy it in order to escape.
PICARD: How much longer before we reach them?
DATA: With impulse engines operating at sixty percent power, it will take one minute and forty seconds.
PICARD: Bridge to Transporter room three. Prepare to beam two from the Jenolen as soon as we're within range.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: Then we sat on the sand for some time and observed How the oceans that cover the world were perturbed By the tides from the orbiting moon overhead 'How relaxing the sound of the waves is,' you said. I began to expound upon tidal effects When you asked me to stop, looking somewhat perplexed. So I did not explain why the sunset turns red And we watched the occurrence, in silence, instead.
DATA: That poem was written in anapaestic tetrameter. For my ninth poem,
RIKER: I don't understand. I can barely keep my eyes open.
DATA: Throughout the ages, from Keats to Jorkemo, poets have composed odes to individuals who have had a profound effect on their lives. In keeping with that tradition, I have written my next poem in honor of my cat. I call it Ode to Spot. Felis catus is your taxonomic nomenclature. An endothermic quadruped, carnivorous by nature. Your visual, olfactory, and auditory senses Contribute to your hunting skill and natural defenses. I find myself intrigued by your subvocal oscillations. A singular development of cat communications That obviates your basic hedonistic predilection, For a rhythmic stroking of your fur to demonstrate affection. A tail is quite essential for your acrobatic talents. You would not be so agile if you lacked its counterbalance. And when not being utilized to aid in locomotion It often serves to illustrate the state of your emotions.
DATA: Commander, you have anticipated my denouement. However, the sentiment is appreciated. I will continue. Oh, Spot, the complex levels of behavior you display Connote a fairly well developed cognitive array. And though you are not sentient, Spot, and do not comprehend I nonetheless consider you a true and valued friend.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: I have no problem getting to sleep. Then I think I'm sleeping all night. When I wake up, I feel exhausted.
CRUSHER: How long has this been going on?
RIKER: Two, three days. Do you have to hold that thing that close? I'm sorry. I've been on edge all day.
CRUSHER: Well. other than some muscle tension in your neck, I don't see anything physically wrong with you. Have you been having bad dreams?
RIKER: Not that I can remember.
CRUSHER: This could be the result of lack of REM sleep.
RIKER: What do you recommend?
CRUSHER: Drink this before going to bed.
RIKER: What is it?
CRUSHER: A recipe for a warm milk toddy.
RIKER: A hot milk toddy? You're kidding.
CRUSHER: The heat activates amino acids in the lactose, making it a natural sedative. Besides, this is a recipe of the Captain's Aunt Adelle. It's delicious.
RIKER: Well. at this point, I'll try anything.
CRUSHER: And listen, if it still bothers you tomorrow, come and see me and I'll run further tests.
RIKER: Thanks.

[Corridor]
DATA: The field imbalance has subsided.
WORF: There may still be a residual discharge. Stand clear.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: And there's no evidence of an EPS explosion.
RIKER: Sensors seemed to think there was.
LAFORGE: I think my modification to the sensor array may have caused a pattern recognition failure.
RIKER: Just a sensor glitch?
LAFORGE: That's my guess.
RIKER: Let's perform a level three diagnostic on the internal sensor network and make sure that we haven't overlooked anything.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Could we pick this up in the morning, Geordi? Get a fresh start? Would you do me a favor? Stop by my quarters, oh seven hundred hours. I'm having trouble waking up.
LAFORGE: Sure, Commander. Goodnight.
RIKER: Goodnight.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Who is it?
LAFORGE: It's La Forge.
RIKER: Come in.
LAFORGE: Good morning.
RIKER: Morning? I just went to bed.
LAFORGE: Commander, it's oh seven hundred hours.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Just before the grid alarm sounded, we were running warp power through this junction. Somehow, it must've tripped the internal scanners.
RIKER: And it showed up as an EPS explosion?
LAFORGE: Yes, but the question is, why? I've made modifications to the sensors before but nothing like this has ever happened.
RIKER: We can't waste time chasing down sensor ghosts. We should probably keep the whole array offline until we can get take a closer look.
LAFORGE: Excuse me.
RIKER: I know the feeling. The past few nights, it seems like as soon as my head hits the pillow, it's time to get up in the morning.
LAFORGE: I'm sure we could all use a little shore leave after this survey's completed.
RIKER: Definitely. Keep me posted?
LAFORGE: Yeah. Data, I'm wondering if you could give me a hand. I need to run a structural integrity scan. I want to make sure that none of the conduit was
DATA: What is it?
LAFORGE: This is the second time today that my visor's just cut out like that.
DATA: Are you all right, Geordi?
LAFORGE: I don't know. I just had a very weird feeling. Maybe I should go to Sickbay.
DATA: I will run the integrity scan.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: This is curious. There's a slight bacterial infection around your neural inputs. It was probably interrupting the data stream.
LAFORGE: An infection? From what?
CRUSHER: It doesn't match any bacterial strains on record. I'm going to have to sterilize the area. But I need to run a resonance tissue scan to search for any signs of additional infection. Come over here. Sit down. Now, come forward. Now, you're going to need to hold very still.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Don't tell me. This can't be right. Data, come here and take a look at this, would you? I think we have another sensor glitch.
DATA: Sensors are functioning normally. They are detecting a subspace particle emission originating from within this room.
LAFORGE: From within this room? That's impossible.
DATA: The emission is emanating from this direction. Geordi.
DATA: The structure of the bulkhead has been altered on a subatomic level. The metal itself is in a state of quasi-molecular flux.
PICARD: What's causing it?
LAFORGE: This is where it gets a little wild, Captain. Behind that panel is a junction we were using to transfer warp power to the sensor array. We're reading a subspace particle stream emanating from that junction.
DATA: It appears to be composed of spatially inverted tetryon particles. We believe they are emanating from a tertiary subspace manifold.
PICARD: But I thought that tetryons were unstable in normal space.
LAFORGE: We don't understand it either, sir. Something from that deep in subspace shouldn't be able to exist in our universe. But there it is.
PICARD: Does it pose a danger to the ship?
LAFORGE: Not unless it spreads. If it does, we can beam the bulkhead into space and erect a forcefield in its place.
PICARD: Well, keep that option ready. In the meantime, proceed with the analysis.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: When I sat down at the console, it triggered a response like I had been trapped. I had to get out of there.
TROI: Was it something about the console itself?
RIKER: No. I felt like I was disconnected. Like it was something I had dreamed.
TROI: You're the third person today who's come to me with something like this. An intense emotional response provoked by an object.
RIKER: Did any of them know why they'd the response?
TROI: No, they couldn't explain it any more than you could. You know, at this point I'm not willing to say it's coincidence.
RIKER: Maybe we should all get together.
TROI: Talking about it would help you understand your response. I'm going to find out if anyone else on the ship has had these kind of experiences.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Other than the tetryon emissions in cargo bay four, our internal sensors haven't recorded anything unusual in the past three days.
PICARD: Initiate a metallurgical analysis of the ship's hull. Subspace field incursions may have left a trace.
WORF: Captain, sensors indicate that Lieutenant Hagler has returned to the Enterprise. He is in his quarters, deck seven, section nineteen.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Computer, emergency entry, Chief Medical Officer Beverly Crusher.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Sickbay. Get a plasma infusion unit to deck seven, section nineteen.
CRUSHER: His blood is turning into a liquid polymer.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: We've set up a containment field in cargo bay four, but the rupture just keeps expanding. I'd say we've got another five or six hours before it breaches the hull.
PICARD: Can we still beam the affected sections out into space?
DATA: No, sir. The spatial rupture is creating severe nucleonic interference. It is impossible to obtain a positive lock on the bulkheads.
PICARD: Has your analysis suggested any way in which we might seal this rupture?
LAFORGE: We think we can close the rupture by neutralizing the tetryon emissions with a coherent graviton pulse. But we'd have to do that at the source.
RIKER: How do we find the source?
LAFORGE: Good question. The emissions are coming from a tertiary subspace domain, but subspace has an infinite number of domains. It's like a huge honeycomb with an endless number of cells. We need to isolate the exact cell that these emissions are coming from.
PICARD: If someone homed onto the subspace signals created by our modified signal array, could we do the same to them? Track the tetryon emissions to their universe?
DATA: Tetryon particles have a random momentum. Our sensors cannot track them, sir.
WORF: Perhaps we could construct a homing device. Something that our sensors could track.
LAFORGE: That's a good idea, but there's no way to get that device to the source.
RIKER: Yes, there is. Give it to me. They've taken me for the last few nights. If I'm right, the same thing'll happen tonight.
LAFORGE: If you had a homing device, we could track it to your location in subspace. And as soon as they send you back to the ship, we could transmit the graviton pulse and neutralize the tetryon emissions.
TROI: If they send him back. Ensign Rager still hasn't been returned.
RIKER: They're going to take me whether I want to go or not.
PICARD: Well, we could wait as long as possible for you to be returned, Number One, but when the spatial ruptures begin to threaten the ship, then we would have to transmit that graviton pulse.
RIKER: Understood.
PICARD: Perhaps there's a way that we could give you an advantage. A way of keeping you conscious after they have taken you. Doctor, can you develop some counter-agent to the neuro-sedative that they have been giving the crew?
CRUSHER: I could give you a neuro-stimulant, but the dosage would have to be rather high to counteract the effects. It could be risky.
RIKER: I'm willing to take that risk.
PICARD: Make it so. Mister La Forge, begin work on that homing device.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: This should be enough to ward off their neuro-sedative for about twelve hours.
RIKER: I hope it's enough.
CRUSHER: It's going to have to be. I can't risk giving you a higher dosage.
LAFORGE: I've locked this tricorder into a continuous cycle. That way, it'll keep recording whether you open it or not. Hopefully you can bring back some information about their domain. We've modified a sensor relay emitter to transmit a subspace beacon. When this indicator lights up, it means that we've locked onto your location.
RIKER: Understood.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain. Commander Riker has been taken from the Enterprise.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, report.
LAFORGE: I still can't locate the homing signal. We've covered the entire upper subspace energy band. We're extending the scan to adjacent levels.
PICARD: Mister Data, your status?
DATA: The rupture has expanded another four point two percent.

[Cargo bay]
DATA: Without further reinforcement, containment field integrity will fail in approximately fourteen minutes.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Can you divert more power to the containment field?
LAFORGE: I can try to augment the field with auxiliary power, but it won't be much.
PICARD: Make it so.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Cargo bay]
DATA: At the present rate, containment failure will occur in approximately nine minutes.

[Cargo bay]
DATA: Captain, the containment field is beginning to fluctuate. Failure anticipated in

[Engineering]
DATA: Three minutes, eleven seconds.
PICARD: We can't afford to wait any longer. Begin the graviton pulse.
LAFORGE: Initiating pulse now.

[Cargo bay]
DATA: Data to Engineering. The graviton pulse is having an effect. Tetryon emissions have decreased by nineteen percent.
DATA: Captain, additional subharmonics have appeared. They are reinforcing the tetryon emissions. They appear to be counter-acting the graviton pulse.

[Engineering]
DATA: The rupture is beginning to expand again, sir.
LAFORGE: Looks like somebody is fighting back.
PICARD: Can you strengthen the graviton pulse?
LAFORGE: I can try to set up a random frequency shift. If we can keep them from guessing our pulse modulation, they might not be able to compensate.

[Cargo bay]
DATA: Tetryon emissions continue to increase. The rupture is still expanding.

[Cargo bay]
DATA: The rupture is beginning to close, sir.

[Cargo bay]
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 46191.2. The tetryon emissions in cargo bay four have ceased, and there have been no further indications of alien intrusions. All Enterprise crewmembers are safe and accounted for. But we are still left with some unanswered questions.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Based on the information gathered by Commander Riker's tricorder, we have determined that the molecular structure of the alien life forms is solanogen-based.
LAFORGE: We think that's why they couldn't come through into our space, as easily as they could take us into theirs. They needed to learn how to remodulate their cellular energy states in order to survive in our universe.
DATA: The tricorder readings indicate they created a small pocket of our universe in their laboratory to keep those they abducted alive.
RIKER: Like putting a fish in a bucket of water.
LAFORGE: That's probably what they were trying to do in cargo bay four. Create a pocket of their universe in ours.
PICARD: What can we do to prevent this from happening again?
LAFORGE: It looks like they found us initially by discovering my modified sensor signal. We should warn all Starfleet ships not to make that same mistake.
PICARD: Have we any idea what came through the rupture before we were able to shut it down?
DATA: No sir. We were unable to track it once it left the cargo bay.
LAFORGE: Maybe it was a probe of some kind.
DATA: Possibly they were simply curious. Explorers like ourselves.
RIKER: Ensign Rager and I were lucky to have escaped. Lieutenant Hagler's dead. Whoever it was sent that thing was more than simply curious.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: She's a little shaken up, but she's going to be.
RIKER: You said she was adopted. Could she be an alien?
CRUSHER: She's human. There's nothing more unusual about her, not that my instruments can detect.
PICARD: Commander, have you been able to determine the cause of the warp breach?
LAFORGE: No, sir. Everything was normal and then suddenly it's like the laws of physics went right out the window.
Q: And why shouldn't they? They're so inconvenient.
PICARD: Q!
Q: Mon Capitane.
PICARD: Are you responsible for the incident in Engineering?
Q: Of course. I needed to find out if what I suspected about the girl were true.
PICARD: That being?
Q: That she's Q.
TROI: Amanda's a Q?
CRUSHER: How is that possible? Her parents, her biological parents, were human.
Q: Well, not exactly. They had assumed human form in order to visit Earth, I suppose for amusement. But in vulgar human fashion they proceeded to conceive a child. And then like mawkish humans, they became attached to it. What is it about those squirming little infants that you find so appealing?
CRUSHER: I'm sure that's beyond your comprehension, Q.
Q: I desperately hope so.
TROI: What happened to Amanda's parents?
Q: They died in an accident. None of us knew whether she had inherited the capacities of the Q, but recently they've began to emerge, and as an expert in humanity, I was sent to investigate.
RIKER: You, an expert in humanity?
Q: Not a very challenging field of study, I grant you.
LAFORGE: Are you saying that you created a core breach just to test this girl?
TROI: What would have happened if she couldn't stop it?
Q: Then I would've known she wasn't a Q.
CRUSHER: And now that you know, what do you intend to do?
Q: Instruct here. If that child does not learn how to control her power, she may accidently destroy herself. Or all of you. Or perhaps your entire galaxy.
PICARD: I find it hard to believe that you're here to do us a favor.
Q: You're quite right I wouldn't. But there are those in the Continuum who have an over-exaggerated sense of responsibility. They think that we need to take precautions to keep the little dear from running amuck.
CRUSHER: And once you've taught her, then you'll go away?
Q: And leave her here? Of course not. She'll come back to the Continuum, where she belongs.
CRUSHER: Wait a minute. You can't just come in here and take her away from everything she's ever known.
Q: I assure you I can.
CRUSHER: She has plans for herself. She wants to have a career and a family.
Q: I'm rescuing her from that miserable existence.
CRUSHER: That miserable existence is all she's known for the last eighteen years. You have no right to take it away from her.
Q: Mon Capitane, I really think that we need to speak privately.

[Ready room]
Q: Well, there, that's better. Crusher gets more shrill with each passing year.
PICARD: Q, what is it you really want?
Q: Well, since you know so much about the Q, I thought you'd the perfect person to introduce me to the child. Let her know she can trust me.
PICARD: I don't trust you, Q. Why should I expect Amanda to?
Q: Well she'd better, because I'm all she's got. She needs me to help her prepare for her future with the Q.
PICARD: But what if she doesn't want that future? It must be her decision.
Q: Oh, yes, yes, yes. Do you think she'll want to remain an enfeebled mortal?
PICARD: But if she really is Q, she must understand what that means. Very well, I will introduce you. But we cannot argue like this in front of her. We must at least appear to be
Q: Pals?
PICARD: Civil.
Q: I knew I could count on you, Jean-Luc.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, I want you to access any available records on Amanda Rogers.
DATA: Yes, Captain.
PICARD: I want to know about her biological parents, about their death. I find it odd that any Q could die in an accident.
DATA: It is not consistent with what we know of them, sir.
PICARD: I'm convinced that Q isn't telling us everything. See what you can find out.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: You agreed that she has a right to choose her own future. The first chance you get you try to abduct her.
Q: You're overreacting as usual, Picard. I was merely testing her power. She's quite a little spitfire, now isn't she?
PICARD: What's going on, Q? What's your real purpose here?
Q: I think I've been perfectly clear. The Continuum has a vested interest in this young woman.
PICARD: If you wish to protect that investment, I suggest that you approach her differently.
Q: She was being impetuous. She'll just have to start behaving like a Q.
PICARD: If I'm not mistaken, she just did.

[Corridor]
Q: Your progress, Q?
Q: As anticipated, there are some problems. I need time. However, there is a possibility we won't have to terminate her.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain.
PICARD: Yes, Mister Data?
DATA: I have further information regarding the tornado that killed Amanda Rogers' parents.
PICARD: What is it?
DATA: It was unusually compact, yet extremely powerful. Its recorded wind velocity was characteristic of a funnel three times its size.
PICARD: Download the files to my Ready room. I'll study them there.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Shuttlebay two]
Q: Not bad. Not bad at all.

[Engineering]
DATA: If we can use phase buffers we may be able to devise a mechanism that can be integrated into the present system while it is in operation.
Q: You're still thinking like a human.

[Ready room]
Q: Bon jour, mon Capitane. You wanted to talk with me?
PICARD: I wanted to ask you about Amanda's biological parents. When they decided to remain on Earth, what was the reaction in the Q Continuum?
Q: We found it incomprehensible.
PICARD: Were they pressured to return? Were they threatened with any punishment if they didn't?
Q: What are you driving at, Picard?
PICARD: Well, the circumstance of their death's quite odd. A tornado somehow escaped the weather modification net and touched down in only one spot. Amanda's home.
Q: Well, you never can predict the weather.
PICARD: But tornadoes develop from existing storm fronts. But you see, there were no storm fronts in Kansas that day. Witnesses reported that the funnel materialized spontaneously directly over Amanda's home, destroyed it, and disappeared.
Q: If you say so. I wasn't there.
PICARD: Were Amanda's parents executed by the Q Continuum?
Q: And what if they were?
PICARD: Then I think she has a right to know that before she makes a choice about her future.
Q: Don't be foolish, Picard. She has no choice. She never did. If she's truly Q, then she must return to the Continuum where she belongs. But if she were some kind of hybrid, neither human nor Q, then
PICARD: You would be so despicable?
Q: Don't be naive. You have no idea what it means to be Q. With unlimited power comes responsibility. Do you think it is reasonable for us to allow omnipotent beings to roam free through the universe?
PICARD: So what have you concluded? Does she live or does she die?
Q: I haven't decided yet.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 46193.8. We have arrived at Tagra Four and have begun delivering supplies. In the meantime, I am faced with a crisis of a different nature.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Look, I have no reason to believe that Q is lying. He claims he has orders from the Continuum. If Amanda cannot prove that she is fully Q, then he must kill her.
TROI: We have to tell her.
CRUSHER: I don't know if we should. It almost seems cruel.
TROI: Maybe she can protect herself. After all, she has a great deal of power.
CRUSHER: So did her parents. It didn't save them.
PICARD: I agree with the Counselor. Amanda deserves to know the truth of her situation. We have no right to withhold such crucial information from her. But it isn't going to be easy telling her.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What's happening, Mister Worf?
WORF: The shuttle has been enveloped by an energy field. It's engines and life support have failed.
RIKER: Increase to full impulse. Bridge to Transporter room three. Prepare to beam the shuttle crew back once we're in range.
O'BRIEN: Ready, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Have you got them, O'Brien?
O'BRIEN: I'm trying, sir.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I can't get a pattern lock.
RIKER: The shuttle is

[Bridge]
RIKER: Coming apart, Chief. We've got to do it now.

[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: I've got them. There's a forty percent drop in mass.

[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: I may have lost one of them.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: This is Captain Picard's rybo-viroxic-nucleic structure from a tissue sample I took this morning. It's the same as a sample I took before the accident, except it's missing several of the key viroxic sequences.
RIKER: It's been a long time since I took genetics, Doctor.
CRUSHER: RVN is one of the key factors in our development during puberty. Unlike DNA, which never changes, RVN takes on some additional viroxic sequences during adolescence. Those sequences determine how we develop physically.
RIKER: Without them we would never mature into adults.
CRUSHER: Exactly. Somehow, those sequences were eliminated in the Captain and the others during transport.
RIKER: So what do we do?
CRUSHER: Well, we have a couple of options. These are the plants Keiko was carrying on the shuttle. Whatever turned the crew into children turned these plants into seedlings. I accelerated the growth on one of them, and it developed into a perfectly normal adult plant.
RIKER: I don't suppose that would work with people?
CRUSHER: No, but at least we know that if we do nothing at all, they will probably grow up just as they did before.
RIKER: That's one option.
CRUSHER: However, I do have the adult RVN patterns of all four of them. I might be able to send them back through the transporter pattern buffer and replace the missing sequences. But we can't even attempt that until we know why this happened in the first place. If somehow they were to lose more viroxic sequences.
RIKER: They would get even younger.

[Shuttlebay two]
LAFORGE: Chief, I got the sensor report on the shuttle break-up. It looks like the break-up began near the starboard bulkhead.
O'BRIEN: There're some bulkhead fragments over here.
LAFORGE: My visor's picking up some torsional stress damage, some micro-fractures. Hang on a second. What's this?
O'BRIEN: It looks like tritanium from the hull.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but look.
LAFORGE: That's not tritanium anymore. Somehow the molecular structure of this alloy's been changed, broken down into its constituent elements.
O'BRIEN: No wonder the bulkhead shattered.
LAFORGE: Yeah. I want to get a sample of this down to Engineering and run a metallurgical analysis.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We think the shuttle was caught in a molecular reversion field, which caused the structure of the ship to deteriorate. When the field penetrated the hull, it also began to affect the shuttle's crew.
O'BRIEN: When I tried to beam them off, I wasn't able to get a lock because the reversion field was masking part of the patterns.
CRUSHER: If the transporter only registered part of the RVN patterns, that would explain why the key sequences are missing.
LAFORGE: Exactly. With those key sequences missing, the transporter reconstructed them as children.
RIKER: If they're right, would you be able to use the transporter to reverse the effects?
CRUSHER: I think so. As long as there's no reversion field to mask their patterns, we should be able to do it. Chief, can you adjust the molecular imaging scanners to accept
WORF: Bridge to Commander Riker.
RIKER: Go ahead.
WORF: We are entering orbit around Ligos Seven, sir.
RIKER: On my way. We'll discuss this later.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Standard orbit, Ensign. Any sign of the science team?
DATA: We've been scanning the area since entering the system, but our readings are being disrupted.
RIKER: Cause?
DATA: Extreme fluctuations in the electromagnetic field. However, there is no evidence of stellar or seismic activity which would cause the interference.
RIKER: Any response to our hails, Mister Worf?
WORF: No, sir. I have been attempting to. Commander, two ships decloaking fore and aft. Klingon birds of prey, B'rel class.
RIKER: Maximum shields. Take us out of orbit, Ensign. Mister Worf, prepare to return fire.
RIKER: Damage report.
WORF: We've lost primary life support. Switching to secondary systems.
RIKER: Lock phasers on target bearing to port.
WORF: Phasers locked.
RIKER: Fire.
DATA: Minor damage to one ship. Its shields are holding.
WORF: Starboard power coupling is down. Warp engines are offline.
RIKER: Shields?
WORF: Down to thirteen percent.
WORF: Casualties reported on decks twenty six and twenty seven.
DATA: Sensors and secondary generators are offline. Life support down to sixty seven percent.
RIKER: Engineering, status report.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Those last shots took out auxiliary power and emergency back-up. It's going to take at least an hour to get

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Warp power back online.
WORF: We have lost shields. Heavy casualties on decks thirty five through forty.
DATA: I am detecting transporter signatures in three cargo bays. We are being boarded, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: So, one more time. The ramistat kiloquad capacity is a function of the square root of the intermix ratio times the sum of the plasma injector quotient.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Computer, stop playback. Change the clarinet to an oboe. Continue recording.
PICARD: Computer, pause playback. Come.
PICARD: Yes, gentlemen?
LAFORGE: Captain we'd like your permission to take the Engineering computer offline for a couple of hours. We're working on a new interface that would allow Data to act as an emergency backup in the event of a ship-wide systems failure.
DATA: In theory, my neural network should be able to sustain key systems until primary control is restored.
PICARD: It sounds like an intriguing experiment. I'll be interested to see the results. Permission granted.
LAFORGE: It's possible we may even be able to run secondary systems through Data. Weapons control, sensor arrays.
PICARD: Yes, I get the idea, Mister La Forge. Thank you. Please proceed.
PICARD: Computer, begin playback from the first measure.
PICARD: Computer, pause recording. Come.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I need to talk to you about Something for Breakfast.
PICARD: Breakfast?
CRUSHER: The play.
PICARD: Ah, yes. Well, it's a very intriguing drama, but I really don't have the time it would take to learn a part. And anyway, I'm not much of an actor.
CRUSHER: That's no problem.
PICARD: Oh?
CRUSHER: Well, you wouldn't be playing one of the leads.
PICARD: Oh.
CRUSHER: It's a very small part. Only two lines.
PICARD: Really.
CRUSHER: You play the butler.
PICARD: Well, I'll think about it and let you know.
CRUSHER: You would be wonderful, Jean-Luc. We're rehearsing today at one thirty.
PICARD: Computer, begin playback from the first measure.
PICARD: Computer, pause recording. Yes?
WORF: Captain, I am sorry to interrupt.
PICARD: No, please, Mister Worf, come in.
WORF: I was hoping to take advantage of the Biko's delay by staging shipwide security drills. I have planned a tentative schedule.
PICARD: Oh yes, this is very impressive, Mister Worf. But we'll be taking on new personnel at Starbase one eighteen in a few weeks. Surely the drills can wait until then.
WORF: In that case, I will use the time to perform maintenance checks on the forward phaser array.
PICARD: Mister Worf, is there some reason why you're trying to give yourself more work?
WORF: No, sir. I simply wish to use the extra time
PICARD: Enjoy yourself. You have the free time. Use it.
WORF: Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Computer, continue recording and playback once more. From the top.

[Worf's quarters]
ALEXANDER: Father! What did he say?
WORF: The Captain saw fit to release me from my duties.
ALEXANDER: You mean you can go?
WORF: I can go.
ALEXANDER: Saddle up, Father.

[Deadwood, main street]
WORF: Where are we?
ALEXANDER: Deadwood. Nineteenth century Earth. The Ancient West.
WORF: What is our function here?
ALEXANDER: You're the Sheriff and I'm the deputy.
WORF: So, we are in law enforcement.
ALEXANDER: Right.

[Engineering]
DATA: Geordi, I have noticed that you have not shaved. Are you attempting to grow another beard?
LAFORGE: As a matter of fact, I am, Data. What do you think?
DATA: As is the case with many natural growth processes, it is difficult to envision the end product based on an intermediate stage.
LAFORGE: You're right. Give it a few more days.
LAFORGE: Okay, I'm going to need to access your auxiliary inputs.
DATA: One moment.
LAFORGE: I must admit, Data, I never get used to seeing you like this.
DATA: I do not understand. You are constantly working on similar electronic systems, yet their appearances do not disturb you.
LAFORGE: But you're not just another electronic system.
DATA: Thank you, Geordi. Nor are you just another biological organism.
LAFORGE: All right, that should do it. Are you ready?
DATA: Yes. Establishing computer linkup. Interface complete.
LAFORGE: All right, let's see what you can do.

[Deadwood, main street]
WORF: You wrote this holodeck program yourself?
ALEXANDER: Well, Mister Barclay helped a little.
WORF: I must have a little talk with Mister Barclay.

[Engineering]
DATA: I am now attempting to access the long range sensor array.
LAFORGE: Forward sensor array coming online. We're getting a clear scan.
DATA: I will perform a routine maintenance check on the starboard inertial damping system.
LAFORGE: Dampers online. Maintenance check in progress. Data, I think we're on to something here. Let's see what you can do with secondary systems. Try gravitational control.
DATA: Initiating gravitational
LAFORGE: What's wrong?
DATA: There appears to be an energy fluctuation in my neural net. I am disconnecting my interface to the computer. Interface deactivated.
LAFORGE: You all right?
DATA: I have experienced a brief power surge in my positronic subprocessor. But I am fine.
LAFORGE: Maybe the interface coding isn't as stable than we thought. Looks like we've got a couple of hours of systems analysis before we can try this again. Let's check the interface programming.

[Rehearsal room]
CRUSHER: Okay, let's work through Act two from the beginning. Whenever you're ready.
RIKER: Felis catus, is your taxonomic nomenclature. An endothermic quadruped, carnivorous by nature.
CRUSHER: Hold it. Will, what are you reading?
RIKER: The lines. Why?
CRUSHER: That's not the right dialogue.
CRUSHER: Your visual, olfactory, and auditory senses contribute to
RIKER: I recognize it. This is Data's poetry.
CRUSHER: What? The play's gone. I just keep getting more poetry.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Well, the PADDs are functioning normally. It seems to be a problem with the information retrieval net. Somehow when you tried to call up your play, the computer accessed Data's literary files.
DATA: Geordi, perhaps this problem is related to our interface experiment.
LAFORGE: We'd better run a level two diagnostic on the computer. See if this problem has spread to any other systems.
DATA: And I will perform a self-diagnostic.
LAFORGE: That's a good idea.
CRUSHER: You will let me know if you find the play?
LAFORGE: Oh yeah, don't worry. It's in here somewhere.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Feline supplement one hundred twenty seven. Spot, I have formulated a new mixture of foods specifically designed for your highly selective tastes.
DATA: I find it extremely difficult to predict what you will find acceptable. Perhaps hunger will compel you to try it again.
DATA: Spot, you are disrupting my ability to work.
DATA: Vamoose, you little varmint.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: We think our interface experiment may have caused one of the computer's core subroutines to be altered.
DATA: When the interface malfunction occurred, subroutine C forty seven was replaced by elements from my personal programming.
RIKER: What does C forty seven control?
LAFORGE: Library computer access, replicator selection, recreational programming. No critical systems.
DATA: That would explain why your music composition program began playing The Slavonic Dances. I have been analyzing the collected works of Antonin Dvorak.
LAFORGE: It's the same with Doctor Crusher's play, and with the food replicators.
RIKER: The replicators on decks four through nine are producing nothing but cat food.
PICARD: Cat food?
DATA: I have been formulating nutritional supplements for Spot.
PICARD: When can you correct the problem?
DATA: We are currently attempting to isolate the corrupt circuit pathways. I reckon the process should take less then two hours.
PICARD: What did you say?
DATA: I said the process should take less than two hours.
RIKER: No, you said I reckon.
DATA: According to my memory log, I did not use those words. Ya'll must be mistaken.
LAFORGE: There, Data, you did it again.
DATA: Did whut?
PICARD: Mister La Forge, perhaps you should take Mister Data to Engineering. See if you can find the problem.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Mister Data.
DATA: Howdy, Commander.
RIKER: Geordi, what have you found?
DATA: Well, we figure part of my memory structure was replaced with information from the computer's recreational data base.
LAFORGE: Specifically, the files relating to the nineteenth century American West.
RIKER: That would explain the accent.
DATA: You got it, partner.
RIKER: This is a result of the experimental interface?
LAFORGE: I'm afraid so. But we've initiated a progressive memory purge to restore Data's programming to its original state. He should be back to normal in a couple of hours.
RIKER: And what about the computer's recreational data base?
LAFORGE: We started a memory purge there as well. It'll take another hour, maybe two.
DATA: Commander. You just sit tight. We'll have this all fixed up in time for supper.
RIKER: Good.

[Alexander's bedroom]
ALEXANDER: Father? After what happened I guess you'll never want to go back to the Ancient West.
WORF: The town of Deadwood may face danger once again. If they do, they will need a Sheriff and a deputy.

[Riker's quarters]
WORF: Commander, is it your intention to continue to grow your beard?
LAFORGE: Actually, I'm not sure yet. Why, Worf?
WORF: I am just asking.
CRUSHER: Seven card stud, one-eyed jacks are wild.
RIKER: Frankly, Geordi, I like the beard.
LAFORGE: Thank you, Commander.
CRUSHER: You know, I have always been a little suspicious of men with beards.
WORF: Why is that?
CRUSHER: I don't know. It's as if they're trying to hide something.
RIKER: Hide? Don't be ridiculous, Doctor. The beard is an ancient and proud tradition.
LAFORGE: Some of the most distinguished men in history have worn beards, Doctor.
CRUSHER: I know. But after the razor was invented I think beards became mostly a fashion statement.
WORF: I'm not concerned with fashion. To a Klingon, a beard is a symbol of courage.
RIKER: I think it's a sign of strength.
CRUSHER: Sure, and of course, women can't grow beards.
LAFORGE: Doctor, it sounds to me like you feel beards are nothing more than an affectation.
CRUSHER: I do. But there's nothing wrong with that. I mean, women wear makeup and nail polish. I just think it's time you men admitted it.
RIKER: My beard is not an affectation.
CRUSHER: Oh? Well then you wouldn't mind shaving it off.
RIKER: I could lose it in a minute. I've just gotten used to it.
CRUSHER: Okay, then why don't we up the stakes a little? And if I win, all off you shave your beards off.
LAFORGE: Wait a minute, wait a minute. What if you lose? What are you going to give up?
CRUSHER: I'm open for suggestions.
RIKER: Well, I've always wanted to see you as a brunette.
CRUSHER: Oh, I did that once when I was thirteen. I couldn't change back fast enough.
RIKER: That makes me even more curious.
CRUSHER: Fine. If one of you wins, I become a brunette. Are we on?
LAFORGE: Yeah, yeah, we'll take that bet.
CRUSHER: Looks like you have the hand to beat, Commander.
LAFORGE: Two hundred.
CRUSHER: I'm in two hundred.
RIKER: Geordi.
PICARD: This is the Captain. We have arrived at the Tyran system. All senior staff to the Bridge.
CRUSHER: Wait!
RIKER: Sorry, you heard the Captain. Duty calls. I guess we'll have to do this some other time.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 46307.2. We have just come into orbit of Tyrus Seven A to monitor progress on the Tyran particle fountain, a radically new mining technology. So far the project has been fraught with problems, and is well behind schedule. Mister La Forge has been assigned to evaluate the situation.

[Bridge]
DATA: I am reading significant power fluctuations from the station core. Please report.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander La Forge, please report.

[Particle fountain laboratory]
LAFORGE: We're fine, Data. The power grid is fully restored.
LAFORGE: The malfunction seems to have been repaired and operations over here at the station are all back to normal.

[Bridge]
DATA: How were you able to accomplish the repair so quickly?

[Particle fountain laboratory]
LAFORGE: You know, I'm not exactly sure.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 46315.2. Repairs to the particle fountain seem to have succeeded and it is now functioning smoothly. Doctor Farallon is coming aboard to demonstrate the device that carried out the repairs.

[Sickbay]
WORF: Doctor, if you wish to master the bat'telh sword, you must learn to strike and avoid in the same motion.
CRUSHER: I almost got in under your guard, Worf.
WORF: Almost.
CRUSHER: Well, I'll keep that in mind next lesson.
DATA: Doctor, are you injured?
CRUSHER: Only my pride, Data. Thanks.
DATA: Doctor, what is the definition of life?
CRUSHER: That is a big question. Why do you ask?
DATA: I am searching for a definition that will allow me to test an hypothesis.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: Well, the broadest scientific definition might be that life is what enables plants and animals to consume food, derive energy from it, grow, adapt themselves to their surroundings and reproduce.
DATA: And you suggest that anything which exhibits these characteristics is considered alive?
CRUSHER: In general, yes.
DATA: What about fire?
CRUSHER: Fire?
DATA: Yes. It consumes fuel to produce energy, it grows, it creates offspring. By your definition, is it alive?
CRUSHER: Fire is a chemical reaction. You could use the same argument for growing crystals, but obviously we don't consider them alive.
DATA: And what about me? I do not grow. I do not reproduce. I am considered to be alive.
CRUSHER: That's true, but you are unique.
DATA: I wonder if that is so.
CRUSHER: Data, if I may ask. Have a seat. What exactly are youe getting at?
DATA: I am curious as to what transpired between the moment when I was nothing more than an assemblage of parts in Doctor Soong's laboratory, and the next moment, when I became alive. What was it that endowed me with life?
CRUSHER: I remember Wesley asking me a similar question when he was little, and I tried desperately to give him an answer, but everything I said sounded inadequate. Then I realized that scientists and philosophers had been grappling with that question for centuries without coming to any conclusion.
DATA: Are you saying the question cannot be answered?
CRUSHER: No, I think I'm saying that we struggle all our lives to answer it, but it's the struggle that's important. That's what helps us to define our place in the universe.
DATA: I believe I understand, Doctor.
CRUSHER: I don't think I've been very much help, Data.
DATA: On the contrary, you have been a great deal of help. Thank you.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Do you read me?
RIKER: Riker here, sir.
WORF: Radiation field is increasing. We are losing communications.
PICARD: Prepare for emergency transport.
RIKER: Red alert. Riker to transporter room two. Prepare for emergency transport.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, the particle fountain is continuing to surge. At the present rate, the radiation in the station core will reach fatal levels in twenty three minutes.

[Particle fountain laboratory]
LAFORGE: Captain, if I can access the field emitters, we should be able to establish a force field. See if you can link your console to my command system sub-routine.
PICARD: All right. Link established.
LAFORGE: Okay, here we go.
PICARD: I'm reading power fluctuations. The force field is not stable.
LAFORGE: Yeah, I know. The radiation levels are too high. The emitters are beginning to deteriorate.
PICARD: How long can we expect it to last?
LAFORGE: Not very long.
PICARD: We have to keep it up long enough for Commander Riker to get to us.
LAFORGE: Maybe we can help him out. See if you can access the emergency shut down routine. I'll try to activate the ionic dampers.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Mister Worf, target two hundred meters below the apex of the particle stream. Feed the coordinates to transporter room two.
WORF: Aye, sir. Coordinates received.
RIKER: Mister Kelso.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Energize.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Mister Kelso?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Run a diagnostic immediately. Try bypassing the
DATA: Commander, that will not be necessary. The transporter is not malfunctioning. I have locked out the controls.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: I gave you a direct order, Mister Data. You release that transporter lockout now.
DATA: I cannot do that, sir.
RIKER: If you don't do it, I will relieve you of duty.
DATA: That is your prerogative, sir. Under Starfleet regulations, direct insubordination is a court martial offense. But I will not release the transporter.
RIKER: Data, those are two of your friends out there. They have saved your life more times than I can remember. I can't believe you'd be willing to sacrifice them like this.
DATA: Commander, please do not think this is an arbitrary decision. I have considered the ramifications of my actions carefully, and I do not believe it is justifiable to sacrifice one life form for another.
RIKER: You don't know that the exocomps are life forms.
DATA: It is true I am acting on my personal beliefs, but I do not see how I can do otherwise.
RIKER: You're risking a lot on the basis of a belief.
DATA: I have observed that humans often base their judgments on what is referred to as instinct or intuition. Because I am a machine, I lack that particular ability. However it may be possible that I have insight into other machines that humans lack.
RIKER: If there were a way to save the Captain and Geordi without destroying the exocomps, I would jump on it, but we have run out of time and this is the only solution I've got.
DATA: Then let me offer an alternative. Transport me to the station, I will attempt a complete manual shut down of the particle stream.
RIKER: The radiation levels are too high, even for you. Your positronic net would ionize in no time. I can't let you sacrifice yourself.
DATA: Commander, if I give my life to save my fellow officers, that is my choice. The exocomps no longer have a choice.
RIKER: Then what if we re-connect their command pathways and we give them a choice? You've assumed the exocomps would shut down before accepting this mission. What if we ask them if they are willing to proceed.
DATA: That sounds reasonable, sir. If they choose to go, I would be willing to release the transporter lock out.
RIKER: Fair enough.

[Particle fountain laboratory]
PICARD: Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: What are they up to?
PICARD: The exocomps are siphoning power from the core.
LAFORGE: They're trying to distort the particle stream frequency. That might open up a window that the Enterprise can use to beam us out. If they can modulate the radiation field, it'll work, but they'll have to get the sub-harmonic frequencies to resonance. The particle stream frequency is beginning to fluctuate. They're having a little difficulty controlling the feedback. It may be more power than they can handle.
PICARD: Can we help them? Is there any way we can moderate the power transfer?
LAFORGE: No, sir. We've done all that we can do. It's up to them now. They're balancing the power absorption rates. It's working. The particle stream is beginning to distort. Almost at resonance. They've got it.
PICARD: Drop the force field.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Commander, he's asked me to completely reroute half the power systems on the ship, change every duty roster, realign the warp coils in two days, and now he's transferred a third of my department to Security.
RIKER: If it makes you feel any better, you're not alone. Captain Jellico has made major changes in every department on the ship.
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, I don't mind making changes and I don't mind hard work, but the man isn't giving me the time I need to do the work. Someone's got to get him to listen to reason.
RIKER: It's not going to be me. He's made that abundantly clear.
LAFORGE: Well then, can I make a suggestion? Talk to Captain Picard. Maybe he can do something. We just need a little time.
RIKER: All right.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Are you all right, sir?
PICARD: Yes, I am. The last time I had to train like this was for the Academy marathon, but I'm managing. What can I do for you?
RIKER: It's nothing urgent. I'm sorry I bothered you. Good night.

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: Shuttlecraft Feynman to Enterprise. We have cleared the shuttlebay.
RIKER: Acknowledged, Feynman. Good luck.
PICARD: Thank you, Enterprise. Well, now that we're under way, I can tell you about our mission. Starfleet Intelligence believes the Cardassians are developing a metagenic weapon.
CRUSHER: Oh my God.
WORF: I am not familiar with metagenics.
CRUSHER: They're genetically engineered viruses that are designed to destroy entire ecozystems. When metagenic toxins are released into a planet's atmosphere, they immediately begin to mutate. They seek out and destroy all forms of DNA they encounter. In a few days, everything is dead.
PICARD: In a month, the metagenic agent itself breaks down and dissipates completely, leaving every city, every road, every piece of equipment perfectly intact.
WORF: Leaving the planet safe to be conquered. Wouldn't using such a weapon pose as great a risk to the attacker as to the target?
CRUSHER: That's why metagenics and other biological weapons were outlawed years ago. Even the Romulans have abided with those agreements.
PICARD: Starfleet Intelligence believes that the Cardassians are developing a new delivery system, one that would protect them from accidental exposure to the toxin. They believe that the Cardassians are testing a way of launching dormant metagenic material on a subspace carrier wave.
CRUSHER: So they could activate the toxins after the launch, thereby preventing any accidental exposure.
PICARD: And because the subspace wave would appear simply as background radiation, no one would realize what was happening until it was too late. Now, for the past few weeks, theta-band subspace emissions have been detected coming from Celtris Three. Those emissions may indicate that a metagenic delivery system in operation.
WORF: What do we know about Celtris Three?
PICARD: Very little. It was thought to be uninhabited until these emissions were detected. Starfleet believes that the Cardassians may have a secret research lab located somewhere below the planet surface. Our orders are to penetrate this Celtris Three installlation and determine if the Cardassians are actually building a metagenic weapon.
CRUSHER: And if they are?
PICARD: Destroy it. At any cost. When I was on the Stargazer, we conducted extensive tests using theta band carrier waves. One of the reasons I was selected for this mission is my familiarity with the methods used for generating them. Mister Worf, your presence here is obvious. Doctor, your job will be to locate and destroy any biotoxins we may find.
WORF: Celtris Three is in Cardassian space. How will we get there undetected?
PICARD: I know a way of acquiring some diskreet transport. Mister Worf, set a course for Torman Five.

[Caverns]
PICARD: Beverly, make sure that your tricorder is keeping a precise map of the route. We could very easily get lost in here.
CRUSHER: Right. I'm picking up some subspace signals, but I can't seem to get a lock on them.
PICARD: That's typical of theta-band emissions. You have to compress the detection band width in order to determine the fix. The source emission is five hundred meters east of here. And seven hundred meters below.
PICARD: It's all right. They're called lynars, a kind of Celtrine bat. They're harmless.
WORF: Bats?
CRUSHER: You're not afraid of bats, are you, Worf?
WORF: Of course not. First Officer's log, supplemental. We have rendezvoused with the Cardassian ship Reklar to begin diplomatic talks designed to ease tensions along the border.

[Precipice]
CRUSHER: The floor is over five hundred meters down from here.
PICARD: There doesn't seem to be a way around. We'll have to rappel from here. This is sheer granite. We'll have to use fusing pitons.
CRUSHER: We could try to find another way down.
PICARD: Unfortunately, that would take several hours. We don't have the time.
WORF: You're not afraid of heights, are you, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Of course not.
PICARD: Now, remember to control your descent and don't get the lines tangled.
CRUSHER: I'll remember.
PICARD: All right?

[Precipice bottom]
PICARD: The installlation should be about three hundred meters this way.
CRUSHER: I don't suppose we'll be able to find another way to get back up there.
WORF: I doubt it.
CRUSHER: That's what I thought.

[Caverns]
PICARD: There's a lava tube beyond here that runs for seventy five meters, then it connects with another chamber. We need to get through here. This tube opens up beyond this crack. We could widen the opening, then we should be able to crawl through. Mister Worf.
WORF: A phaser set to level sixteen should suffice.
PICARD: Make it so.
PICARD: Well done, Mister Worf.

[Lava tube]
PICARD: Only a few more meters.
PICARD: Beverly, get out of there! Beverly!
WORF: I have her.
PICARD: Are you all right?
CRUSHER: I think so. Next time, you try bring up the rear.
PICARD: We're nearly there. Can you continue?

[Installlation entrance]
PICARD: Looks like a maintenance hatch to the installlation. I'm picking up three proximity sensors around it.
WORF: Sensor echoes established, but the false image will only last a few minutes. The hatch is magnetically sealed, but I believe I can bypass it.
CRUSHER: I can't get a scan from the other side of the hatch. It's been shielded.
PICARD: We have no choice. Remember, aim low. Fire in short, controlled bursts.
WORF: Ready.
PICARD: Now.

[Chamber]
CRUSHER: There's no one here. There's no lab.
PICARD: It's a trap. Come on.
WORF: Captain!

[Installlation entrance]
CRUSHER: Let's go.
WORF: The Captain.
CRUSHER: No. There are five more of them heading this way from another tunnel. Come on. Now!

[Shuttlecraft]
LAFORGE: We've lost primary navigation. Switching to secondary systems.
RIKER: Inertial dampers compensating.
LAFORGE: Sensors inoperative.
RIKER: Right on schedule.
LAFORGE: The proximity detector is working. We should be able to read their ships at a distance of five hundred meters.
RIKER: Don't make this too easy.
RIKER: Hang on.
LAFORGE: Do I want to know how close that was?
RIKER: No. Get ready to deploy the mines.

[Ready room]
PICARD: I, er, I don't know where to begin. It was
TROI: I read your report.
PICARD: What I didn't put in the report was that at the end he gave me a choice between a life of comfort or more torture. All I had to do was to say that I could see five lights, when in fact, there were only four.
TROI: You didn't say it?
PICARD: No, no, but I was going to. I would have told him anything. Anything at all. But more than that, I believed that I could see five lights.

[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Whoa, whoa, Reg.
BARCLAY: Sorry, Commander. I'm on my way to the holodeck.
DATA: Sherlock Holmes program three A has demonstrated some very curious anomalies.
BARCLAY: There must have been a glitch in the matrix diodes, but I'll track it down, don't worry.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Reg. See you later.

[Engineering]
DATA: Since both planets are gas giants, neither possesses a solid surface. Their atmospheres, however, will come into contact in approximately seventeen hours nine minutes.
LAFORGE: If their collision causes a self-sustaining fusion reaction, this is what we are likely to see. The birth of a new star. The Enterprise will hold position until the gravitational instability subsides and we can get in for a closer look. Now I want triple redundancy on all of the sensor arrays. We'll probably never get another chance to see something like this. I don't want to miss anything. Okay?
BARCLAY: Commander, you'll never believe what happened while I was working on your program in the holodeck. Professor Moriarty appeared, out of nowhere.
LAFORGE: What?
BARCLAY: And he wants to talk to the Captain.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: I understand his frustration. We created him and we created her to be the woman he loves. Surely we have some responsibility to them.
CRUSHER: It's very romantic, but until we know just what it was that walked off the holodeck, I don't think we should be trying it again.
BARCLAY: Even if we decided to do it, there's no guarantee that we'd be able to.
DATA: There is also no way of knowing if the Professor's ability to exist off the holodeck is permanent. It may be unwise to consider creating a second individual while this uncertainty exists.
PICARD: Agreed. We don't have enough information about this phenomenon to act in a responsible way. I think we'll hold off on Professor Moriarty's request for now, but continue with your investigation. In the meantime, I have to deal with Professor Moriarty.

[Engineering]
DATA: Perhaps we should consider the transporter system. It uses many of the same principles as the holodeck. Both, for example, are capable of converting energy into matter.
LAFORGE: Except the transporter reconstitutes energy in a permanent form. Holodeck matter doesn't have any cohesion unless it's inside the grid.
BARCLAY: I wonder, what would happen if we tried to beam a holodeck object off the grid?
LAFORGE: Nothing would happen. A holodeck object is just a simulation. There's nothing there to provide a pattern lock for the transporter.
DATA: However, if it were possible to lock onto the object, it might rematerialize with the same molecular cohesion as conventional matter.
LAFORGE: That's a big leap, Data. I just don't think the transporter is going to accept simulated matter.
BARCLAY: Unless, unless we could find a way to compensate for the phase variance. If we could modify the pattern enhancers we just might do it.
PICARD: Well, Professor Moriarty has agreed not to interfere with routine ship operations so long as he believes we're acting in good faith, then I don't think we're in immediate danger. Any progress?
LAFORGE: We were just talking about using the transporter to beam the Countess off the holodeck, but I don't quite see how it's going to work.
PICARD: Well, keep at it. I have to tell him that we are making some progress. Mister La Forge. Do you have any idea how Moriarty could have gained control of the ship?
LAFORGE: Somehow he managed to override the security lockouts and rewrite them. The man is brilliant in any century.
PICARD: I want you to find some way to undo what he has done so that we can regain control of this ship.

[Transporter room]
DATA: Go ahead, Lieutenant.
BARCLAY: I'm ready here.
DATA: Modifications are complete.

[221B Baker Street]
DATA: Stand by.
BARCLAY: Standing by.

[Transporter room]
DATA: Activating pattern enhancers. Energizing. I am having difficulty establishing a pattern lock. Boost the confinement beam, please. Pattern lock established.

[Transporter room]
DATA: No. It lost its cohesion as soon as the transporter cycle was complete.

[221b Baker Street]
BARCLAY: Well, it was a long shot to begin with.
DATA: Agreed. However, we may be able to learn something from the attempt.

[221b Baker Street]
DATA: Is being presented.
BARCLAY: Well, that's impossible.
DATA: It is almost as if

[Transporter room]
DATA: Our attempt to transport the chair never occurred.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Computer, resume program.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: The gravity well is beginning to intensify.
RIKER: Are we far enough away to keep from being pulled in?
LAFORGE: It's too soon to tell.
RIKER: Riker to Lieutenant Worf.
WORF: Worf here, sir.
RIKER: How are you doing?

[Corridor]
WORF: There are force fields blocking our access to the holodeck. It will take time to disable them.
RIKER: Keep trying.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Shuttlebay]
PICARD: Computer. Store program Picard delta one in active memory and discontinue simulation.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Well, it worked. They believed they were off the holodeck.
DATA: Did Moriarty release the voice commands, Captain?
PICARD: Let's find out. Computer, discontinue holodeck simulation created by Professor Moriarty.

[Holodeck]
BARCLAY: So far, so good. This should be the holodeck on the real Enterprise.
PICARD: Picard to Bridge.
RIKER: Captain, are you all right?
PICARD: Yes, we are, Number One. What is your status?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Our systems came back online a few minutes ago.
PICARD: And the planetary collision?
RIKER: We're pulling back to a safe distance.

[Holodeck]
PICARD: We'll join you shortly.
WORF: Captain.
PICARD: Mister Worf, everything is all right.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: How did you do it, sir?
PICARD: We managed to program the holodeck inside the holodeck, and use the same ruse that Moriarty used on us.
DATA: When he was attempting to contact the real Bridge, he was in fact speaking to a simulation.
TROI: You mean he never knew he hadn't left the holodeck?
PICARD: In fact, the program is continuing even now inside that cube.
CRUSHER: A miniature holodeck?
DATA: In a way, Doctor. However, there is no physicality. The program is continuous but only within the computer's circuitry.
BARCLAY: As far as Moriarty and the Countess know, they're half way to Meles Two by now. This enhancement module contains enough active memory to provide them experiences for a lifetime.
PICARD: They will live their lives and never know any difference.
TROI: In a sense, you did give Moriarty what he wanted.
PICARD: In a sense. But who knows? Our reality may be very much like theirs. All this might be just be an elaborate simulation running inside a little device sitting on someone's table. Well, we have a newborn star to study. Mister Barclay, you will keep that safe?
BARCLAY: Aye, sir.
BARCLAY: Computer, end program.

[Relay Station ops]
CRUSHER: What's that noise?
LAFORGE: They must've left an audio monitoring system on. We're hearing a few thousand subspace messages. I'll try and shut it off. Got it.
RIKER: Geordi, what's that?
LAFORGE: I don't know. Sounds like a loose panel or something. I think it's coming from this service duct over here.
RIKER: Here's your loose panel.
LAFORGE: Hey, pooch. hey, pooch, come on out of there. Come on. Come on. Hey, pooch, what are you doing in there?
WORF: Commander, the shuttlecraft is gone. There is no one on board.
CRUSHER: Commander?
RIKER: What is it?
CRUSHER: Cellular residue. I believe these are the remains of one of our lieutenants.
CRUSHER: All of the blood traces I found match those of Lieutenant Aquiel Uhnari. I'll assume those are her remains but I'll need to take the deck plate back to Sickbay just to be sure.
RIKER: It would take a powerful weapon to do that.
CRUSHER: I'll have a better idea once I've analyzed the deck plate.
RIKER: If that is Uhnari, where's Rocha?
CRUSHER: The station's shuttle's gone. Maybe he took it.
RIKER: Before Uhnari died or after?
WORF: We're ready, Commander.
RIKER: Did you have any luck downloading the station logs?
LAFORGE: Not yet. I can't get past these security lock-outs, and I think I know why. All encrypted subspace messages are sent through this channel. Take a look at this signal notation.
RIKER: It's out of sequence.
LAFORGE: Looks like somebody tried to by pass the access protocols and break into the coded messages. It caused the security lockouts to freeze right up.
RIKER: Are there any messages missing?
LAFORGE: I won't know until I get into the files.
RIKER: Looks like you've made a friend.
LAFORGE: Yeah.
RIKER: We're going to back to the ship. Let me know as soon as you have something.
LAFORGE: I'm going to try accessing the logs from another console.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: The cellular residue is completely fused with to metal of the deck plate. We're trying to micro-vaporize the metal in order to get a clear DNA sample.
PICARD: Do you have any idea what killed her?
CRUSHER: Well this is just a guess, but from the molecular deposition on the plating I'd say it was a high-level phaser blast.
RIKER: Could it have been a Klingon disruptor?
CRUSHER: Possibly.
RIKER: Geordi's found evidence that the encrypted messages have been tampered with, and we are close to Klingon space.
PICARD: There hasn't been a Klingon raid against the Federation for more than seven years. We can't risk a diplomatic incident until we have more evidence.
CRUSHER: And there's still the question of what happened to Lieutenant Rocha.
PICARD: Get Rocha's personnel file from Starfleet Command, and ask Starbase two twelve to help us find that shuttle.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Keep me apprised, Doctor.

[Ready room]
LAFORGE: There are three references to a Commander Morag, a Klingon officer who patrols this section of the border. Apparently he would pass the station every few days and harass them.
PICARD: Perhaps this Morag was the one who was interested in obtaining the encrypted messages.
LAFORGE: Could be. She didn't say. But I do have several more days of logs left to watch. I'm hoping to learn more.
PICARD: Very well. In the meantime, I'll speak with the Klingon Governor about Commander Morag.

[Relay Station ops]
WORF: Commander, there are DNA traces here. Klingon.
RIKER: So Klingons did board the station?
WORF: Yes, but I only found DNA from one Klingon so far. I will continue to scan.

[Aquiel's quarters]
LAFORGE: How could she read this stuff?
RIKER: How's it going?
LAFORGE: I've managed to access all of Lieutenant Uhnari's logs. I'm still looking for Lieutenant Rocha's. Whatever happened to the encrypted messages had a cascade effect on the whole storage system. I can't find his files anywhere. I'm running a level three diagnostic now.
RIKER: Maybe Rocha didn't make the official logs. Uhnari could have been responsible for them.
LAFORGE: I don't think so. Aquiel was the junior officer here.
RIKER: Aquiel?
LAFORGE: Lieutenant Uhnari. I've been up all night watching her personal logs. I guess I'm starting to feel like I know her.
RIKER: What was she like?
LAFORGE: Well she was Hahliian. She had one sister named Shiana, she drank muskan seed punch. She had a quirky sense of humor. She liked to sing. She had questionable taste in literature.
PICARD: Enterprise to Commander Riker.
RIKER: Riker here.
PICARD: The Klingon ship Qu'Vat has arrived with Governor Torak. Please report to the Observation lounge.
RIKER: We're on our way.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Rocha's file is spotless. Two decorations for valor, three outstanding evaluations from his previous commanders. Doesn't sound like the same man that Lieutenant Uhnari described.
PICARD: What did you found out about Uhnari?
RIKER: I checked into her record, too. Her last posting was on Deriben Five. I spoke to her commanding officer there. He said she was argumentative, quick to take offense. He also told me he transferred her to that relay station because she was hampering their efforts. To be honest, I'm having trouble believing her story, sir.
PICARD: Why?
RIKER: I sent Worf to check the weapons locker on the relay station. There's a phaser missing.
PICARD: You think that she lied?
RIKER: Lied, conveniently forgot, I'm not sure. I think it's something we have to consider.
PICARD: As of now, we don't have sufficient evidence one way or the other. I want you to examine her shuttle. You might find something there which will shed some light on her story.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Aquiel's shuttlecraft]
WORF: Commander. It is set to kill.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Geordi, wait a second. Thank you, Mister Worf.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: This is off the record. I'm saying this as a friend, not your superior officer. I think it would be best if you weren't so personally involved with Aquiel right now. There's a lot about her we don't know.
LAFORGE: And there's a lot about her that I do know, and if she's innocent I want to help her prove it.
RIKER: I think you've let your personal feelings cloud your judgment.
LAFORGE: I'm not the one making judgments.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: All right. Initiate the resonance frequency burst.
CRUSHER: I'm starting to get a stable DNA scan. This is odd. The nucleotide sequences are starting to fluctuate. The DNA is becoming mobile. Let's try another frequency burst, but increase the resonance level by twenty percent.

[La Forge's quarters]
RIKER: Aquiel and Morag will be transferred to a secure medical facility at Starbase twelve. Maybe we'll know more by the time we get there.
LAFORGE: Yeah, right.
RIKER: It could be Morag. We don't know for sure.
LAFORGE: Sure.
RIKER: Get some rest. You've had a rough couple of days.
LAFORGE: Thanks.
LAFORGE: Computer, display the Engineering duty roster for the next three days.
LAFORGE: Maura, come on, not now. Maura, I said not now. Come on, give me a break here. Go lay down!
LAFORGE: Maura?

[Corridor]
WORF: The man acted dishonorably. He is a traitor.
CRUSHER: He risked his life to get here. He spent two weeks alone in a scout ship.
WORF: That does not excuse his original actions.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, we are being hailed.
PICARD: On screen.
TROI: I am Major Rakal of the Tal Shiar.
PICARD: I am Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise.
TROI: How can we be of help?
PICARD: A Corvallen freighter has been destroyed not far from here. We have detected the residual effects of disruptor fire. Can you shed any light on this?
TROI: A regrettable incident, Captain. The freighter was fired upon by the former Commander of this vessel. I have now taken control, and I assure you there will be no more attacks.
PICARD: Still, there was a considerable loss of life.
TROI: Captain, we do not want to exaggerate this incident. You and I can discuss it calmly. We can diffuse it before it becomes inflated.
PICARD: I agree.
TROI: I will come onto your ship. Please, lower your shields and prepare to beam me aboard.
PICARD: Very well. Mister Worf, lock onto Major Rakal. Transport on my command.
WORF: Aye, sir.
TROI: Thank you.
RIKER: What's she doing on that ship?
PICARD: I don't know, Number One, but she needs our help to get back. Mister Worf, keep your lock on her no matter what happens.
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Lower shields.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Worf, now.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: Counselor are you all right?
TROI: Yes.
LAFORGE: Let's get you to Sickbay.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: That about does it. How does it feel to have your own face back?
TROI: Just right. Thank you.
PICARD: The men you helped rescue are safe. Proconsul M'ret is deeply grateful for your help.
TROI: The thanks should go to N'Vek. He sacrificed himself to save them, and me.
PICARD: Thanks to the two of you, the way has been paved for further rescue operations. N'Vek's efforts, and his sacrifice, were not in vain.

[Bridge]
WORF: Can I help you, Mister Picard?
PICARD: Mister Worf.
WORF: This is not for me. You should take it to Commander La Forge in Engineering.
PICARD: What's happened?
WORF: Is something wrong?
PICARD: I'm not sure. Mister Worf, what is my rank and position?
WORF: You are a Lieutenant junior grade, Assistant Astrophysics officer.
DATA: Are you feeling all right?
PICARD: Who's the captain of this ship?
DATA: Captain Thomas Halloway. Perhaps I should escort you to Sickbay.
PICARD: No. I can find my own way there. Thank you, Commander.

[Doctor's office]
PICARD: Beverly, something's happened to me. I'm not sure
Q: Vell, vell, vell. Vhat seems to be de trouble, Lieutenant Picard?
PICARD: Q, what have you done?
Q: I've done exactly as I promised. I've returned you to the present.
PICARD: But this is not the present I remember. You said nothing would change.
Q: Nothing has changed, Jean-Luc, except for you. But then again, that's what you wanted, wasn't it? To change the man you were in your youth? Well, you did it. This is the man you are today. And You should be happy. You have a real heart beating in your chest, and you get to live out the rest of your life in safety, running tests, making analyzes, and carrying reports to your superiors.

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Excuse me, am I interrupting?
RIKER: No, not at all. Have a seat.
PICARD: Thank you. I'd like to talk to you for a moment about my future on the Enterprise.
RIKER: Of course, Lieutenant. Jean-Luc, isn't it?
TROI: Maybe I should go.
PICARD: No, please, Counselor, I would very much like to hear your thoughts. First of all, and I would like you to be absolutely straightforward with me. How would you evaluate me as an officer?
TROI: Well, er, your performance records have always been good. You're thorough, dedicated.
RIKER: Reliable, steady, punctual.
PICARD: I see. What would you say if I told you that I believed that I was capable of being very much more.
RIKER: Perhaps we should discuss this at your next evaluation.
PICARD: I would appreciate it if we could discuss it now. You see, I feel that I would like to move beyond astrophysics to Engineering or Security, something that might even lead to Command.
RIKER: Frankly, Lieutenant, I don't think that's realistic.
PICARD: Why?
TROI: I really don't think this is the place to be discussing this.
PICARD: Please. This is important to me. I believe that I can do more.
TROI: Hasn't that been the problem all along? Throughout your career you've had lofty goals, but you've never been willing to do what's necessary to attain them.
PICARD: Would that be your evaluation as well, Commander?
RIKER: I think I have to agree with the Counselor. If you want to get ahead, you have to take chances, stand out in a crowd, get noticed.
PICARD: I see.
RIKER: Now, we don't want to lose you. You're a very good officer.
PICARD: Just not one who stands out.
RIKER: Why don't I talk to Commander La Forge in Engineering and we'll see what we can do.
PICARD: But, Command?
RIKER: Well, we'll see.
DATA: Senior officers, please report to the Captain's Ready room.
RIKER: Acknowledged.
TROI: We should talk about this later.
PICARD: All right, Q, that's enough. You've made your point. Q?
LAFORGE: La Forge to Lieutenant Picard. I'm still waiting for that statistical analysis.
PICARD: I'm on my way, sir.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Main Engineering. Are you having a good laugh now, Q? Does it amuse you to think of me living out the rest of my life as a dreary man in a tedious job?

[Limbo]
Q: I gave you something most mortals never experience. A second chance at life. And now all you can do is complain?
PICARD: I can't live out my days as that person. That man is bereft of passion and imagination. That is not who I am.
Q: Au contraire, he's the person you wanted to be. One who was less arrogant, and undiskiplined as a youth. One who was less like me. The Jean-Luc Picard you wanted to be, the one who did not fight the Nausicaan, had quite a different career from the one you remember. That Picard never had a brush with death, never came face to face with his own mortality, never realized how fragile life is or how important each moment must be. So his life never came into focus. He drifted for much of his career, with no plan or agenda, going from one assignment to the next, never seizing the opportunities that presented themselves. He never lead the away team on Milika Three to save the ambassador, or take charge of the Stargazer's Bridge when its Captain was killed. And no one ever offered him a command. He learned to play it safe. And he never, ever got noticed by anyone.
PICARD: You're right, Q. You gave me the chance to change and I took the opportunity. But I admit now, it was a mistake.
Q: Are you asking me for something, Jean-Luc?
PICARD: Give me a chance to put things back the way they were before.
Q: Before you died in Sickbay. Is that what you want?
PICARD: I would rather die as the man I was than live the life I just saw.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: His vital signs are stable. Captain. Jean-Luc. You've been injured, but I think you're going to be all right.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: I still don't know what to make of it. Was it a dream? Was it one of Q's elaborate tricks?
RIKER: A lot of people near death have talked about strange experiences, but I've never heard one so detailed.
PICARD: And, you know, there's still a part of me that cannot accept that Q would give me a second chance, or that he would demonstrate so much compassion. And if it was Q, I owe him a debt of gratitude.
RIKER: In what sense? It sounds like he put you through hell.
PICARD: There are many parts of my youth that I'm not proud of. There were loose threads, untidy parts of me that I would like to remove. But when I pulled on one of those threads it unraveled the tapestry of my life.
RIKER: I was just trying to imagine a hell-bent for leather young officer insulting a Nausicaan twice his size. I wish I'd had a chance to know that Jean-Luc Picard.
PICARD: Oh, well, to tell the truth, that wasn't the first run-in I'd had with a couple of surly Nausicaans.
RIKER: Really?
PICARD: Oh, yes. During my sophomore year, I was assigned to training on Morikin Seven. Well, there was a Nausicaan outpost on one of the outlying asteroids, and one day

[Promenade]
CRUSHER: I should be through with the water contaminant analysis in a few hours. Then I'm going to check out one of the holosuites. They have got a relaxation program here, Jean-Luc, from Alture Seven. Listen to this. First they bath you in a protein bath. Then a cloud of chromal vapor carries you into a meditation chamber. You should try it.
PICARD: Well, I'll be too busy discussing the finer points of water management with ten Bajoran bureaucrats. And they won't be carrying me on a cloud of chromal vapor. Ops.

[Replimat]
WORF: What is this?
LAFORGE: It's pasta al fiorella. One of my favorites. Don't worry, you'll love it. You know, I really want to take a look at those Ktarian antiques. I understand they've got a twenty first century plasma coil in almost perfect condition. I'll have to talk to Chief O'Brien about these replicators. Worf, I don't see how you can eat that stuff. It tastes like liquid polymer.
WORF: Delicious.
LAFORGE: You know, I think I'm going to try that kiosk on the other side of the promenade. It looked like they had some real food.

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander, I am reading a minor power drain in the starboard EPS conduit.
RIKER: What's causing it?
DATA: The problem's originating in Sickbay. There has been an unauthorized access into the computer's bio-imaging systems.
RIKER: You'd better check it out.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: Ensign Lopez. This duty roster is unacceptable. The assignments should be listed in order of priority. Prepare it again. I will expect it no later than oh nine hundred hours. Dismissed.
RIKER: Worf, we need to get your rendezvous schedule to Commander Rudman on board the Merrimac as soon as you
WORF: I am well aware of your request, Commander.
RIKER: Lieutenant, are you all right?
WORF: Yes, sir. I am fine. I will send your schedule, sir. Excuse me.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Enter.
TROI: Did the table do something wrong?
WORF: No.
TROI: I'm glad you weren't that hard on Ensign Lopez.
WORF: He made a mistake. The duty roster was inaccurate.
TROI: Would you like to talk about what's bothering you or would you like to break some more furniture?
WORF: Today on the Promenade, a Yridian approached me. He knew who I was and tried to sell me information about Mogh.
TROI: Your father?
WORF: He claimed that he's alive and is being held captive in a Romulan prison camp.
TROI: My god. Could it be true?
WORF: A Klingon would never allow himself to be captured. A warrior fights to the death. If my father were alive it would dishonor his sons and their sons for three generations. Even Alexander would bear the burden of guilt.
TROI: So, you're willing to ignore the possibility because you're concerned about dishonor?
WORF: My father is dead. That Yridian is selling lies!
TROI: If you're so sure about that, why are you still so upset? Worf, you can't deny the possibility just because you don't want it to be true. If you want to talk about this, you know where to find me.

[Ten Forward]
WORF: Wait. What is it, Commander?
DATA: I am sorry to bother you, but I have a question of a personal nature. Do you have a moment?
WORF: A moment.
DATA: I have heard you mention that you once experienced a vision.
WORF: Yes. When I was young my adoptive parents arranged for me to partake in the Rite of MajQa.
DATA: I understand it involves deep meditation in the lava caves of No'Mat. That prolonged exposure to the heat induces a hallucinatory effect.
WORF: Why are you asking me about this?
DATA: I have recently had an unusual experience, which might be described as a vision.
WORF: What happened?
DATA: An accident in Engineering shut down my cognitive functions for a short period of time, yet I seemed to remain conscious. I saw my father.
WORF: You are very fortunate. That is a powerful vision.
DATA: If it was a vision, I do not know how to proceed.
WORF: You must find its meaning. If it has anything to do with your father, you must learn all you can about it. In the Klingon MajQa ritual, there is nothing more important than receiving a revelation about your father. Your father is part of you, always. Learning about him teaches you about yourself. That is why no matter where he is or what he has done, you must find him.
DATA: But I am not looking for my father.
WORF: Yes, of course. Do not stop until you have the answer.
DATA: Thank you, Worf.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
PICARD: Yes, Mister Data?
DATA: I am sorry to disturb you, sir.
PICARD: Not at all. I'm here studying the intricacies of Bajoran aqueduct management. I would welcome an interruption. Please, sit down.
DATA: I require your advice. I have come to an impasse regarding my recent unexplained experience.
PICARD: Your vision of Doctor Soong. How is your investigation proceeding?
DATA: I have analyzed over four thousand different religious and philosophical systems, as well as over two hundred psychological schools of thought, in an effort to understand what happened.
PICARD: And what have you found?
DATA: I have been unable to find a single interpretation of the images I saw during the time I was shut down. The hammer, for instance, has several meanings. The Klingon culture views the hammer as a symbol of power. However, the Taqua tribe of Nagor sees it as an icon of hearth and home. The Ferengis view it as a sign of sexual prowess.
PICARD: I'm curious, Mister Data. Why are you looking at all these other cultures?
DATA: The interpretation of visions and other metaphysical experiences are almost always culturally derived, and I have no culture of my own.
PICARD: Yes, you do. You're a culture of one, which is no less valid than a culture of one billion. Perhaps the key to understanding your experience is to stop looking into other sources for a meaning. When we look at Michaelangelo's David or Symnay's Tomb and we don't ask what does this mean to other people. The real question is, what does it mean to us? Explore this image, Data. Let it excite your imagination. Focus on it. See where it leads you. Let it inspire you.
DATA: I believe I understand, sir. Thank you.
PICARD: Good luck, Mister Data.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Come in.
LAFORGE: Data, what are you doing? We were supposed to meet at
LAFORGE: Data, what are you doing?
DATA: I am painting.
LAFORGE: I can see that. How long have you been at this?
DATA: I have created twenty three individual illustrations in the past six hours, twenty seven minutes. I believe you could say I have been inspired.
LAFORGE: I'll say.
DATA: I have done as Captain Picard suggested. I have tried to explore the images.
LAFORGE: Has it helped?
DATA: I am not certain. I began by painting the image of the blacksmith. Then I painted the corridor. After that, the anvil, the hammer, and Doctor Soong's face. The thought then occurred to me that I should paint smoke.
LAFORGE: Smoke? Why smoke?
DATA: I cannot explain it. It is not an image I saw during my vision.
LAFORGE: Well, you have the smoke coming out of a bucket of water. Blacksmiths used to use water to cool the metal. Maybe that's why you painted it.
DATA: Perhaps. After I painted the smoke, it then occurred to me to paint a bird's wing. I then drew an entire bird. A flock of birds flying in formation. An individual feather. If the image of a bird is related to my vision, I do not understand how. I am left with more of a mystery than ever. Geordi, I would like to recreate the experiment which caused my initial shut down.
LAFORGE: What for?
DATA: I do not know how much longer my vision would have continued had I not been reactivated.
LAFORGE: Data, that plasma shock almost fused your neural net. I don't think it's such a good idea to try that again.
DATA: I am aware of the risks involved. But I can think of no other way to investigate my experience. Will you help?
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yeah, sure. I'll go find Doctor Bashir.
DATA: I will prepare the power transfer.

[Corridor]
DATA: The bird did not appear in my original experience. This vision is different.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Still no sign of them on long range scanners.
PICARD: Contact DS9. Find out what they know about this Yridian trader.
RIKER: Hopefully he filed a flight plan before he left the station.
PICARD: That's the only chance we have of finding Worf.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What is it, Number One?
RIKER: We've just received the Yridian's flight plan from Deep Space Nine.
LAFORGE: He gets around. He's been to three different systems in this past week. He could have left Worf at any of them.
PICARD: Are any of these systems near Romulan space?
LAFORGE: Two of them. The Nequencia and the Carraya systems.
PICARD: Let's head for the closer one.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER: It's good to see you. He seems fine. We're giving everyone a thorough checkups in Sickbay.
PICARD: Thank you, Doctor.
PICARD: Welcome home, Mister Worf.
WORF: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: Picard to Bridge. Signal the Romulan ship that the last group is on board.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: You found what you were looking for, Mister Worf?
WORF: No, sir. There was no prison camp. Those young people are survivors of a vessel that crashed in the Carraya system four years ago. No one survived Khitomer.
PICARD: I understand.

[Turbolift]
DATA: Captain.
PICARD: Bridge.
DATA: It has been quite a day, has it not?
PICARD: Yes, it has.
DATA: However, a change of routine is often invigorating and can be a welcome diversion after a long assignment.
PICARD: Exactly.
DATA: I understand that Arkaria has some very interesting weather patterns.
PICARD: Mister Data, are you all right?
DATA: Yes, sir. I am attempting to fill a silent moment with non-relevant conversation.
PICARD: Small talk.
DATA: Yes, sir. I have found that humans often use small talk during awkward moments. Therefore, I have written a new subroutine for that purpose. How did I do?
PICARD: Perhaps it was a little too non-relevant. But if you really are interested in small talk, then you should keep your eye on Commander Hutchinson at the reception this afternoon. He's a master.
DATA: Thank you, sir. I will.

[Arkaria base]
TROI: They haven't tried to communicate with the outside.
RIKER: No demands, no political statements, no theft. They must want something.
TROI: Orton is not as calm as he looks. He's very agitated and nervous, as if something's gone wrong.
DATA: It is possible that Geordi upset their timetable when he saw the hidden weapons.
RIKER: Orton may be improvising. Maybe he didn't plan to take us hostage so early and now he doesn't know what to do.
DATA: If they do not have a plan for this contingency, we may have the initiative.
RIKER: Maybe, but we need to figure out how to use it. How is he?
CRUSHER: There's no permanent damage. I've adjusted the optical transducer in his visor to block some of the pain receptors in his brain. It's only partially effective. I need to get him to a medical facility.
RIKER: I doubt if they'll agree to that. But maybe if we tell them Geordi's dying, they would give us access to a medical kit. We might be able to use some of the tools to make a weapon.
DATA: Perhaps we can use the visor as a weapon. If the optical transducer were modified, we might be able to generate a hypersonic pulse.
CRUSHER: A hypersonic pulse would overload the audio receptors of everyone in the room. It would cause immediate unconsciousness.
RIKER: Can you make the adjustments on the visor by yourself? It'll look suspicious if you're both working on it.
CRUSHER: I'll try. I might need Geordi to help me through some of it.
RIKER: All right. Be as casual as you can. Let us know when you're ready.

[Worf's quarters]
PICARD: Moving trilithium resin requires very specific equipment. You can't simply improvise something.

[Worf's quarters]
PICARD: I would rather destroy the ship than allow that material to fall into the hands of terrorists.

[Worf's quarters]
PICARD: Trilithium resin is a highly toxic waste product produced by our engines.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: If you've been planning this so long, you must have a way of getting off the Enterprise and leaving this system. I think you have a ship coming for you. I plan to be on it.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: I'm sorry to hear that. I'll send your regrets.

[Arkaria base]
TROI: I thought you were just going to talk to him.
RIKER: I did. He just didn't like what I had to say.
DATA: That was a perimeter warning from the Remmler Array. A small ship is approaching. I believe Mister Orton has dropped his defense shields.
RIKER: This must be the sign they were waiting for. Mister Data, you will be the only one unaffected by the hypersonic burst. As soon as every else is unconscious, I need you to get to the computer panel and stop that ship somehow.
DATA: I will try, sir.
CRUSHER: Now.

[Arkaria base]
DATA: Are you all right, Captain?

[Ten Forward]
PICARD: Yes, Mister Data.
DATA: Sir, an unidentified

[Arkaria base]
DATA: Scout ship has just beamed someone off the Enterprise.

[Ten Forward]
DATA: Do you know anything about it?
PICARD: I know they won't get very far.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Hold still. You have got a nasty little cut here.
PICARD: Any luck?
TROI: I'm sorry, Captain. I don't know what could have happened to it.
CRUSHER: Hold still. I can't heal this cleanly if you don't stop fidgeting.
RIKER: I've had three security teams search deck seven. They couldn't find anything.
CRUSHER: There.
WORF: I found it. Someone put it in a maintenance locker.
PICARD: Thank you.
WORF: Captain, you keep a saddle on board?
RIKER: Mister Worf, I'm surprised at you.
CRUSHER: Anyone who is an experienced rider naturally has his own saddle.
TROI: It's perfectly normal.
PICARD: Actually, it came in handy. I only wish I'd had the opportunity to use it on a horse.
WORF: Of course.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Good evening, Mister Data.
DATA: Actually, good morning, sir. Ship status is
PICARD: No need to report. I'm just here to do some work on my own.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: I'd like to talk to Doctor Mowray at his archeological site on Landris Two. Could you put it through to my Ready room?
DATA: I'm sorry, sir, but Stellar Cartography has requested a communications blackout while they run an experiment.
PICARD: How long will it be?
DATA: Another three hours twenty two minutes, sir. I can override it if necessary.
PICARD: No, it's not important.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Captain, we'll be arriving at the Borgolis Nebula in three hours.
PICARD: Yes. I understand it has unusual radioactive emissions, and I'm sure that Stellar Sciences will find it a most interesting study.
RIKER: Commander Daren has already requested extra time on the main sensor array.
PICARD: Well, you have the Bridge, Number One.
DATA: Captain, I would like to remind you of our concert this evening in Ten Forward. We will perform Chopin's Trio in G Minor.
PICARD: I'll be there.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: And so the upshot is that we'll be close enough for you to slip away for a few days and see Wesley.
CRUSHER: Oh, that's wonderful. Thank you, Jean-Luc. This is delicious. What is it?
PICARD: It's an herbal tea blend. I, er, found it in the replicator files. Have you met any of the new crewmembers who came aboard at Starbase two eighteen?
CRUSHER: In fact, I have a new nurse, Beck. He's an obstetrics specialist.
PICARD: I met the new head of Stellar Sciences last night. Lieutenant Commander Daren.
CRUSHER: Yes. Nella Daren. She came into Sickbay for her physical last week. I like her. Very forthright.
PICARD: Did you know it is now possible to predict the configuration of a star system which won't be formed for another two million years?
CRUSHER: Really? No, I didn't.
PICARD: It's really quite intriguing. The whole thing is made possible by a complex mathematical construct based on fractal particle motion. But that's only the foundation. The modeling itself is done by gravimetric wave input.
CRUSHER: I see.
PICARD: Well, I know this is all pretty dry stuff. Stellar cartography isn't everybody's cup of tea.
CRUSHER: I'm sure it's really quite fascinating.
PICARD: You know, we'd should be getting along to Ten Forward. We're going to be late for the concert.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Number One, my fencing partner's canceled for this afternoon. I was wondering if you wanted to join me?
RIKER: Fencing? I'm really not very good.
PICARD: It doesn't matter so as long as you enjoy it.
RIKER: Why not?
PICARD: Good. Excellent. Fourteen hundred hours, then.

[Engineering]
DATA: Is there a problem, Geordi?
LAFORGE: I hear music.
DATA: Music? I do not hear anything.
LAFORGE: Are you sure? I know I heard something. Oh, it's stopped.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Sit down, Counselor. I want to talk to you about a matter of protocol. I know there are no Starfleet regulations about a Captain becoming involved with a fellow officer, but
TROI: You would like my opinion about you and Commander Daren.
PICARD: It's that obvious?
TROI: In a way that pleases people who care about your happiness, yes, it is.
PICARD: But I have to be concerned about more than my own happiness.
TROI: And you think that your feelings toward Nella could change the way you function as Captain.
PICARD: Yes. Relationships with co-workers can be fraught with consequences.
TROI: That's true. But cutting yourself off from your feelings can carry consequences that are just as serious.
PICARD: You seem I've always believed that becoming involved with someone under my command would compromise my objectivity. And yet.
TROI: Captain, are you asking my permission?
PICARD: If I were, would you give it?
TROI: Yes.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: May I have a minute?
PICARD: Yes, of course. Come in, Number One.
RIKER: It's about Lieutenant Commander Daren. As a department head, she comes to me for systems allocation, personnel transfers, things like that. I'm beginning to feel uncomfortable with her requests.
PICARD: Because of her relationship with me?
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Are her requests unusual?
RIKER: No.
PICARD: Would you say that she's just trying to do her job?
RIKER: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Then let her do it, and feel free to do yours. Ship's resources are your responsibility. I've always had absolute confidence in your judgment.
RIKER: Thank you, sir.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Lieutenant Marquez has already set up on the surface. Apparently the storm is still gaining speed. He's estimating

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Worf, how long before the storm reaches the outposts?
WORF: Seventeen minutes.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge.
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister La Forge.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: The ionization from the storm is interfering with the transporters, Captain. I'm compensating, but it's slowing things down a bit.
PICARD: Keep at it, Mister La Forge.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Crusher to Bridge.
PICARD: Go ahead, Doctor.

[Transporter room]
CRUSHER: We just brought aboard the last of the infirmary patients and they're on their way to Sickbay. But we still have over

[Planet surface]
PICARD: It is imperative that you hold your position until we finish evacuating the colony. Picard out.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Picard to Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: La Forge here.
PICARD: I want a signal lock on every member of the perimeter teams.
LAFORGE: Captain, the storm's interference won't
PICARD: As soon as the last of the colony is evacuated, I want those perimeter teams out of there. Is that understood?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
WORF: The storm has reached the perimeter.

[Sickbay]
RIKER: I got out with the last of the colonists. If it hadn't been for the perimeter teams, none of us would have made it. We were able to clear out four of the teams, and the interference prevented us from getting two more. I don't know how they could have survived.
PICARD: Which teams are missing?
RIKER: Three and six.
RIKER: The last I knew, Commander Daren was on team six.

[Picard's quarters]
WORF: Bridge to Captain.
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Worf.
WORF: We have found survivors, sir. They are beaming up now.
PICARD: I'm on my way.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, I have completed the spectral evaluation of the outer shell. Our survey of this protostar is complete.
PICARD: Ensign, lay in a course to the next one, three quarters impulse.
RIKER: Riker to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.
RIKER: May I see you in the Observation Lounge, sir?
PICARD: I'll be right there.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Come.
CRUSHER: Good morning. Looks like you've been up for a while.
PICARD: Yes.
CRUSHER: Let's hear it.
PICARD: I had a long talk with Professor Galen last night. He asked me to leave the Enterprise, to join him in an archeological expedition which could last for nearly a year.
CRUSHER: That must be tempting.
PICARD: I couldn't leave the Enterprise. But the offer raised in me certain feelings of regret.
CRUSHER: That you could have been an archeologist and not a starship Captain?
PICARD: No, not really. I'm not sorry for the path I chose. But the Professor did not choose this figure at random. The many voices inside the one. You see, he knows that the past is a very insistent voice inside of me. This gift is meant to remind me of that.
CRUSHER: And the exploration of space? Surely that must count for something.
PICARD: I wouldn't trade it for anything, and I would still make the same choice I made all those years ago. I just wish that I didn't have to say no to him a second time.
CRUSHER: Were you two very close?
PICARD: I had a father, but he was like a father who understood me. And he had his own children but they didn't follow in his footsteps, so I was like the son who understood him.
CRUSHER: And yet you turned your back on him.
PICARD: In a way, I wish he'd never come on board the ship.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: I'd say at least three Yridians boarded the Professor's shuttle.
PICARD: What did they want?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, but it looks like they were trying to download something from his computer.
DATA: When he was attacked, Professor Galen began to protect certain files in his computer memory.
LAFORGE: We were able to partially reconstruct the shuttle's computers, so at least we have some of those files. We found nineteen different blocks of numbers like this one.
PICARD: What do they mean?
DATA: They could mean anything. Unless we can narrow the parameters of the search, it would be almost impossible for the computer to identify the pattern with any accuracy.
LAFORGE: We tried every decryption key on record in case Professor Galen was using some kind of code. We still can't make heads or tails of them.
WORF: Were the Yridians able to get these number blocks?
LAFORGE: At least some of them. It's impossible to say know many.
PICARD: Apparently, the Yridians knew more about the Professor's work than we do. They may have known what these numbers mean.
LAFORGE: If they did, that information died with them.
PICARD: Not necessarily. The Yridians are information dealers. They may have been delivering the number blocks to someone else. Did they send a signal before they were destroyed?
WORF: No, sir. We detected no transmissions.
LAFORGE: And there were no other vessels in the vicinity.
PICARD: Did the shuttle's flight logs show where Galen had been before coming to the Enterprise?
DATA: Yes, sir. The logs indicate Professor Galen visited an unexplored star system, Ruah Four.
PICARD: What's the distance from our present position?
DATA: Four days at warp six, sir.
PICARD: The conference can wait. Set a course for the Ruah system.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Standard orbit, Ensign.
DATA: Ruah Four is a class-M planet. Sixty seven percent of its surface is covered with water. Its landmass contains multiple animal species, including a genus of proto-hominids.
PICARD: Scan for earthworks or monuments that might indicate a previous civilization.
DATA: There is nothing to indicate former occupancy by even a primitive culture, sir.
PICARD: Then what was the foremost archeologist in the Federation doing here? He left the Enterprise in a Vulcan ship for Deep Space Four, and then an Al-Leyan transport to Caere, and then the shuttle to Indri Eight. Mister Data, what do we know about Indri Eight?
DATA: The Indri system was first identified by Federation vessels nearly sixty years ago. The eighth planet is L-class. It is covered by deciduous vegetation, unexplored, with no apparent evidence of civilizations, either present or past. The planet possesses no animal life whatsoever.
PICARD: Number One, we'll proceed to Indri Eight.
RIKER: With all due respect, sir, we've already run into one dead end. Indri Eight doesn't seem much more promising. And we're late for the conference on Atalia Seven.
PICARD: I'm aware of the Federation's timetable, Number One. Professor Galen visited here a few days ago. And he was on his way to Indri Eight when he was killed. There's some connection between these two planets. I'm going to find it.
RIKER: Aye, sir. Ensign, lay in a course for Indri Eight, warp seven.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
TROI: How's it going?
PICARD: I thought if I stared at these number blocks long enough then I would begin to see some kind of pattern. So far, nothing.
TROI: I meant, how's it going with you?
PICARD: If I had gone with him.
TROI: Captain, you can't start thinking like that. You didn't abandon him. You chose not to abandon a life-long career. It was the right decision, and in no way responsible for his death.
PICARD: I realize that.
TROI: I know how much the Professor meant to you and how much you want to find out what happened, but staring at these numbers isn't going to bring him back. The conference on Atalia Seven has been scheduled for six months. Starfleet is relying on your mediation efforts to
PICARD: Counselor, this is not simply a case of me taking the Enterprise and its crew on some wild goose chase to purge myself of guilt and remorse. I will not let Galen's death to be in vain. Now, if that means inconveniencing a few squabbling delegates for a few days, then so be it. I will take the full responsibility.
TROI: Captain.

[Bridge]
WORF: We are about to enter the Indri system, sir.
RIKER: Riker to Picard. We are approaching Indri Eight.
PICARD: On my way.
DATA: Sensors are picking up severe atmospheric fluctuations on the planet.
RIKER: Assume a high orbit.
PICARD: On screen, Mister Worf.
WORF: Some kind of plasma reaction is consuming the lower atmosphere.
PICARD: Can we stop it?
WORF: No, sir. The reaction is global.
DATA: All life on the planet is being destroyed, sir.
RIKER: Why would anyone want to destroy all the life on an uninhabited, neutral planet with no strategic importance whatsoever?
PICARD: All the life. Perhaps the Professor's number blocks had something to do with organic matter.
DATA: If we narrow the search parameters to the biological database, it might increase the chances of the computer finding a match.
PICARD: I'll be in the lab.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: This is not a natural design. Captain. This is part of an algorithm, coded at the molecular level.
PICARD: An algorithm? Are you saying that these DNA fragments are elements in some kind of computer program?
LAFORGE: I know how it sounds, but there's no way this could be a random formation. This is definitely part of a program.
CRUSHER: This fragment has been part of every DNA strand on Earth since life began there, and the other fragments are just as old. Someone must have written this program over four billion years ago.
PICARD: So, four billion years ago someone scattered this genetic material into the primordial soup of at least nineteen different planets across the galaxy?
DATA: The genetic information must have been incorporated into the earliest lifeforms on these planets, and then passed down through each generation.
CRUSHER: But why would anyone do this in the first place?
PICARD: And what was this program designed to do?
LAFORGE: Well, we couldn't know that until we assembled the entire program and then ran it. We've tried all the DNA material in the Federation computer, but we haven't been able to come up with any with compatible protein configurations.
PICARD: Then they must be from worlds outside the Federation. Mister Data, how many people on the Enterprise are from non-Federation planets?
DATA: Seventeen, sir.
PICARD: You know, this may be a long shot, but we should check each one of these seventeen people to see if they have the correct protein configurations.
CRUSHER: I'll begin collecting DNA samples now.
LAFORGE: You know, Captain, I've been thinking. Somebody else must know about this program. I bet one of the missing fragments was on Indri Eight. That's why it was destroyed.
PICARD: To keep us from finding that piece of the puzzle. It's four billion years old. A computer program from a highly advanced civilization, and it's hidden in the very fabric of life itself. Whatever information this program contains could be the most profound discovery of our time. Or the most dangerous. And the Professor knew that.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: They all came up negative.
PICARD: Well I have been through every page of the Professor's published works, looking for some clue as to where to go next. So far, nothing.
CRUSHER: Maybe we've been at this too long. Why don't we both get some sleep and start again tomorrow morning.
PICARD: I was in the neighborhood. When I asked the Professor why he went all the way to Kurl, he said, I was in the neighborhood. Doing what?
CRUSHER: Collecting DNA samples.
PICARD: There's only one planet in the Kurlan system capable of supporting life. Loren Three.
CRUSHER: No. There is no Loren Three sample from the data downloaded from the Professor's shuttle. If he did have one it must have been taken by the Yridians when they attacked.
PICARD: Mister Data, set course for Loren Three, maximum warp.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: What the hell? Computer, perform a level three diagnostic on the primary defensive systems. La Forge to Captain Picard.
PICARD: What is it, Geordi?
LAFORGE: You might want to come down here. I found something that I think you should see.

[Laboratory]
DATA: The computer has completed its analysis.
CRUSHER: The computer was able to extrapolate this geometric pattern based on the distribution of the fragments.
CRUSHER: Computer, highlight the section of the missing pattern. The missing DNA fragment should be in this system.
DATA: The star is in sector two one four five nine. The Rahm Izad system.

[Transporter room]
RIKER: Captain, we've located a planet that may still support life. We'll know in a minute.
PICARD: Any sign of the Cardassians?
RIKER: Not yet. We don't know how long it'll stay that way.
PICARD: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
DATA: I am reading a small pocket of vegetative life. A primitive lichen growing in a fossilized seabed.
RIKER: Transporter room one. I am programming the coordinates. Stand by.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: It's a shame Professor Galen didn't live to see the end result of his search.
PICARD: I can't think of anyone who would have appreciated it more.
CRUSHER: If it hadn't been for you, his dream to solve that puzzle would never have been realized. You left him a wonderful legacy.
PICARD: Yes, but it would've been a more fitting legacy if the message had not fallen on such deaf ears.
CRUSHER: You never know. Well, I have to get this day started.
PICARD: Both of us.
CRUSHER: See you this afternoon.
RIKER: Riker to Captain Picard.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Incoming transmission from the Romulan command ship.
PICARD: Put it through.
RIKER: Acknowledged.

[Corridor]
RIKER: You control my every move, tell me what to say, what to think. What to eat, what to say. What to think, what to eat. Then when I show a glimmer of independent thought, you strap me down, inject me with drugs, call it a treatment. I may be surrounded by insanity, but I am not insane.
RIKER: Excuse me.

[Ready room]
RIKER: Tilonus Four? Didn't their government just collapse?
PICARD: It's in a state of total anarchy. When the Prime Minister was assassinated, a Federation research team was on the planet. It's believed that they were forced into hiding. Your mission will be to locate and to evacuate them.
RIKER: Can't they go to local authorities?
PICARD: There are no local authorities. The government is splintered. It seems that there are various factions vying for power. They're desperate for weapons or technology of any kind. Apparently, some of the factions have resorted to torture to gather their information. Well, a Starfleet research team would be a prime target.
RIKER: Then I'll have to go down there alone, undercover.
PICARD: Agreed. Mister Worf is ready to give you a detailed briefing on Tilonian culture.
RIKER: Well, I guess I'll have to back out of Beverly's play after all.
PICARD: Oh no, no, there'll be plenty of time for that. We don't arriving at Tilonus for another five days. And besides, if you back out, she'll come after me to play the part.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: This is the last known location of the research team. They had occupied a small building in the south-west quarter of the city. You will begin your search there.
RIKER: The south-west quarter covers over two hundred square kilometers. That's a lot of land for one man to cover. I guess I'd better pack an extra pair of boots.
WORF: This apparel will allow you to pass as a common merchant. This Tilonian pendant is equipped with a communicator circuit.
RIKER: It doesn't really match the outfit.
WORF: I suggest you pay closer attention, Commander. Your life will be at stake. Do you understand what I am saying?
RIKER: Of course I do.
WORF: Because you will be posing as a merchant, you will need to know how to use the nisroh for the traditional bartering ceremony.
WORF: You will be judged on your prowess with the blade.
WORF: I am sorry, Commander! I did not intend
RIKER: It's okay. I guess I really wasn't paying attention. I'd better go to Sickbay. We'll continue this later.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: I've been on a lot of missions, seen a lot of people injured, but I've never been affected by anything like this. He was looking right at me.
TROI: And that was disturbing to you.
RIKER: It was as if he was blaming me for something. This wasn't the only incident. The last several days, I've felt like everybody's staring at me or talking about me. It's as if I was in Frame of Mind.
TROI: Frame of Mind?
RIKER: Beverly's play. Ever since I began rehearsing for the role, I've been uneasy and restless.
TROI: You're probably drawing on feelings that you're not used to expressing.
RIKER: Right. The play is full of disturbing images. People losing their minds, being tortured by doctors. I can't get it out of my mind.
TROI: Sometimes it's healthy to explore the darker sides of the psyche. Jung called it owning your own shadow. This could be a sign that you're a real actor. This is becoming more than just a role to you.
RIKER: Maybe you're right.
TROI: Don't be afraid of your darker side. Have fun with it.
RIKER: Who was that? You just missed him. Is there a new Lieutenant on board?
TROI: I'm not sure. Do you want me to check the personnel logs?
RIKER: No, I'll check them tomorrow. I'm going to bed early. The performance is tomorrow night. I want to be up for it.
TROI: I'm looking forward to it. Break a leg.
RIKER: I'll try not to take you literally.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: I was there, in Ward forty seven, just like in the play. Everyone thought that I was insane, that I'd actually killed someone. But it was all real.
CRUSHER: Deanna mentioned that you went to bed early because you were feeling a little anxious about the play, but I had no idea. You said that in your dream, we performed the play. How'd it go?
RIKER: It was a smash. We got a standing ovation.
CRUSHER: Let's hope it goes that well tonight. Well, we have got one hour before curtain. How are you feeling?
RIKER: I feel like an actor.
CRUSHER: Well, you're certainly beginning to look the part.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: There's nothing wrong with you neurologically, and I can't find anything that could cause the hallucinations. But your heart rate is way up and your blood pressure's way above normal. And you're physically exhausted.
RIKER: This is not a case of simple fatigue.
CRUSHER: Will, you know that when you're under conditions of extreme stress the mind can manufacture all kinds of things.
RIKER: Drugs. They injected me with me drugs. See if the drug's in my system.
CRUSHER: Nothing.
RIKER: In that dream they gave me drugs. Didn't anybody at the theater see anything strange happen during the performance?
CRUSHER: No, nobody. Get some rest, Will. The play is over. Don't give it another thought.
RIKER: Right.

[Turbolift]
RIKER: It's not real. It's not real.

[Asylum cell]
RIKER: No! Let me out of here! Let me out of here! Help me! Help me.

[Asylum common area]
RIKER: It's not real.
CRUSHER: Commander, do you know who I am? Do you know where you are? If you can't answer, just listen. You were on an undercover mission to Tilonus Four. Something happened. We were told that you killed somebody, but we do not believe it's true. We're being blocked at every turn. The hospital Administrator denies you're here at all. We're beginning to think that there's some kind of a conspiracy going on. I had to come in here posing as a health official. Sit tight, Commander. We're going to get you out of here.
RIKER: Not real.

[Asylum cell]
DATA: Commander.
RIKER: Get away from me!
WORF: Commander, you must come with us. You are in danger here.
RIKER: No!
WORF: Silence.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: There's damage to the parietal lobe. It's as if someone's trying to access his long-term memory. He's in a severe state of neural shock. It's going to take him a while to recover.
PICARD: Number One, do you remember what happened? You were abducted during the mission to Tilonus Four. You were put into a psychiatric hospital.
RIKER: It's still bleeding.
CRUSHER: It's minor. Don't worry about it.
WORF: We have been checking on the hospital Administrator.
RIKER: Mister Suna.
PICARD: It appears that he's involved with one of the rival factions. We believe that he is responsible for what happened to you.
RIKER: It still hurts. It's bleeding again. Why? You just healed it.
CRUSHER: Will, try to calm down.
RIKER: This isn't real.
PICARD: What are you doing, Will?
RIKER: If I'm right, you're not really here. This isn't a real phaser. It's all a fantasy, and I'm going to end it, no matter what it takes.
PICARD: But what if it isn't a fantasy? Are you willing to take that chance?
RIKER: You're right, I won't. But I'm going to find out what's real and what's not.
CRUSHER: Will, don't do it!

[Ready room]
PICARD: Evidently, you were abducted two days after beaming to the surface.
RIKER: I remember now. I was in an alley. They attacked me from behind. I tried to fight them off with the nisroh Worf gave me. I managed to get off one of them off me but I think they injected me with some sort of drug.
PICARD: We believe that they were trying to extract strategic information from your memory using a neurosomatic technique.
RIKER: I was in a hospital, then I was back on the Enterprise. I was back at the hospital. I kept shifting from place to place. I couldn't tell what was real.
TROI: Your mind must have created a defense mechanism that helped you resist the neurosomatic process. Your unconscious fastened on to elements of your real life in an attempt to keep you grounded, to keep you sane.
RIKER: The preparation for the mission, the play, those were recent experiences, fresh in my mind.
PICARD: You should get some rest. We can talk some more tomorrow.
RIKER: There is one thing I'd like to do first.

[Theater]
CRUSHER: Are you sure you want to do this by yourself? The stage crew and I were going to do it tomorrow morning.
RIKER: I'm positive. After everything that I've experienced, I don't think I could sleep knowing it was still up.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: All right, come in.
CRUSHER: Guinan? What's wrong?
GUINAN: I need a doctor. Geordi beat me in straight sets today. I think I've developed tennis elbow.
CRUSHER: Well, you'd better go to Sickbay. I think Doctor Selar's on duty.
GUINAN: I don't want to see Doctor Selar. I always see you. I'm very particular about my doctors.
CRUSHER: Well, you'd better get a new one, because I'm not a doctor on this ship anymore.
CRUSHER: Three days on a shuttle to Starbase twenty three, transport back to Earth. I can hear Admiral Brooks now, telling me how I've disgraced Starfleet Medical. Then a leisurely day and a half before the formal inquiry begins and my career ends.
GUINAN: Beverly? My elbow.
CRUSHER: Your elbow. Let me see it. Does this hurt?
GUINAN: Ow! Yes, right there.
CRUSHER: That's tennis elbow, all right. Here, hold your arm like this.
GUINAN: You know, I've never been to a formal inquiry.
CRUSHER: Well I'll see if I can arrange one for you. All you have to do is disobey orders, violate medical ethics, and cause an interstellar incident.
GUINAN: Well I guess that would do it.
CRUSHER: Make a fist.
GUINAN: Do I have to hit you with my fist before you tell me what happened?
CRUSHER: It all started when those scientists came on board. No. It started when I got curious.
GUINAN: Well, there's nothing wrong with that.
CRUSHER: That's why I went to the Altine Conference. I'd heard about a new subspace technology developed by a Ferengi, a Doctor Reyga.
GUINAN: A Ferengi scientist. Hmm.
CRUSHER: His invention was based on metaphasic fields, but his methodology was completely unorthodox.
GUINAN: I like unorthodox.
CRUSHER: Too bad you weren't there. Nobody else would listen to him. They all but jeered him off the stage. But I had read his paper and his work was extraordinary.
GUINAN: So you gathered all these scientists to come hear this Ferengi.
CRUSHER: Yes. I hoped I could be a facilitator. I thought if I invited scientists from various cultures to board the Enterprise, I could sit them and down help them understand the value of his ideas.
GUINAN: Like a scientific diplomat.
CRUSHER: Exactly. So, after persuading the Captain, I had to round up as many scientists as I could from the field of subspace technology.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: So that was my first experience as a scientific diplomat. A complete failure. I don't understand.
GUINAN: No?
CRUSHER: I mean, I've lost patients before.
GUINAN: But this was different.
CRUSHER: Mmm.
GUINAN: You know, when you're a doctor and you have patients, you're in control. But when you send someone out on a mission, all you can do is sit and watch.
CRUSHER: That's what I felt. Helpless.
GUINAN: Anybody would. Don't be too hard on yourself.
CRUSHER: You know, what you say reminds me of something Jean-Luc said to me when I was doing the autopsy on Jo'Bril.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: It was probably the most puzzling autopsy I've ever performed, and the most frustrating, because Jo'Bril's anatomy was unlike any I'd encountered, and I've run into some unusual specimens.
PICARD: How's it going?
CRUSHER: I've never run into a humanoid species like this before. His internal physiology's baffling. He doesn't seem to have any discrete organs, at least not in the traditional sense. Practically every system is equally distributed throughout the body. That kind of physiology should make him incredibly resistant to injury, so whatever killed him must have occurred at the cellular level.
PICARD: Do you have any idea what it was?
CRUSHER: No. Something caused a massive system-wide failure, but I don't know what.
PICARD: Were the solar radiation levels high enough to kill him?
CRUSHER: His exposure to the star's radiation was minimal. It's all very strange. There's no apparent cause of death.
OGAWA: Doctor, here's the result of the tissue scan you asked for.
CRUSHER: That's odd. The rate of cellular decay is extremely low.
PICARD: Beverly, the answers will come.
CRUSHER: Maybe even minimal exposure to the radiation altered the cellular physiology.
PICARD: You know, you've been at this for hours. You might think more clearly if you got a good night's sleep.
CRUSHER: I can't sleep. I want to find out what killed him. I owe that to Doctor Reyga.
PICARD: You're doing it for Doctor Reyga, or yourself?
CRUSHER: What do you mean?
PICARD: You're the loneliest person in the world right now. No one can say anything, no one can do anything that will help. And you think that it will never go away. And you're right, it won't. But you can get used to it. I know it doesn't feel like that now, but you can.
CRUSHER: At the time, I was too preoccupied with my problems to understand what he was saying. I wasn't thinking about the rest of my life. I was trying to make sense of what had happened.

[Ready room]
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I was with him right before he died. He was not suicidal.
PICARD: But by your own admission, Reyga was a difficult man to understand. Isn't it possible that he was simply masking his feelings?
CRUSHER: I don't think so. He was disappointed at the failure of his device and certainly he was upset at Jo'Bril's death, but I never got the sense that he was ready to end his own life. And if that's true, then someone else killed him.
PICARD: Do you have any evidence of that?
CRUSHER: Not yet. But when I finished the autopsy, I hope I'll have it.
PICARD: Beverly. I'm afraid there will be no autopsy. The family has already been contacted. They insist that the body must not be touched until they perform the Ferengi death ritual.
CRUSHER: But there's a question as to the circumstances of his death.
PICARD: To the family that's irrelevant.
CRUSHER: Let me speak with them.
PICARD: Please believe me, they're adamant. We are scheduled to rendezvous with a Ferengi ship in seventeen hours. They will pick up Reyga's body then. I'm sorry, there will be no autopsy.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I cannot just drop this. Don't you see? There may have been a murder.
PICARD: Then you will have to find evidence some way other than an autopsy.

[Morgue]
OGAWA: I don't understand, Doctor. Isn't it pretty clear that Reyga died from a plasma discharge?
CRUSHER: It's won't be clear until after an autopsy. As far as I know, he could have been poisoned and someone put the plasma infuser in his hand after he died.
OGAWA: You think he was murdered?
CRUSHER: I'm not discounting that possibility. The point is, without a complete autopsy, there's no way of knowing for certain.
OGAWA: Why won't the Ferengi allow it?
CRUSHER: It has to do with their death rituals. The body can't be violated before it's buried. Apparently the family is more concerned about ritual than finding out the truth about how he died. I just can't get the information I need from a tricorder scan. Suspects. If Reyga didn't kill himself. someone else did. So who are the possible suspects?
OGAWA: Whoever had something to gain from his death.
CRUSHER: And the only ones to fit that category are the other scientists.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: I was beginning to find out that investigating a murder was a little more perilous than I'd thought. And for everything I'd been though, I didn't have any more insight than I did before I started.

[Morgue]
CRUSHER: Which brought me back to Reyga's body. Because the more I thought about it, the more it seemed that the answers had to be there. DNA traces, tissue anomalies, a wealth of forensic clues that could shed some light on the mystery. So I made the decision.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Come. Beverly.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I want to tell you something that you need to know, but you're not going to like it. I did an autopsy on Doctor Reyga.
PICARD: What did you find?
CRUSHER: Nothing. I'm sorry. I know I shouldn't have done it.
PICARD: You most certainly should not. I made it clear to you that the family would not allow it. Not only have you disobeyed my orders, but you've interfered in the burial rituals of another culture. You've put both of us in a very difficult position. The family will have to be notified. I don't doubt that they will react strongly. If the Ferengi government becomes involved, as I'm certain they will, this could have very significant repercussions. I'm not sure how much I can protect you.
CRUSHER: You don't have to, Jean-Luc. I knew what I was doing and I'm prepared to accept the consequences.
CRUSHER: I could tell that he was terribly disappointed in me, and that was almost the hardest part of all.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: So that's the story. That's how I ended my career.
GUINAN: Backhand volley.
CRUSHER: What?
GUINAN: That's how I did it. Geordi kept hitting to my backhand at the net.
CRUSHER: Guinan, two people died on this ship. Two lives that ended horribly and you're worried about your tennis game?
GUINAN: Are you upset?
CRUSHER: I don't know. You tell me. You're supposed to be wise.
GUINAN: Well, if you are upset, why are you moping around here? Why don't you do something about it?
CRUSHER: I've done everything I could think of. It got me fired.
GUINAN: Do you think Doctor Reyga killed himself?
CRUSHER: No.
GUINAN: Do you think there's a murderer on board?
CRUSHER: Yes.
GUINAN: Then why are you still sitting here?
CRUSHER: Don't you get it? If I start digging around again.
GUINAN: You could be relieved of duty. Chief Medical Officer's log, personal, stardate 46830.1. I'll be leaving the ship tomorrow to attend the board of inquiry. That means I have less than twenty four hours to get to the bottom of this mystery.

[Shuttlecraft]
CRUSHER: What are you doing, Data?
DATA: I am running additional diagnostics to make certain there was no permanent radiation damage to the shuttlecraft hull.
CRUSHER: You've studied Doctor Reyga's shield system. Do you think it could have been sabotaged?
DATA: There was no evidence to suggest sabotage.
CRUSHER: Just consider the possibility.
DATA: The system interlocks prevent access to the circuitry unless the shield emitter is active. Any attempt to sabotage the device would have to be made while the shield was in operation.
CRUSHER: The only time the shield was active was during Jo'Bril's test flight.
DATA: That is correct. It seems unlikely that Jo'Bril would perform sabotage which would result in his own death.
CRUSHER: I agree. Would it be possible to sabotage the shuttle by remote, during the flight?
DATA: A phased ionic pulse beamed directly into the metaphasic projection matrix would result in a temporary system malfunction.
CRUSHER: Where on the Enterprise could you generate a phased ionic pulse?
DATA: Such a pulse could be initiated from the lateral sensor arrays, science labs one, four, and sixteen, or any of the bridge science stations.
CRUSHER: Let's assume for the moment that someone did send out a phased ionic pulse. What would have happened inside the shuttle?
DATA: A tetryon field would be formed briefly in the cabin, temporarily disrupting the metaphasic shield.
CRUSHER: A tetryon field? If Jo'Bril was exposed to a tetryon field, it might have left residual traces in his tissue. Thanks, Data.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Beverly?
CRUSHER: Yes?
RIKER: We've arranged for a shuttle to take you to Starbase twenty three. You can leave the ship at oh seven hundred hours tomorrow.
CRUSHER: Thank you.
RIKER: About everything that's going on. I'm sorry. I'm sure it will all work out.
CRUSHER: Yes, of course.
RIKER: You know the inquiry's just a formality, and Captain Picard will do everything he can for you.
CRUSHER: I'm sure that'll help.
RIKER: But if you do anything foolish before that inquiry. it's not going to look good for you.
CRUSHER: I don't know what you mean.
RIKER: I think you do know what I mean. The best thing for you to do right now is go to your quarters and read a good book. If you do anything to make the situation any worse it's going to be that much harder on you.
CRUSHER: Thank you, Commander. Your concern is noted.
RIKER: Beverly. I'm saying this to you as a friend.
CRUSHER: Yes, Will, I know. But, as a friend, please try to understand. I can't quit now and I don't want you to become involved in this.

[Morgue]
CRUSHER: We need to run a tissue scan at the molecular level. Calibrate the scanner to pick up tetryon particles.
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor. Re-calibration complete.
CRUSHER: Activate the scan.
OGAWA: Nothing.
CRUSHER: Let's do it again. Use the enhanced resolution mode to boost the sensitivity.
OGAWA: There's something in the subdermal tissue.
CRUSHER: Narrow the scan field. Tetryon traces. Someone did sabotage the shield.
OGAWA: That's a possibility, but this is very circumstantial evidence.
CRUSHER: There's only one way to know for certain.

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, there is no indication of debris. However, the subspace signal indicates a warp engine breach.
PICARD: All right, begin a phase one search, starting with the shuttlecraft's last known coordinates. Plot a proximity course toward the star.
WORF: Sir, we are picking up an object emerging from the corona.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Enterprise. I'm all right. Returning to the ship. And I finally have the answers I've been looking for. Chief Medical Officer's log, stardate 46831.2. I have been reinstated and I will be resuming my duties shortly. In the meantime, I have a personal matter to attend to.

[Ten Forward]
CRUSHER: Hi, Guinan.
GUINAN: Hello. Ooo, somebody's birthday?
CRUSHER: Not unless it's yours. It's for you.
GUINAN: For me? What's the occasion?
CRUSHER: It's a thank you. For giving me a good kick in the butt.
GUINAN: Oh, now, I didn't, er.
CRUSHER: I did some research. This is the latest design, state of the art. It's specially designed to cushion all vibration so you will never have tennis elbow again.
GUINAN: Thank you, Doctor. This looks like a great racquet, but, er, I don't play tennis. Never have.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Computer, override security lock on this door. Authorisation, Riker alpha six zero.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Torva luk do shel! Torva
RIKER: Worf, what the hell are you doing?
WORF: Enter.
WORF: Captain.
PICARD: On your feet, Lieutenant.
WORF: Sir.
PICARD: Mister Worf, your personal affairs are strictly your own concern until they interfere with the operation of this ship. You have now crossed that line. As your Captain, I want to know exactly what is going on.
WORF: It is difficult to explain.
PICARD: Try.
WORF: Ever since I returned from the Carraya system I have felt empty.
PICARD: Does this have something to do with the Klingons you rescued from Carraya Four?
WORF: They were young. They knew nothing of their heritage. So while I was there, I tried to teach them. Teach them about their people, their culture. I told them our ancient stories, instructed them in our customs, explained our beliefs. And then I told them about Kahless. How he united our people long ago. How he gave us strength and honor, and how he promised to return one day and lead us again.
PICARD: Is that what you're doing here? Trying to recapture those feelings?
WORF: Yes. I was trying to summon a vision of Kahless.
PICARD: It's a pity you didn't try using the holodeck instead of setting fire to your quarters.
WORF: Using the holodeck would not have been appropriate. Everything had to be real if Kahless were to appear. But all this was is nothing. He did not come to me. I gave Toq and the others a belief in Sto-Vo-Kor, the life which lies beyond this life where Kahless awaits us. When I saw the power of their beliefs I began to question the strength of my own. And I found it wanting.
PICARD: Have you lost your faith in Sto-Vo-Kor?
WORF: To lose something, one must first possess it. I am not sure I ever had a true belief. But I should not have allowed it to interfere with my duties. My behavior has been
PICARD: Inexcusable. And understandable. It may be that what you are looking for cannot be found here on the Enterprise. Perhaps you need to immerse yourself in Klingon beliefs in order to discover whether they can hold any truths for you. Is there something you can do, is there somewhere you could go to explore your faith more fully?
WORF: Boreth. The Followers of Kahless await his return there. To Klingons, there is no more sacred place.
PICARD: Boreth is only twelve days from here by shuttle. As of this moment, Mister Worf, you are on leave.
WORF: Thank you, sir.
PICARD: But when you set foot on this ship again, I expect you to perform your duties like a Starfleet officer.
WORF: Yes, sir.
PICARD: And, Mister Worf? I hope you find what you're looking for.
WORF: Thank you, sir.

[Observation lounge]
CRUSHER: Did you take any other tricorder readings? An anatomical profile or a neurophysiology scan?
WORF: No.
CRUSHER: It's going to be very difficult to eliminate any possibilities at this point. He may be a coalescent being taking Klingon form, or a bioreplicant or even a Klingon who has been surgically altered to look like Kahless.
WORF: There is another possibility. He could be the real Kahless. He may have actually returned as he promised.
DATA: The appearance of Kahless in the lava caves is consistent with the stories found in the Klingon sacred texts.
RIKER: Worf, no offense, but I have trouble believing that the man I that escorted to deck eight is supernatural.
WORF: I did not say that he is. I merely think we should not completely reject the possibility.
PICARD: Look, we have no reason to rule out anything. We are not ordered to investigate the origins of our guest, nor tell anyone what they should believe. We are simply to transport Kahless to the Home World. And while he's here with us, he will be treated as an honored guest.
DATA: Lieutenant? May I ask a question? In the absence of empirical data, how will you determine whether or not this is the real Kahless?
WORF: It is not an empirical matter. It is a matter of faith.
DATA: Faith? Then you do believe Kahless may have supernatural attributes? As an android, I am unable to accept that which cannot be proven through rational means. I would appreciate hearing your insights on this matter.
WORF: Perhaps some other time, Commander. I do not believe I can provide much insight at this minute.

[Holodeck Temple]
DATA: They have been sitting here for three hours seventeen minutes. They refuse to transport back to the ship with the rest of Gowron's men. They insisted on waiting here until they see Kahless again. Their faith appears to be unaffected by his inability to defeat Gowron. They still believe.
WORF: Then they are fools.
DATA: Does that mean you no longer believe this is the real Kahless?
WORF: Yes.
DATA: I am curious. Do you still think the real Kahless will return someday? Or has this experience only deepened the spiritual crisis which originally sent you to Boreth?
WORF: I do not know.
DATA: I understand your dilemma. I once had what could be considered a crisis of the spirit.
WORF: You?
DATA: Yes. The Starfleet officers who first activated me on Omicron Theta told me I was an android, nothing more than a sophisticated machine with human form. However I realized that if I were simply a machine, I could never be anything else. I could never grow beyond my programming. I found that difficult to accept, so I chose to believe that I was a person, that I had the potential to be more than a collection of circuits and subprocessors. It is a belief which I still hold.
WORF: How did you come to your decision?
DATA: I made a leap of faith.

[Ten Forward]
RIKER: Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Any requests tonight?
TROI: Night Bird.
RIKER: Any request?
TROI: Night Bird!
RIKER: Ladies and gentlemen, Night Bird. One, two.
CRUSHER: What was that all about?
TROI: Will's been trying to get this piece right for ten years now. He's never made it through the solo.
TROI: Here it comes.
DATA: Data to Commander Riker.
RIKER: Go ahead.
DATA: Commander, you are needed on the Bridge.
RIKER: On my way. Saved by the bell.

[Bridge]
RIKER: You wanted to see me, Mister Data?
DATA: Yes, sir. It appears we will be able to transport to the surface sooner than anticipated.
RIKER: Is the planet's distortion field re-phasing sooner than we predicted?
DATA: No, sir. Using the Potemkin's transport logs from the original evacuation, Commander La Forge and I were able to modify the transporters.
RIKER: So we can beam through a higher distortion field.
DATA: The transporters are considerably more efficient than those used on the Potemkin eight years ago.
RIKER: That's a good thing. I almost didn't make it off the surface. When can we get started?
DATA: Ninety seven minutes, sir.
RIKER: How long will the transport window be open?
DATA: Twenty six minutes. After that, the distortion field will re-phase.
RIKER: That doesn't give us much time to retrieve the database.
DATA: The planet's proximity to its sun will create two additional transport windows in the next three days.
RIKER: Let's hope that's enough.
DATA: It will have to be, sir. The next transport window will not occur for another eight years, when the planet's orbit will bring it close enough to the sun to de-phase the distortion field.
RIKER: Okay, notify the away team that we're going in ahead of schedule. I'll tell the Captain.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: Apparently there was a massive energy surge in the distortion field around the planet just at the moment you tried to beam out. The Transporter Chief tried to compensate by initiating a second containment beam.
DATA: An interesting approach. He must have been planning to reintegrate the two patterns in the transport buffer.
LAFORGE: Actually, it wasn't really necessary. Commander Riker's pattern maintained its integrity with just the one containment beam. He made it back to the ship just fine.
CRUSHER: What happened to the second beam?
LAFORGE: The Transporter Chief shut it down, but somehow it was reflected back to the surface.
PICARD: And another William Riker materialized there.
RIKER: How was the second pattern able to maintained its integrity?
LAFORGE: The containment beam must have had the exact same phase differential as the distortion field.
RIKER: Which one of them is real?
LAFORGE: That's the thing. Both. You were both materialized from a complete pattern.
CRUSHER: Up until that moment, you were the same person.
PICARD: But of course, as you and Lieutenant Riker have lived very different lives for the past eight years, you are now very different people. I suppose it's a little like meeting someone's twin. But no matter how strange it may seem to us, we now have two Will Rikers on board. And as Lieutenant Riker will be with us for several days, I think we should do everything we can to make him comfortable and welcome.
RIKER: We still have the problem of retrieving the database. The computer on the station is not completely operational.
DATA: Many of its components have been removed. Apparently Lieutenant Riker used them to keep the station's radiation shield operational.
PICARD: Can it be repaired, at least enough to access the database?
RIKER: Without knowing what he did, that'll be tough.
PICARD: Perhaps he can help us.
PICARD: He was alone down there for a long time. I'm hesitant to let him go back until he's been evaluated.
TROI: I'll talk to him.
PICARD: Thank you, Counselor.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Computer, valerian root tea, hot.
TROI: Meet me in Transporter room three at nineteen hundred hours. It's important.

[Transporter room]
TROI: It pulses unendingly all through the night. Seek out the crystal that powers our flight.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Can I help you, Counselor?
TROI: No, thank you.

[Corridor]
TROI: What the future holds no one can know, But forward we look and forward we go.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: You wanted to see me, sir?
PICARD: Yes, Number One. Come in.
PICARD: Lieutenant Riker has been to see me to talk about the away mission. He believes that the only way to retrieve the database is by directly accessing the main core underneath the station.
RIKER: The seismic activity makes those caverns very unstable. In my opinion, it's too risky.
PICARD: He said that he was down there recently. He seemed confident that it could be done safely.
RIKER: There's a good chance we will be able to retrieve the database from one of the consoles inside the station.
PICARD: But if it doesn't work, we won't have another chance for eight years.
RIKER: Lieutenant Riker's plan is more dangerous, but it does have a better chance of succeeding.
PICARD: Given the importance of the data, I think that it's worth the risk.
RIKER: I'll look over the schematics and I'll draw up a mission plan.
PICARD: I'm sure that Lieutenant Riker will be happy to help you with that.
RIKER: I'll talk to him.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Hello, Will.
RIKER: If you want to be with him, you don't have to ask my permission. It's the look in your eyes. I recognize it. You used to have it for me.
TROI: We've both had relationships with other people. This is different. I didn't know how you'd feel about it.
RIKER: Flattered, sort of.
TROI: This must be very strange for you.
RIKER: Ever since he came on board, I find myself thinking about the choice you and I made.
TROI: Me too.
RIKER: Do me a favor. Be careful.
TROI: Will, I know you and he have had some problems.
RIKER: That's not what I'm talking about. If he had gotten off the planet instead of me, don't you think he would have made the same choices that I made? I just don't want you to be hurt again.

[Research station]
DATA: They have restored the servo link to the core. We can begin downloading the database.
WORF: Initiating data transfer.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 46920.1. We have retrieved the database from Nervala station and are headed for our rendezvous with the Gandhi.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Oh, you really did it this time, Will. This is not just a scrape, this is a very deep cut. Well, I can heal it, of course, but you've got to stop playing Parrises Squares as if you're twenty one years old. One of these days you're going to fall and break your neck, and I'm not going to be able to heal that as easily.
RIKER: I wasn't playing Parrises Squares.
CRUSHER: Worf's callisthenic program?
RIKER: No.
CRUSHER: I give up. What was it?
RIKER: I was trying to feed Spot.
CRUSHER: Data's cat?
RIKER: I told him I'd feed him while he was gone. I was just putting down the bowl of food. The next thing I know there's a hissing ball of fur coming at my face. I hate cats.
CRUSHER: I love cats. You know, you've just got to know how to handle them.
RIKER: Maybe you'd like to do it.
CRUSHER: I would be honored, if I could
WORF: Commander Riker to the Bridge.
RIKER: On my way. Oh, by the way, you'll need this.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Report.
WORF: We are picking up a distress call on long range sensors. It is Romulan, sir.
RIKER: Romulan?
WORF: They claim they have suffered a complete engine failure. Power levels are dropping. Life support is failing. It could be a trick.
RIKER: How long before we rendezvous with Captain Picard?
WORF: Approximately thirteen hours.
RIKER: Lay in a course for the Romulan ship. Let's put up shields and go to Red Alert. I want to be ready for anything.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 46944.2. Commander Data, Mister La Forge, Counselor Troi and I are en route to the Enterprise, after attending a three day conference on the psychological effects of long-term deep-space assignments.

[Runabout living section]
TROI: I was just leaving the reception when this Ktarian walks up to me and says, hello, Diane. I understand you're an empath. I'm a very sensitive man myself. I'm doing a thesis on interspecies mating rituals. Would you care to join me in some empirical research?
LAFORGE: That's a very good impression of Doctor Mizan.
TROI: How did you know?
LAFORGE: He's notorious, but he really is an expert on interspecies mating practices.
DATA: Did you help him with his research, Counselor?
TROI: Absolutely not.
DATA: I thought it was a topic you were interested in.
LAFORGE: How did you enjoy the rest of the conference, Counselor?
TROI: To be honest, I was bored. I spent most of my time at Professor Wagner's phylobiology seminar. I thought the idea of the seminar was that we would all participate, bring different points of views to the discussion. He gathered two hundred scientists from all over the Federation, and all he did was put us to sleep.
DATA: I have a memory record of the entire lecture, Counselor. I can repeat the portions you missed, if you
TROI: No, thank you, Data.
PICARD: Well, it was little better at the physiognomy workshop. Doctor Vassbinder gave an hour long dissertation on the ionization effect of warp nacelles before he realized that the topic was supposed to be psychology.
LAFORGE: Why didn't anybody tell him?
PICARD: There was no opportunity. There was no pause. He just kept talking in one long, incredibly unbroken sentence, moving from topic to topic so that no one had a chance to interrupt. It was really quite hypnotic.
LAFORGE: Well, I had a great time. The warp-energy symposium was fascinating. I actually had an opportunity to touch a plasma field.
TROI: Really? What was it like?
LAFORGE: It was incredible. I could feel the plasma moving up my arm. It was warm and, oh, there was this amazing tingling sensation that
TROI: Captain? Data?
LAFORGE: Moved through my chest. It was incredible. It was like taking a bath in pure energy.
DATA: It was not painful?
LAFORGE: Oh, no. Counselor? Is there something wrong?
TROI: I'm not sure.
LAFORGE: Well, our bioscans check out. There are no physiological anomalies. If something did happen, it didn't leave any biological traces.
PICARD: How long did it appear to you that we were frozen?
TROI: I don't know. Four, maybe five seconds. You just stopped and then started again. I can't explain it.
DATA: My memory record does not indicate a pause or disruption during that time period. My internal chronometer and the ship's computer are both perfectly synchronized. There does not appear to be a temporal diskrepancy.
LAFORGE: Data, let's run a ship-wide diagnostic. Maybe we missed something.
PICARD: Let's go through all this again. You were sitting there. The rest of us were here. Describe the exact moment when we appeared to freeze.
TROI: Well, Geordi was talking about what it felt like to touch the plasma field and you were taking a sip of tea.
PICARD: Did you sense something from any of us at that time? Any unusual emotion?
TROI: Not a thing. I was empathically aware of you right up to the moment you froze, and then it all stopped. The past few days have been exhausting. Maybe it was my imagination. There were moments in that lecture hall when I thought time was standing still there, too.
PICARD: Or there is another possibility, Counselor. This could be nothing more than simple
PICARD: Are you all right, Counselor?
TROI: What happened?
DATA: You were motionless for three minutes eleven seconds.
PICARD: It appears to be the same effect that you described in us. Do you remember anything?
TROI: No. One second I was talking to you, and the next you were all standing around me.
LAFORGE: Wait a second. This is weird.
TROI: What is it?
LAFORGE: I had the tricorder run a comparison between the bioscan I took of you earlier and the one I took just now. In the time between the two scans, you should have aged twenty three minutes, but according to your cellular decay levels you've only aged twenty minutes.
PICARD: How do you account for this diskrepancy?
LAFORGE: I don't know, sir. It's as if for Counselor Troi, for three minutes time just stopped.
PICARD: Mister Data, contact the Enterprise. Tell Commander Riker to meet us at the rendezvous point as soon as possible. Have him scan the region for temporal anomalies.
DATA: Aye, sir.
LAFORGE: I'll check the sensor logs, see if I can find anything.
DATA: Captain, may I see you?

[Runabout cockpit]
DATA: The Enterprise is not responding to our hails.
PICARD: Are we within sensor range?
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: Increase speed to the rendezvous coordinates.
DATA: Aye, sir.
DATA: We have an engine failure warning in the
PICARD: Report!
LAFORGE: The starboard nacelle just cut out.
DATA: Attitude control has been restored.
PICARD: Full stop. What happened?
LAFORGE: The starboard antimatter pod is completely drained. The fuel reserves are empty.
PICARD: Is there a fuel containment leak?
LAFORGE: No, sir. The containment field is intact. all engine systems are operational. The fuel is just gone.
DATA: Geordi, I believe I have an explanation. According to the plasma conversion sensor, the starboard engine has been in continuous operation for forty seven days.
LAFORGE: Forty seven days? Nah. Let's check that sensor. It must be malfunctioning.
PICARD: I'll check the fuel consumption logs.

[Runabout living section]
TROI: What happened?
PICARD: My hand.
TROI: The cells are metabolizing at an incredible speed. Almost fifty times normal.
PICARD: The pain is going away.
TROI: Your metabolism's stabilizing.
PICARD: It happened when I reached for the bowl of fruit.
DATA: Captain, I am detecting a temporal disturbance intersecting the table. It appears that within the disturbance, time is moving at an accelerated rate, approximately fifty times faster than normal. The disturbance is spherical in shape. It is extending outward from the hull approximately seventeen meters from the ship.
LAFORGE: That would cover the starboard nacelle. No wonder it used up all its fuel.
PICARD: Check the hull integrity.
DATA: It does not appear to be affected.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, see if you can move us away from the disturbance.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Runabout cockpit]
LAFORGE: Lateral thrusters online. Data, plot a course away from the disturbance.

[Runabout living section]
LAFORGE: Make sure it doesn't come in contact with our other engine.
DATA: Course plotted. Adjust pitch to twenty seven point three degrees. Set heading one eight zero

[Runabout cockpit]
DATA: Mark zero.
LAFORGE: Got it. Reversing at fifteen meters per second.
DATA: We are clearing the phenomenon.

[Runabout living section]
DATA: All stop.

[Runabout cockpit]
LAFORGE: What was that?

[Runabout living section]
DATA: There is another temporal disturbance directly behind us.

[Runabout cockpit]
LAFORGE: Captain?

[Runabout living section]
LAFORGE: I think you'd better come take a look at this.

[Runabout cockpit]
PICARD: Yes, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: The sensors are picking up temporal disturbances throughout the region. Different configurations, different sizes. They're everywhere.
DATA: Within each disturbance it appears that time is moving at a different rate.
LAFORGE: It's almost as if something has shattered the space-time continuum.
DATA: The fragmentation effect continues along a heading of two seven zero mark one five.
LAFORGE: That's the direction of the Enterprise.
PICARD: Can we navigate around these fragments?
LAFORGE: We'll have to limit our maneuvering speed to one half impulse, but I think we can do it.
PICARD: Get us to the Enterprise.
LAFORGE: These are the coordinates.
PICARD: Perhaps the Enterprise has been delayed.
LAFORGE: I've got the long range sensors on maximum, sir. There's no sign of the Enterprise. But I am picking up a faint reading. Possibly metallic. It's difficult to tell. The energy levels are practically non-existent.
PICARD: Take us to it.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
DATA: The fragmentation effect is increasing.
LAFORGE: Slowing to one eighth impulse.
PICARD: There she is.
TROI: My God.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: The Enterprise and the warbird both appear to be trapped within one of the temporal fragments.
LAFORGE: The fragments seem to be converging at about this point. I'd say we're looking at the center of the temporal disturbances.
PICARD: Scan for life signs.
DATA: Sensors cannot penetrate the subspace field. I am unable to scan within the vessels.
TROI: It looks like the Enterprise has been damaged. There, on the port nacelle.
LAFORGE: The warbird doesn't look to have sustained any damage at all. I wonder if the Enterprise even had time to get off a shot.
TROI: The Romulans could've decloaked before the Enterprise had a chance to respond.
PICARD: There's a second energy beam. It's coming from the Enterprise deflector array. Do you have any idea what that could be?
DATA: It is impossible to tell from a visual inspection. However, it appears to be focused on the warbird's Engineering section.
PICARD: We're not going to be able to determine anything from here. We need to get on board the Enterprise.
DATA: That would be inadvisable, sir. In each of the three instances we came into contact with one of the temporal fragments, we were integrated into its time frame.
LAFORGE: If we beamed aboard the Enterprise, we'd be frozen in time just like they are.
PICARD: Well, we have to find some way of staying unfrozen. Mister La Forge, what about a subspace forcefield like the one we used on Devidia Two? Could something like that protect us from the effects of the temporal fragment?
LAFORGE: Possibly. We'd need an awfully sensitive phase diskriminator in order to moderate that kind of field.
DATA: The emergency transporter armbands contain a type seven phase diskriminator. It should be possible to reconfigure their subspace emitters.
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yeah, that would certainly isolate us from the effects of the other time frame. But if we wanted to interact with that environment, we'd have to restrict the field. It would have to be practically skintight.
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: I will attempt to narrow the field, sir.
LAFORGE: Captain, I think this is going to work, but it's going to take some time.
PICARD: Well, Mister La Forge, it would seem that time is something we have plenty of.
LAFORGE: We've channeled all communications through the subspace relays in the armbands. That way we'll be able to be in continual communication.
TROI: How long will the fields last?
LAFORGE: About an hour, maybe less. Don't worry. I'll monitor you very carefully.
DATA: Counselor?
TROI: I got a little dizzy for a second.
LAFORGE: We've created an artificial pocket of time around you, so it's probably playing tricks with your equilibrium. It might take a little while to get used to it. Let me know if it gets any worse.
PICARD: Beam us directly to the Enterprise Bridge.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. Energizing.

[Bridge]
PICARD: There are three Romulans, all of them with disruptors. One at conn. There are none of our security officers on the Bridge. They must have taken us by surprise. It appears that we can move objects in this time frame.
TROI: Maybe we could do something to help Will.
PICARD: I'm wary about making changes in this time continuum until we understand more about what's going on.
DATA: Captain, the equipment is no longer functioning. However, the information currently displayed indicates that there was a massive power surge in Engineering.
PICARD: Security teams had just been sent to transporter room three. And to Sickbay. Counselor, will you go to Sickbay and investigate? Mister Data, go to main Engineering. See if you can determine the cause of that power surge. I'll be in transporter room three. Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: La Forge here, sir.
PICARD: Will you lock onto our signals. I want you to beam Counselor Troi to
LAFORGE: I'd rather not, Captain. We've got limited power and your isolation fields consume a lot of energy.
PICARD: Understood. We'll use the Jefferies tube. Let's go.

[Jefferies tube]
TROI: Maybe we can go around them.
PICARD: No, we'll find an alternative route. Let's go back up.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Excuse me, Mister Worf.
TROI: Captain.
PICARD: Counselor, take a look at this. It appears that Mister Worf had just beamed these three on board, and according to this, three other Romulans had been beamed directly to Sickbay just seconds earlier.
TROI: I know. I just saw them.
PICARD: What are we doing transporting Romulans on board the ship in the middle of a battle? They don't have any weapons and that one looks injured. If they were part of an invasion, then why are they unarmed? It doesn't make any sense.
TROI: Captain, there's something I have to tell you. Doctor Crusher has been hit by a disruptor blast at point blank range. If time returns to normal I don't see how she can survive.
DATA: Data to Captain Picard.
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Data.
DATA: Please come to Engineering immediately. It is urgent.

[Engineering]
PICARD: What's the problem, Mister Data?
DATA: Captain, I believe I have found the cause of the power surge. There is a warp core breach in progress.
DATA: It is the flashpoint of a warp core explosion. And it is expanding.
PICARD: Expanding? I thought that time was suspended on this ship.
DATA: We were incorrect, sir. I have determined that time is moving forward at an infinitesimal rate.
TROI: Why didn't we notice it before?
DATA: Our initial conclusion was based on our observations of the crew. A warp core breach moves at a much faster rate. The motion of the cloud is within my visual detection threshold. At its current expansion rate, it will consume the Enterprise in approximately nine hours, seventeen minutes.
PICARD: Is there anything we can do to stop it?
DATA: It is no longer a question of stopping it, sir. The explosion has already occurred. The fact that it is moving slowly changes nothing.
PICARD: Astonishing to see it frozen like this.
TROI: Do we know what caused the breach?
DATA: No. However, the console displays indicate a power transfer in progress between the Enterprise and the Romulan ship at the moment time decelerated. That is why there is a second beam between the two ships.
TROI: Why would we be sending them power?
DATA: Perhaps we should go aboard the Romulan ship. The answer to that question may
DATA: Captain?
TROI: Captain, are you all right?
PICARD: My head. Oh. Dizzy. I can't. No! No!
TROI: Troi to La Forge. Get us out of here now!

[Runabout living section]
LAFORGE: It looks like you weren't completely protected from the effects of the other time continuum. The neurophysical stress must've been overwhelming.
DATA: In much the same way deep sea divers experience nitrogen narcosis, you experienced a form of temporal narcosis.
PICARD: Can we modify the subspace isolators to give us better protection?
LAFORGE: I don't think so. I'd say the best thing we can do right now is to be careful, limit our exposure to their time frame. I'd say no longer than ten minutes per trip. And we should stick probably stick together while we're there, just in case.
PICARD: Very well. Well, the first step is to find out why the Enterprise was transferring power to the Romulan ship. I think we should begin our search in the Romulan engine room. Counselor, you spent several days on a Romulan vessel. You probably know more about the layouts than anyone here. Perhaps
TROI: Captain, it might be better if you stayed here this time and gave yourself a chance to recover.
PICARD: Yes, very well. I will monitor your progress from here. But just remember, ten minutes, no more.
TROI: Yes, Captain.

[Runabout cockpit]
DATA: Further energy emissions.
PICARD: When time resumed, did you observe any activity in the engine room that might

[Romulan Engineering]
PICARD: Suggest what the Romulans were doing?
DATA: They may have been attempting to eject their engine core.
TROI: I thought I heard one of the Engineers say something about a power transfer. Something about an energy feedback.
LAFORGE: Yes, Captain. It looks to me like they were trying to stop whatever was happening here.
PICARD: Mister La Forge

[Runabout living section]
PICARD: From where you are, can you determine what's happening on the Romulan Bridge?

[Romulan Engineering]
LAFORGE: I think so, Captain. Wait. Something's not right here. Data, was this man always standing right here.
TROI: He's in neural shock,
DATA: We must get him to the runabout.
TROI: There isn't time. He's dying.
TROI: At least this way, he'll be alive in the other time frame. We might have a chance to save him later. Is the Romulan still alive?
DATA: Yes, but I am getting unusual readings from his bioscan. I am not sure he is a Romulan.

[Bridge]
DATA: I have reached Engineering, Captain. Standing by.
PICARD: Acknowledged. Counselor, are you in position?

[Sickbay]
TROI: Ready, Captain.

[Bridge]
PICARD: All right, Mister Data.

[Engineering]
DATA: Initiating tricorder emissions.

[Engineering]
DATA: Captain.
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Data.
DATA: The warp core breach has been reversed, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Be ready to stop the power transfer, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Status, Mister Data?
DATA: I was attacked by another alien, sir. I was unable to prevent the power transfer. It cannot be disengaged, sir. A core breach is again imminent.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Can we move the ship?
RIKER: The feedback from the transfer beam would tear us apart.
PICARD: Patch me into the navigational control of the runabout.
RIKER: Got it.
PICARD: I'm bringing the runabout in.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Mister Data?
DATA: The core breach has been prevented, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data, it appears that severing the power transfer has not only prevented the core breach, but has also restored

[Engineering]
PICARD: Space-time to normal.
DATA: The alien who attacked me has vanished, sir.
PICARD: The warbird has vanished as well.
DATA: Judging from the residual temporal fluctuations, I believe they have returned to their own time continuum.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Captain?
PICARD: It's going to take a little time to explain, Number One.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 46945.3. We successfully evacuated the crew of the Romulan ship, and we're on course to the Neutral Zone to bring them home.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Come in.
RIKER: Where's that cat of yours?
DATA: Spot is sleeping, sir. Why do you ask?
RIKER: No reason. I've worked out the new rotation schedules. I'd like you to cross-check the personnel assignments. Notify the department heads. Your Bridge shift begins at twenty three hundred hours.
DATA: Understood, sir.
RIKER: Data, what are you doing?
DATA: Recent events have compelled me to study how humans perceive the passage of time. For example, I have often heard people comment that time seems to pass more slowly in one instance, or more quickly in another. In reality, the actual passage of time remains fixed.
RIKER: I suppose it depends on how people perceive time. Every situation is different. It depends on how you feel.
DATA: I have been testing the aphorism, 'a watched pot never boils'. I have boiled the same amount of water in this kettle sixty two times. In some cases, I have ignored the kettle. In others, I have watched it intently. In every instance, the water reaches its boiling point in precisely fifty one point seven seconds. It would appear that I am not capable of perceiving time any differently than my internal chronometer.
RIKER: Well why don't you turn it off?
DATA: Sir?
RIKER: Data, people do not have internal chronometers. Why don't you see what happens if you turn yours off.
DATA: Thank you, sir. I will try that.
RIKER: Just don't be late for your shift.

[Outpost]
WORF: These wounds were caused by a forced plasma beam, similar to a Ferengi hand phaser.
RIKER: This seems brutal even for the Ferengi. Any sign of survivors?
DATA: Electromagnetic interference is still making it difficult to get a precise reading.
RIKER: How many people were assigned to this outpost?
WORF: Two hundred and seventy four.
RIKER: All right. we're going to need to do a room to room search. Worf, you and Corelki start searching the north wing. You and I will take the south.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: The mechanism appears to be jammed, sir.
RIKER: There's not much damage. It doesn't look like they were interested in the station, just the people.
DATA: I have bypassed the primary system.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Evasive maneuvers, Ensign! Return fire.
LAFORGE: Shields down to eighty percent. Compensating with auxiliary power.

[Outpost]
RIKER: Data? Data, are you all right?
DATA: Yes, sir.
RIKER: What happened?
DATA: I got angry.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 46982.1. Because of his unusual behavior on the planet surface, Commander Data has asked to be temporarily relieved of duty. Unfortunately, this means he will not be able to help us investigate a disturbing new change in the behavior of the Borg.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: They were fast, aggressive, almost vicious. it was more like fighting Klingons than Borg. No offense.
WORF: None taken.
RIKER: There was another difference. I don't believe they were part of the Borg collective. I think they were acting as individuals.
PICARD: What?
RIKER: One of them referred to himself as I.
WORF: And that Borg also showed concern for a fallen comrade. He even called him by name.
TROI: The only Borg who had a name was Hugh. And we gave it to him.
CRUSHER: Maybe Hugh has something to do with this change in their behavior.
PICARD: Did they show any interest in assimilating you or your technology?
RIKER: They seemed more concerned with the death of their colleague and with destroying us. I didn't see anything that suggested they wanted to assimilate anybody.
PICARD: The Borg's entire existence was centerd around acquiring cultures and technology. If that's changed, then they must have a new objective. We have to find out what it is. Mister Worf, from this moment on, I want to maintain a level two security alert. Post armed officers on every deck.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Number One, I want you to analyze our sensor readings of the Borg ship. Try to determine if it was something they constructed or an alien ship which they captured. Then run an analysis of this subspace distortion they used to escape.
RIKER: Aye, sir.
PICARD: I'm going to contact Starfleet Command.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Well, the positronic net checks out. Everything else looks fine.
DATA: My internal diagnostic also finds nothing wrong.
LAFORGE: I don't know, Data. There's nothing here that would indicate anything that might cause an sort of behavioral anomaly.
DATA: I agree. Geordi, I believe I've experienced my first emotion.
LAFORGE: No offense, Data, but how would you know a flash of anger from some odd kind of power surge?
DATA: You are correct in that I have no frame of reference to confirm my hypothesis. In fact, I am unable to provide a verbal description of the experience. Perhaps you could describe how it feels to be angry. I could then use that as a reference.
LAFORGE: Well, okay. When I feel angry, first I feel hostile.
DATA: Could you describe feeling hostile?
LAFORGE: It's like feeling belligerent, combative.
DATA: Could you describe feeling angry without referring to other feelings?
LAFORGE: No, I guess I can't. I just feel angry.
DATA: That was my experience as well. I simply felt angry.
LAFORGE: Well, let's say you're right and this is a real emotion. How is that possible?
DATA: I do not know. Perhaps I have evolved to the point where emotions are within my grasp. Perhaps I will experience other emotions as time goes by.
LAFORGE: Well, I hope you're right. I'd hate to think that anger is all you're capable of feeling.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 46984.6. No additional Borg attacks have been reported in the past two days. However, Starfleet has dispatched Admiral Nechayev to take command in this sector in preparation for a possible Borg invasion.

[Troi's office]
DATA: For the past six hours, I have attempted to produce an emotional response by subjecting myself to various stimuli.
TROI: Like what?
DATA: I listened to several operas known to be uplifting, I watched three holodeck programs designed to be humorous, and I made four attempts to induce sexual desire by subjecting myself to erotic imagery.
TROI: What happened?
DATA: Nothing.
TROI: I'm curious. Why are you ignoring the one emotion you've already experienced? Why aren't you trying to make yourself angry again?
DATA: Anger is a negative emotion. I wanted to concentrate on something more positive.
TROI: Data, feelings aren't positive and negative, they simply exist. It's what we do with those feelings that becomes good or bad. For example, feeling angry about an injustice could lead someone to take a positive action to correct it.
DATA: But my study of humanity indicates there are some emotions that are harmful, such as jealousy or hatred.
TROI: Those are very strong emotions, and you're right, very little good can come from them. But I don't think that an exploration of anger need necessarily lead to hatred or malice.
DATA: But what if it does, Counselor? What if it turns out that those are the only emotions I am capable of experiencing? Would that not make me a bad person?
TROI: We've served together for a long time and I think I've come to know you pretty well. I have to believe if you ever reach your goal of becoming human, you won't become a bad one.
DATA: I wish I were as confident as you, Counselor. When I was fighting the Borg, I felt angry, but when I think back on the incident, I realize that I was also experiencing another sensation. It was not the same as anger, but I think it was an emotion.
TROI: When exactly did you feel this other emotion?
DATA: It was just after I had killed the Borg. I looked down at his body. I felt something.
TROI: If you had to give this feeling a name, what would you call it?
DATA: I believe it was pleasure.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Red alert! All hands to battle stations. Lay in a course. Engage warp nine.
RIKER: We received a distress call from the New Berlin Colony. They're under attack.
PICARD: What's our ETA?
WORF: At warp nine, fifteen minutes, thirty seconds.
PICARD: Contact the Crazy Horse and the Agamemnon. Have them standing by in case we need them.
WORF: Captain, incoming message from the New Berlin Colony. They have canceled their distress call. Evidently a Ferengi trading ship entered their system and someone panicked.
RIKER: Third time today. Stand down Red alert. Reduce speed. Return to our patrol route.
PICARD: Mister Worf, acknowledge the signal from New Berlin and transmit another copy of Starfleet's ship-recognition protocols and tell them to read it this time.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We have been on patrol for sixteen hours, and there are no reports of further Borg activity. But tensions continue to run high on the colonies and outposts in this sector.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. We're on the surface. There's no sign of any Borg, or Data. The shuttle appears to be abandoned.
WORF: The EM interference is limiting the tricorder range. It is useless beyond one hundred meters.
RIKER: There are

[Bridge]
RIKER: No structures in the area. They could've gone anywhere.
PICARD: Can you determine how long they've been gone from the shuttlecraft?

[Planet surface]
RIKER: The engine's been off a little over three hours.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Stand by, Number One. Assuming that they're still together, how far could they have traveled in three hours?
LAFORGE: Well, Data can move pretty fast even over rough terrain, but based on what we know about the Borg, I don't think they should be able to move any faster than you or I. They might have been able to get fifteen or twenty kilometers from the shuttle by now.
PICARD: Picard to Riker.
RIKER: Riker here.
PICARD: I'm going to start sending down other away teams. Set up a command post and begin mapping out a search plan.
RIKER: Understood, sir.
PICARD: Picard out. I want to use the shuttlecraft for low level reconnaissance. Have the designated pilots assemble at main shuttlebay.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: And all available personnel, including you and me, will begin to put together four man away teams. We'll leave a skeleton crew on board the ship.
LAFORGE: Who'll be in command of the Enterprise?
CRUSHER: Any last orders?
PICARD: If the Borg should attack, don't wait for me or anyone else to return to the ship but take the Enterprise to the transwarp conduit. Return to Federation space.
CRUSHER: Got it. Good luck, Jean-Luc.
PICARD: Good luck, Captain.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: I've sent out twelve teams so far. I've got your team searching section gamma two four. Worf and I will take theta one six when the last team comes down.
PICARD: Who's manning the command post?
RIKER: Wallace and Towles. Ready?
PICARD: Anything, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Well, no. Nothing, sir.
PICARD: What if we modified the phasers to send out a luvetric pulse? It might create a resonance fluctuation in Data's power cells.
LAFORGE: Home in on that response with our tricorders. Yeah, I thought about that. The only problem is that the pulse would probably have to be so powerful that it would destroy Data's positronic net in the process.
TROI: Captain. I think I've found something.
PICARD: Come on.

[outside the building]
LAFORGE: I'm having trouble scanning the interior.
PICARD: Can you tell if it was built by the Borg?
LAFORGE: I don't think so. There are no Borg energy signatures. But there is a door or a hatch or something about twenty meters this way.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: I can't contact the Captain. It could just be interference, but I'd like to be sure.
CRUSHER: Understood.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: If you have to. I want those teams up here as fast as possible.

[Bridge]
RIKER: The Captain's team.
CRUSHER: I'm not going to leave you down there.

[Planet surface]
RIKER: You pull as many people off the surface as you can and get back to the transwarp conduit. The Captain's orders were to get the Enterprise back to Federation space.

[Bridge]
CRUSHER: Another minute and we would have had them.

[Holding cell]
PICARD: Data, you must realize that something has happened to you. The Data I know would never have agreed to be a willing party to Lore's plan.
DATA: I now realize that my life aboard the Enterprise was a waste. My quest to become human was misguided. An evolutionary step in the wrong direction.
TROI: Data, all I'm sensing from you is anger and hatred. Have you felt any other emotions?
DATA: There are no other emotions.
LAFORGE: Data, just because you haven't experienced certain emotions doesn't mean they don't exist. Lore is only feeding you the negative ones.
DATA: Counselor Troi told me herself that feelings are not negative or positive. It is how we act on them that makes them good or bad.
PICARD: Fine. But what about the things that Lore is proposing? What about the lives that have already been lost?
DATA: You simply do not understand. In a quest such as ours, sacrifices have to be made. It is regrettable, but the greater good must be served. Give me your visor.
LAFORGE: Why?
DATA: Give it to me or I will take it by force.
DATA: I am not your puppet anymore.

[Planet surface]
WORF: Still no sign of the structure.
RIKER: With all this interference it could be a hundred meters away and we wouldn't know it. This could take hours.
WORF: I am detecting a faint energy reading.
RIKER: Residual thermal traces. Somebody stood here.
WORF: The decay rate indicates it could be human.
RIKER: They took this path.

[Holding cell]
LAFORGE: Lore must have told Data to take my visor because he realized I could see a carrier wave that was radiating from him.
PICARD: A carrier wave? Is that how he's manipulating Data?
LAFORGE: I think what's happening is that Lore is tapping into the chip he stole from Doctor Soong and somehow he's found a way to transmit part of that emotional program to Data.
TROI: But the only emotions Data seems to feel are negative.
LAFORGE: Yeah, I'm sure that's intentional. But in order for Data to be affected by those emotions, Lore would have had to disable his ethical program first.
PICARD: Can we reactivate it?
LAFORGE: If I can generate a phased kedion pulse at the right frequency, that would trigger Data's subsystems and reboot the program.
PICARD: And although Lore would still be feeding him negative emotions, at least Data might listen to us.
LAFORGE: Right.
TROI: I think it's worth a try.
LAFORGE: So, got any ideas on how we generate a kedion pulse?
PICARD: Data, where are you taking him?
DATA: That is not your concern.
PICARD: Data, wait. Let us talk to you.

[Planet surface]
WORF: Commander.

[Lore's lab]
LAFORGE: Data? Who's there?
DATA: Geordi?
LAFORGE: Captain.
DATA: Shh. We're getting out of here.
LAFORGE: Come on, hurry. Data was just here. I think he went to get something.
DATA: Too late. My brother suggested that I try to develop my sense of humor. What do you think?
LAFORGE: I think it needs a little work.
LAFORGE: What's happening?
DATA: I'm attemptin to neutralize your pain receptors.
LAFORGE: What are you going to do to me?
DATA: I am implanting nano-cortical fibers in your cerebrum. They are designed to learn and mimic your neural firing patterns. Once they are in place, I will destroy the existing brain cells. We'll see if the artificial neural network is able to take over your cognitive functions.
LAFORGE: Data, listen. Lore is controlling you. He's transmitting a carrier wave which is affecting your positronic matrix.
DATA: If the procedure is successful, your cognitive processing functions will be considerably improved.
LAFORGE: Don't you care that he's manipulating you?
DATA: However, there is a sixty percent chance you will not survive the procedure.
LAFORGE: I don't care much for those odds.
DATA: They are cause for concern. However, I still have Counselor Troi and Captain Picard. The odds are that at least one of the procedures will be successful.

[Holding cell]
TROI: Help me!
TROI: He tried to escape. The force field sent him into neural shock. If he dies, Lore will blame you.
PICARD: See if the corridor is empty.
DATA: Drop it or I will break his neck.
DATA: Take him.
PICARD: What have you done to him?
DATA: I will be back for him later.
TROI: Geordi, are you in pain?
LAFORGE: No. I'm just a little dizzy.
PICARD: I was able to take part of a transceiver from the guard's interlink system. I think that it uses some kind of phased-pulse technology. Do you think it could be modified to generate a kedion pulse that would reboot Data's program?
LAFORGE: Yeah, yeah, it's possible. See if you can locate the phase modulation circuitry.
TROI: I'll watch the door.
PICARD: All right, I think I've found it.
LAFORGE: Okay, good. Now, do you see anything that we might be able to use as a flux inhibitor?

[Holding cell]
PICARD: Well, I've done everything that Geordi said. Now to activate it.
TROI: How are we going to know whether the pulse reboots Data's ethical program?
PICARD: We'll only tell that when we see his behavior.
TROI: Won't he realize something's happened to him?
PICARD: No, it's one program among thousands. I just hope this force field has enough energy to trigger the pulse.

[Lore's lab]
LAFORGE: You know, Data, I've been thinking about some of the times we've had. Like that time we went sailing on Devala Lake. You remember that?
DATA: I have a complete memory record of that day.
LAFORGE: You decided to go swimming, and when you jumped out of the boat you sank straight to the bottom.
DATA: I did not have enough buoyancy to get back to the surface.
LAFORGE: You had to walk over a kilometer along the bottom to get back to shore.
DATA: One kilometer forty six meters.
LAFORGE: It took almost two weeks to get the water out of your servos.
DATA: I am ready to irradiate your existing brain cells.
LAFORGE: Data, if you ever go back to the way you were, you might not be able to forgive yourself for what you're about to do.
DATA: I am getting some anomalous readings from your neural net. I will need to do further testing before I proceed. Someone will come and take you back to your cell.

[Holding cell]
PICARD: You're killing him. He won't survive another session.
DATA: I did not come for him. I came for you.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Enter.
LAFORGE: Hi, Data. I just wanted to let you know that Doctor Crusher says I'll be able to return to duty soon.
DATA: I am relieved that the injuries I inflicted on you are not permanent.
LAFORGE: What's that?
DATA: This is the chip my father created for me so that I could experience emotions. I had it removed from Lore's body before he was dismantled.
LAFORGE: Does it work?
DATA: No. I am pleased to say it was damaged when I was forced to fire on Lore.
LAFORGE: Pleased? Data, you've wanted emotions all your life.
DATA: Yes. But emotions were responsible for what I did to you. I would never risk letting that happen again. My friendship with you is too important to me.
LAFORGE: Data, I wouldn't be very much of a friend if I let you give up on a life-long dream, would I? Maybe someday, when you're ready.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Enter. Enter.
RIKER: Worf, they're going to be here any minute.
WORF: I am having problems.
RIKER: If I didn't know you better, I'd say that you were procrastinating.
WORF: Klingons do not procrastinate. It is a tactical delay.
RIKER: You have spend about five minutes greeting the Iyaarans maybe an hour making small talk at this reception. I'm the one who has to escort them around the ship for the next three days.
WORF: I do not enjoy these diplomatic situations.
RIKER: It's all part of being in Starfleet. There.
WORF: I do not see why it is necessary to wear these ridiculous uniforms.
RIKER: Protocol.
WORF: They look like dresses.
RIKER: That is an incredibly outmoded and sexist attitude. I'm surprised at you. Besides, you look good in a dress.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: I am going to kill him! With my bare hands, I will take him by the throat and I will rip out his esophagus
RIKER: Worf.
WORF: I have failed in my mission, Commander. I am clearly a bad diplomat. For the sake of the ship and the Federation, I request reassignment.
RIKER: Denied.
WORF: Commander, these Iyaarans are arrogant, irritating. They cannot be reasoned with!
TROI: Ambassador Loquel's quite pleasant. I will admit though, he's a little unusual.
RIKER: What have you been able to find out about him so far?
TROI: He seems preoccupied with recreation. I've spent more time in Ten Forward in the last two days than I have in the past two months. And he's obsessed with food. Especially chocolate.
RIKER: You must be in heaven.
TROI: To be honest, he's testing even my limits.
WORF: You see? You see? They are insane!
TROI: Worf, you've been very patient with Ambassador Byleth, and that's good. But maybe it's time to let him know that some behavior is unacceptable to us. I think it's all right to suggest limits for the Ambassador.
WORF: Bah.
RIKER: Maybe we should loosen things up a little bit, meet in a less official capacity. How about a friendly game of poker?

[Jefferies tube]
RIKER: Geordi, have you found it yet?
LAFORGE: Not yet. I'm starting to get some fumes. Ammonia, chlorine, potassium chloride.
LAFORGE: I can feel the heat from here.
LAFORGE: There it is.
RIKER: How far?
LAFORGE: About ten meters up the ODN line. Boy, it's hot. I'd say over two thousand degrees. I'm going in.
LAFORGE: We're okay. I've activated the emergency suppression system.

[Laboratory]
CRUSHER: All his vital functions are completely normal.
DATA: The interface unit is operating within expected parameters.
RIKER: Why did he start coughing when he went through the gasses?
CRUSHER: Psychosomatic response.
LAFORGE: I feel like I'm actually here. I mean there, in the Jefferies tube. It's funny. When I saw the smoke, I couldn't help but cough.
DATA: No one else has reported so complete a sensory experience.
CRUSHER: The interface is perfect for Geordi because his visor inputs allow the probe to transmit information directly into his cerebral cortex.
RIKER: It looks like this is going to work. Geordi, I'd like to get the probe out of the Jefferies tube and onto the launch bay before we reach Marijne Seven.
LAFORGE: Will do. Wait a minute.

[Jefferies tube]
LAFORGE: Something's wrong. Can't get my left leg to work.

[Laboratory]
RIKER: What is it?
CRUSHER: The probe is designed to respond to any movement Geordi intends to make. When his brain sends a message to move his leg, the interface should move the probe instead.
DATA: Apparently the tactile sensors are too low. I will increase the input.

[Jefferies tube]
LAFORGE: There it goes. I'm on my way down.

[Laboratory]
RIKER: Why the body suit?
DATA: It provides tactile sensations so that Geordi can feel he's in the same environment as the probe.
CRUSHER: Geordi, what's wrong?
LAFORGE: Nothing. I'm seeing my reflection in a panel.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I forgot what a handsome guy I am.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 47215.5. We are responding to a distress call from the science vessel Raman, which is apparently trapped inside the turbulent atmosphere of an unusual gas giant planet. We will use an experimental interface probe in our attempt to rescue it.

[Bridge]
DATA: I have reviewed the vessel's mission plans. The Raman was to descend to the lower atmosphere, eleven thousand kilometers below its current position. The crew was to sample the atmosphere at that level, and then return to a safer orbit.
LAFORGE: Something must have happened down there. Maybe the shields failed, or they had some kind of inversion reaction in the nacelles.
PICARD: Any life signs?
LAFORGE: Our biosensors are useless. There's too much interference in the atmosphere.
RIKER: The crew might still be alive. There's no way we can tell from up here.
PICARD: Will the probe be able to transmit through that interference?
DATA: The probe sends information via a focused particle beam. It should be able to cut through the interference.
LAFORGE: But we may have to operate the probe at close to tolerance levels.
PICARD: Will your nervous system be able to handle that much sensory input?
LAFORGE: We've already tested the interface at about seventy percent tolerance.
RIKER: We shouldn't have any trouble going higher. The safety override will kick in at about ninety eight percent tolerance, and that'll disengage the interface.
WORF: Captain, I am receiving a transmission from Starfleet Command. Admiral Holt.
PICARD: In my ready room. The seven people on that ship are our first priority. Is the probe ready for launch?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Send it directly to the aft section of the Raman through the secondary air lock. That way it should put it just one bulkhead away from the Bridge.
LAFORGE: I'll interface with the probe as soon as it's ready, take it the rest of the way from there.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Laboratory]
PICARD: Mister Data, I'd like a word with Commander La Forge.
DATA: Aye, sir. I will be on the Bridge.
PICARD: Geordi, I've just spoken with Starfleet. The Hera is missing.
LAFORGE: Missing? My mother?
PICARD: Captain La Forge has disappeared along with the rest of her crew.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Captain, the probe is through the airlock and in position aboard the Raman.
PICARD: Picard to Commander Data. Report.

[Laboratory]
DATA: We are ready to bring the interface online, sir.
PICARD: Proceed.
DATA: Activating the remote sensors. Initiating interface now.
CRUSHER: Vital signs normal. Geordi, how do you feel?
LAFORGE: Fine.
DATA: Do you have visual contact?
LAFORGE: Not yet.

[Raman corridor]
LAFORGE: Data, turn up the input sensors. I'm not seeing anything.
DATA: Acknowledged.
LAFORGE: Okay, I can see.

[Laboratory]
LAFORGE: But no colors.
DATA: Increasing signal strength to seventy five percent of tolerance.
LAFORGE: Ah, that's better.
CRUSHER: Your pulse has gone up. Your nervous system probably has to get used to the input levels.
LAFORGE: I'm excited, that's all, Doctor. This is like being on a roller coaster. Or a first date. I'm all right.
CRUSHER: I'll be the judge of that. If your heart rate gets too high, we're going to disconnect you.
LAFORGE: Understood.

[Raman corridor]
LAFORGE: It's a mess in here. There must be a breach in the hull someplace. I'm picking up atmospheric gasses in the corridor. Methane and ammonia, primarily. That break in the hull might even be on the Bridge itself. I'm heading towards the Bridge. I've found someone.
DATA: What is your position?
LAFORGE: About twelve meters up the main corridor. He's trapped under some conduit from the bulkhead. I can't move it. I'm going to need more power to the tractor beam.
CRUSHER: Go to eighty percent of tolerance, Data. No higher.
LAFORGE: He's dead. Data, that door at the end of this corridor. What's it lead to?
DATA: A magnetic storage bay.
LAFORGE: If there was a break in the Bridge, that'd be the safest place to go. Data, give me a phaser burst. Narrow focus, level four intensity.
LAFORGE: I've found them. They're dead. All of them. There's a fire in here. Argh!

[Laboratory]
CRUSHER: Data, disconnect! What happened? Geordi?
LAFORGE: I don't know. My hands.
CRUSHER: They're burned.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: How did this happen?
CRUSHER: There was some kind of energy discharge in the interface suit.
PICARD: But shouldn't the safety overrides have prevented that?
CRUSHER: Yes, but I have a theory why they didn't. The tolerance levels of the interface were set extremely high. I think Geordi's neural response to the input was so strong that it created a feedback loop.
LAFORGE: The sensors that were transmitting the sensation of heat to my hands must've overloaded.
PICARD: The crew of the Raman are dead. I would like to retrieve them and their vessel, but not if it means putting Geordi's safety at risk.
LAFORGE: If we turn down the sensory input on the probe, I should be fine. Seven people lost their lives down there, Captain. We should at least retrieve the information they were collecting.
PICARD: Doctor?
CRUSHER: If we operate the interface at lower input levels, I'd say the risk is acceptable.
PICARD: Picard to Riker.
RIKER: Riker here.
PICARD: We will proceed with the probe.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We'll have to take it into the Raman's auxiliary control room. Their Bridge is too badly damaged.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: How long before you have it in position?
RIKER: A couple of hours. We have to cut through the bulkhead.
PICARD: Acknowledged.
CRUSHER: Well, it looks like you'll have time to recuperate.
LAFORGE: Yeah. There's something I've got to do anyway.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Come in.
LAFORGE: Hey, Data. Still working?
DATA: No. I have completed the adjustments on the interface. I am now waiting for Commander Riker to finish moving the probe. Do you need to be comforted?
LAFORGE: No. I was just passing by. I was wondering what you were up to.
DATA: I am using the time to catch up on my study of poetry.
LAFORGE: Data, there's nothing on the screen.
DATA: That is not entirely correct. While it is true the display is currently blank, this emptiness has a poetic meaning. Therefore it cannot be considered nothing as such.
LAFORGE: Says who?
DATA: The ancient Doosodarians. Much of their poetry contained such lacunae or empty spaces. Often these pauses measured several days in length, during which poet and audience were encouraged to fully acknowledge the emptiness of the experience.
LAFORGE: I remember a few lectures from Starfleet Academy that seemed like that.
DATA: Are you certain you do not wish to talk about your mother?
LAFORGE: Why would you ask that?
DATA: You are no doubt feeling emotional distress as a result of her disappearance. While you claim to be just passing by, that is most likely an excuse to start a conversation about this uncomfortable subject. Am I correct?
LAFORGE: No, Data. Sometimes just passing by means, just passing by.
DATA: Then I apologize for my premature assumption. This particular poem has a lacuna of forty seven minutes. You may experience the emptiness with me if you wish.
LAFORGE: Thanks. You know, Data, maybe you gave up a little too easily.
DATA: I do not understand.
LAFORGE: Well, when I said just passing by means just passing by, I really didn't mean it.
DATA: My initial assumption was correct. You do wish to speak of your mother.
LAFORGE: Am I crazy to think that she's still alive?
DATA: Your sanity is not in question. However, your evaluation of the available information is biased.
LAFORGE: She's a starship captain. She's gotten herself into and out of impossible situations before. Why should this be any different?
DATA: Disappearances fitting the profile of the Hera have rarely ended with the safe recovery of ship and crew.
LAFORGE: Well that makes me feel much better. Look, I'm sorry, Data. I didn't mean to snap at you.
DATA: I am not offended. You are upset. Your reactions are not surprising.
LAFORGE: It's just that, if she really is dead, I don't know what I'm going to do.

[Laboratory]
CRUSHER: We're receiving the probe's telemetry.
DATA: The input levels are currently at fifty three percent of tolerance.
LAFORGE: That's too low, Data. I won't be able to do anything down there.
CRUSHER: I want to start with as wide a margin of safety as possible. We can adjust upward later. Ready?
LAFORGE: Go ahead.
DATA: Initiating interface.
LAFORGE: I can't see anything.

[Laboratory]
CRUSHER: Geordi, who are you speaking to? What are you seeing?

[Laboratory]
CRUSHER: Geordi, report.

[Laboratory]
DATA: The cut off has been automatically activated.
CRUSHER: He's in neural shock.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: The sensory overload didn't cause any permanent damage, but I wouldn't want to expose his brain to that kind of stimulus again.
PICARD: Is there any indication what caused this hallucination?
CRUSHER: His brain functions are normal.
LAFORGE: I told you, I wasn't hallucinating.
DATA: Geordi, I have analyzed the probe's sensor logs. There are no record to indicate the presence of a living human on board the Raman.
LAFORGE: Well she wasn't actually there. Her ship is down on the surface.
PICARD: So you believe that what you saw was some kind of transmission?
LAFORGE: Somehow she has managed to communicate with me.
DATA: We have no indication of a transmission of any kind.
LAFORGE: Maybe I'm the only one who can detect it because I'm interfaced with the probe.
DATA: The probe does allow Geordi to sense quantum fluctuations, subspace anomalies, and other phenomenon not perceptible by any other kind of sensors.
PICARD: Granted, but how could he perceive his mother visually as if she were standing there in the room?
CRUSHER: I'm not sure, I do know that our brains weren't designed to process the kind of sensory information Geordi was getting. When the brain receives something it can't understand, it interprets the input as best it can, sometimes as a smell or a sound, sometimes visually.
LAFORGE: You see?
CRUSHER: But Geordi, I'm not saying that your mother was really communicating with you. I'm just trying to give you a reason why you might've thought that she was.
LAFORGE: Look, I'm telling you my mother's ship is trapped down there and we've got to help them.
PICARD: Geordi, the Hera's last reported location was three hundred light years away. How could it end up here?
DATA: If the Hera is on the surface, its hull could not possibly withstand the pressure of the atmosphere.
LAFORGE: Well at least let me go back down there just to be sure.
CRUSHER: I do not recommend that he use the interface again. The sensory overload almost killed you.
LAFORGE: I'll be all right.
PICARD: No, no, I'm sorry, Geordi. I'm not prepared to risk your life. Data, find another way of salvaging the Raman. I want an alternate plan in two hours.
PICARD: Geordi, I'd like you to talk to Counselor Troi. She's expecting you.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Troi's office]
TROI: What's your mother like, Geordi?
LAFORGE: If you think I'm going to start talking about my childhood, Counselor, you're way off.
TROI: That's not what I asked.
LAFORGE: Well, she's, she's brilliant. Funny. She's incredibly perceptive. She knows people. Knows what they're all about even before they open their mouths. She's always been that way. She's a real good judge of character.
TROI: When was the last time you saw her?
LAFORGE: About seven months ago, when she first took command of the Hera. I went to a party she had for her crew. She wanted me to come over and see her, but I was really busy at the time. I mean I suppose I could have made the time to go and see her, but, you know, I just didn't think that. I mean, you know, I, I didn't think that
TROI: You didn't think it would be your last chance to see her.
LAFORGE: That's not what I was going to say.
TROI: I want to suggest something. Call it a theory, all right?
LAFORGE: All right.
TROI: You're worried about the disappearance of your mother, guilty that you didn't see her when you had the chance, so you're unwilling to consider that she might be dead. Your need to believe she's alive is so strong that it manifests itself as a physical image.
LAFORGE: But she told me she's trapped on that planet, that she's in danger. Now, if this was some kind of wish fulfilllment, don't you think I'd be fantasizing her safe and sound?
TROI: No. Because that would be the end of your fantasy. You'd know it wasn't true. The more involved and complicated and unending your story is, the longer you can believe your mother's still alive.
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, that's your theory, Counselor. I've got one of my own.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: I have been exploring the possibility of using a tractor beam to pull the Raman from the atmosphere. However, the high level of interference prevents a positive lock.
RIKER: If we set up some sort of relay system?
DATA: That is my conclusion as well, Commander. Two shuttlecraft, staggered between the Enterprise and the Raman, with their shields adjusted to refocus the tractor beam.
PICARD: Can we get the shuttles close enough without danger? Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: Sure. Yeah. As long as we keep them both above the troposphere, that'll be all right.
PICARD: Then in that case
LAFORGE: But what about the Hera? We'd be leaving my mother and her crew stranded on the planet.
PICARD: Commander.
LAFORGE: I've been thinking about this. A couple of weeks ago I got a message from my mother. She said she had a new Chief Engineer who had been experimenting with the warp drive. Now, I've seen the Hera. It uses trionic initiators in the warp coil. They have a reputation of strange side effects, especially when you start playing around with them.
DATA: There have been reports of warp bubbles and other subspace deformations.
LAFORGE: So, what if that's what happened? Not a warp bubble, but a subspace funnel.
RIKER: Connecting two points through subspace?
LAFORGE: Well the Hera could have accidentally created a distortion that emptied out right here at Marijne Seven.
PICARD: Why here?
LAFORGE: The Hera passed near this planet just ten days ago. There's an awful lot of subspace disturbance in the atmosphere. The ship could've accidentally picked up some residual traces that directed the funnel right back here.
RIKER: So the Hera's in one piece somewhere out there?
LAFORGE: Maybe it's being surrounded by some kind of warp field, but who knows for how long?
PICARD: Mister La Forge, do you have any evidence to support this hypothesis?
LAFORGE: I did pick up some pretty strange subspace readings when I was interfaced with the probe.
RIKER: Geordi, that could have been anything.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but I talked to her, Commander. She asked me to bring the Raman closer to the planet.
PICARD: Mister Data, is any of this possible?
DATA: Yes, sir. However, it is highly unlikely.
PICARD: How unlikely?
DATA: Nearly impossible, sir.
PICARD: let's proceed with the shuttle plan.
LAFORGE: Captain
PICARD: Dismissed. Mister La Forge.
PICARD: I want you to know that I am not unsympathetic to what you're going through. Your mother's disappearance is tragic, but I cannot risk your safety on the basis of a dubious hypothesis.
LAFORGE: Captain, if I'm right and there's just one chance in a million that she's alive
PICARD: I'm sorry, Geordi. My decision is made.
LAFORGE: I understand, sir.

[Engineering]
RIKER: We'll be in position to use the tractor beam in less than an hour.
LAFORGE: You didn't come all the way down here to tell me that.
RIKER: No, I didn't. Geordi, I may have seemed a little harsh about the situation aboard the Raman. I just don't like the idea of one of my best officers putting himself in unnecessary danger.
LAFORGE: I guess I feel like I should be the one to decide whether it's unnecessary or not.
RIKER: My mother died when I was a baby. All I have is pictures, and the stories that my father used to tell me about her. I begged him to tell those stories over and over. When I was five and I went to school, I started to tell my new friends those same stories, pretending that she was alive. Then I started believing that she was alive, that she'd just gone away, that she was coming back. The teacher got wind of this, and she and my father had this talk with me. They told me it was important to accept the fact that my mother was dead and that she wasn't coming back. And all the hoping in the world wouldn't make it so. In my mind, that was the day that my mother actually died. I cried all that night. But after that, it started feeling better.
LAFORGE: Your mother was dead. There was proof. There was a body, and a funeral. It was a reality.
RIKER: Geordi.
LAFORGE: If I could see a body, if there were wreckage, I could accept it, but my mother has just disappeared. And now, there's a possibility that she is alive. And I'm not going to quit. Not yet.

[Laboratory]
DATA: I suspected you would attempt to operate the interface alone.
LAFORGE: Did you?
DATA: I am familiar enough with your behavior patterns to predict certain decisions.
LAFORGE: Well I guess you know me pretty well.
DATA: You are disobeying the Captain.
LAFORGE: I can't just sit back and do nothing when I know that my mother might be down on that planet.
DATA: I can not allow you to endanger your well-being.
LAFORGE: Data, if I leave without knowing for sure, then I'll have to live with that for the rest of my life, wondering if I left her to die. I couldn't do that. That's why I've got to do this.
DATA: I could have you confined to quarters for the duration of the mission.
LAFORGE: If that's what you need to do, Data, then do it. Because nothing short of that is going to stop me from trying to save my mother.
LAFORGE: What are you doing?
DATA: I will monitor the interface and attempt to keep you safe. I can not have you confined to quarters for something you have not yet done.
LAFORGE: You know we could both get in a lot of trouble for this.
DATA: There is a high degree of probability that you are correct.
LAFORGE: Thanks, Data.
DATA: However, I do have a request.
LAFORGE: Yeah? What's that?
DATA: I would ask you to consider the possibility that what you see is not real.
LAFORGE: I will. I promise.
DATA: I am establishing the interface.

[Laboratory]
LAFORGE: Confirmed everything I've been saying.
DATA: I am reading unusual subspace energy in your vicinity, similar to what the probe sensor recorded the first time you encountered your mother.
LAFORGE: That's how she's communicating with me. It's the only kind of signal they could send that could cut through the interference.

[Laboratory]
DATA: Geordi, the atmosphere becomes increasingly turbulent the farther down you go. You may not be able to bring the Raman close enough to the Hera before being destroyed.
LAFORGE: I have to try, Data.

[Laboratory]
LAFORGE: I'm losing the interface.
DATA: The probe is descending out of range.
LAFORGE: You'll have to turn up the input gain to maintain my connection.
DATA: We are already at seventy five percent of tolerance.
LAFORGE: Data, you can turn it all the way up to a hundred if you increase it slowly enough. Give my nervous system chance to adjust.
DATA: That is theoretically true, but even at this level of input you are already experiencing dangerous neural feedback.
LAFORGE: There are over three hundred people on board the Hera, Data. You and I are the only chance they've got.
DATA: I will increase the gain incrementally as you descend.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: It's working.

[Laboratory]
DATA: When we are ready to disconnect the interface, we must allow enough time to lower the input levels, otherwise your nervous system will go into shock from the sudden drop in input.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, the Raman is descending toward the planet.
RIKER: Geordi.

[Laboratory]
DATA: We are at ninety percent of tolerance. My calculations show you will reach one hundred percent of tolerance before you are in range of the Hera.
LAFORGE: Then we're going to have to go beyond tolerance.
DATA: That would not be advisable. You must cease your descent.

[Laboratory]
DATA: Geordi, you are putting me in a difficult position. Please, cease your descent.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: I won't do it, Data. You're going to have to increase the tolerance.

[Laboratory]
DATA: Disengaging safety systems. Going to full tolerance levels, now.
LAFORGE: Thank you, Data.

[Laboratory]
PICARD: Stop your descent. Prepare to disengage the interface.
LAFORGE: Sorry, Captain, but I can't do that.
PICARD: Damn it, Geordi, you're going to kill yourself.
LAFORGE: If I come back now, my mother and her entire crew will die.

[Laboratory]
PICARD: Doctor, report.
CRUSHER: His neural synapses are overloading. He can't survive this.
PICARD: Geordi, what's happening to you?
LAFORGE: Reverse tractor beam.

[Laboratory]
PICARD: What's happening? Report.
LAFORGE: You're, you're trapped?
PICARD: Is there any way that we can disconnect him?
CRUSHER: If we take him off too abruptly, he'll go into neural shock.
LAFORGE: Caught on the ship?
PICARD: Reduce the input gradually, and still get him out before it's too late.
LAFORGE: Are you saying that you killed the Raman's crew?
DATA: Perhaps we could deceive his neural receptors.
PICARD: Deceive them?
DATA: By feeding them the sensory information recorded from his earlier experiences with the probe.
CRUSHER: We could disconnect the interface and still maintain the input levels.
DATA: We could then lower them in a controlled manner.
LAFORGE: What do you want?
PICARD: Like a decompression tank? Let's try it.
LAFORGE: Then, it was an accident? Captain, I have to take the ship into the lower atmosphere.
PICARD: Explain.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: As I understand it, when the Raman got close to the planet it accidentally picked up some lifeforms that live in the lower atmosphere.

[Laboratory]
LAFORGE: Subspace beings of some kind. Intelligent. When the ship went back into a higher orbit, the beings were trapped.
PICARD: How do you know all this?
LAFORGE: One of them can communicate with me.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: It must have read my thoughts through the probe interface and took the form of my mother to try to talk me into taking the ship closer to the surface.
PICARD: Are these beings

[Laboratory]
PICARD: Responsible for the death of the Raman's crew?
LAFORGE: Yes, but I don't think it was on purpose. They probably tried communicating with them the same way they're communicating with me, by directly accessing their thoughts. It must've been fatal to the crew. I guess the interface is what protected me.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: I have to take them back, Captain. They can't survive so far up in the atmosphere. I'll turn the ship around and come back as soon as I'm

[Laboratory]
PICARD: Geordi, what's happening?
LAFORGE: The atmosphere is getting more turbulent. It's overloading the systems.

[Laboratory]
LAFORGE: Total shield failure in eight seconds.
PICARD: Can we switch the input?
CRUSHER: Almost.

[Raman Auxiliary control]
LAFORGE: Shields are failing!

[Laboratory]
CRUSHER: Switching inputs.
PICARD: Is it working?
CRUSHER: His vital signs are stabilizing. He's going to make it.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. We have succeeded in disengaging Mister La Forge from the interface and are en route to Starbase four nine five.

[Ready room]
PICARD: You disobeyed my direct order. You put yourself in grave danger. I am not happy.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. I take complete responsibility. Data was only
PICARD: I will deal with Mister Data at another time. Meanwhile, I will have to write this incident into your permanent record.
LAFORGE: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Dismissed. Geordi? I'm very sorry that you didn't find your mother.
LAFORGE: Thank you, sir. You know, it was funny. When I was down there, it was so real. I felt like I had a chance to say goodbye.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come.
TROI: How are you doing?
RIKER: I'm all right.
TROI: The crew's pretty shaken up. I'm arranging a memorial. I think you should be the one to deliver the eulogy.
RIKER: I think you'd be better at something like that. Or Beverly. She knew him the longest.
TROI: I know it's not going to be easy, but I think it's important that we face up to what's happened. You're in command now. The crew's looking to you for guidance.
RIKER: You don't understand. I can't give the eulogy because I won't be at the service.
TROI: A memorial service helps to give everyone a sense of completion. Helps them begin the healing process.
RIKER: That's exactly the point. I don't want to heal.
TROI: Will.
RIKER: I've an open wound, right here. It hurts like hell. I don't want it to get better, and I don't want to pretend that everything's all right.
TROI: I know you're angry.
RIKER: You're damn right! And I intend to stay angry until I find whoever's responsible for the Captain's death.
TROI: That's pretty selfish of you. Do you think you're the only one in pain? Do you think you have the monopoly on loss? Well, let me tell you something. We're all hurting, and we're all angry. And whether you like it or not, you have a responsibility to this crew, and you can't just indulge your personal desire for revenge.
RIKER: That is enough, Counselor. Deanna. I'm sorry. This is not about revenge. This is about justice. The Captain died in a bar fight for nothing. Somebody has to answer for that. Then I can mourn.

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander, I am receiving a transmission from Admiral Chekote at Starbase two twenty seven.
RIKER: I'll take it in the Ready room.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Barradas Three is the only class M planet in this system, and it is listed as unpopulated. However, sensors have detected intermittent energy signals emanating from its surface.
RIKER: What's the source?
LAFORGE: The signals are difficult to localize, but they could be emissions from some kind of power converter.
WORF: Which could indicate a base or a ship.
RIKER: What else do we know about Barradas Three?
DATA: The planet was used as an outpost for the Debrune approximately two thousand years ago. The Federation's Archeological survey has catalogd numerous ruins on the surface.
RIKER: Mister Worf, I'd like a security detail to accompany the away team to the surface. I'll lead the team. Geordi, you're with me. Mister Data, you have the Bridge.
DATA: Aye, sir. Commander, as Acting First Officer, I must question your decision to accompany the away team. If Captain Picard were here
RIKER: He's not.
DATA: I realize that, sir. But if he were, and he wanted to lead an away team, you would tell him that the Captain's place is
RIKER: On the Bridge. Not this time.

[Ruins]
RIKER: I'm going to head for those trees over there. If I can get there, we might be able to set up a crossfire.
DATA: Data to away team. Please respond.
LAFORGE: Data, we've been attacked.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We've got one casualty and Commander Riker has been taken captive.

[Ruins]
WORF: Sir, the mercenaries have beamed away. They must have a base or a ship nearby. Can the sensors locate anything?

[Observation lounge]
DATA: Starfleet Intelligence confirms that a ship matching this configuration has been linked to raids on several other planets in this sector. For the short time it was within our visual range, we were able to take sensor readings of the mercenary vessel. It appears to be encased in an energy absorbing material. Although we can see the ship, this energy sheath renders it virtually undetectable to our long range sensors.
TROI: There must be some way we can track it.
LAFORGE: Data, I know this is a long shot, but if I remodulate the long range sensor array, I might be able to make it sensitive enough to detect the ship.
DATA: Without a full compositional analysis of the energy sheath, the chances of finding the correct remodulation sequence are remote.
WORF: Sir, they have taken Commander Riker. We must do something. We cannot just sit here.
DATA: On the contrary, Lieutenant. That is precisely what we must do. Since there are no viable alternatives, we will return to the surface and attempt to determine what these mercenaries are doing on this planet. An investigation might reveal some indication of their purpose. Please notify me when you have assembled your search teams. Dismissed.

[Ruins]
WORF: The search teams have reported in. They found several archeological sites. Each one has been looted.
LAFORGE: It's possible that the microcrystalline damage I found in these indentations was the result of some kind of high energy transporter beam but I still don't understand. There's nothing here that's particularly valuable. Why would anyone want to steal any of these things?
DATA: Perhaps these artifacts have a special value to the Romulans.
WORF: The Romulans?
DATA: These structures were built by the Debrune. That race is an ancient offshoot of the Romulans. The ruins on the planet where Captain Picard was killed were also Romulan in origin.
WORF: The leader of the group that attacked us was Romulan. Perhaps they are controlling the mercenaries.
DATA: The question remains, why are they stealing these artifacts?

[Bridge]
DATA: Commander. Are you all right?

[Bridge]
DATA: That is impossible, sir. The ship you are on has violated a Federation outpost. It is my duty to stop it.
RIKER: I'm your commanding officer. I'm giving you a direct order. Understood?
DATA: Commander, if you could explain

[Bridge]
WORF: Commander, we are receiving some kind of signal from the mercenary ship. These are Commander Riker's access codes. He is attempting to shut down our shields.
TROI: That doesn't make any sense. He knows those codes would have been changed as soon as he was captured.
DATA: That is correct, Counselor. He does know. Mister Worf, prepare to drop the shields.
WORF: Sir, we would be totally defenseless.
DATA: I am aware of that.
WORF: Sir, as soon as they see
DATA: Mister Worf, that is an order.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
DATA: Lieutenant, I am dissatisfied with your performance as First Officer.
WORF: May I ask in what way?
DATA: You continually question my orders in front of the crew. I do not believe this is appropriate behavior.
WORF: With all due respect, sir, I have always felt free to voice my opinions even when they differ from those of Captain Picard or Commander Riker.
DATA: That is true. But in those situations, you were acting as Head of Security, not as First Officer. The primary role of the second in command is to carry out the decisions of the Captain in this case, me.
WORF: But is it not my duty to offer you alternatives?
DATA: Yes. But once I have made a decision, it is your job to carry it out regardless of how you may personally feel. Any further objections should be given to me in private, not in front of the crew. I do not recall Commander Riker ever publicly showing irritation with his Captain as you did a moment ago.
WORF: No, sir.
DATA: If you do not feel capable of carrying out this role, I will assign it to Commander La Forge and return you to Tactical. I would not enter it into your record as a reprimand, simply as a transfer.
WORF: I would prefer to remain at my current post.
DATA: Then I expect you to conform to the guidelines I have laid out.
WORF: Aye, sir.
DATA: Dismissed. Mister Worf, I am sorry if I have ended our friendship.
WORF: Sir, it is I who has jeopardized our friendship, not you. If you will overlook this incident, I would like to continue to consider you my friend.
DATA: I would like that as well.
WORF: Thank you, sir.

[Picard's room]
RIKER: Good to see you, too.
PICARD: I've had some unpleasant surprises. Will, this isn't a good idea. Baran might grow suspicious.
RIKER: As a matter of fact, it was Baran who sent me here. He told me to pretend to be friendly with you and help you organize a mutiny, so he can determine who your supporters in the crew and then eliminate them.
PICARD: What a tangled web we weave. I have difficulty remembering whose side I'm on. So, what have you been able to find out?
RIKER: When we reach the Hyralan Sector, we're supposed to rendezvous with a Klingon transport ship. I'm not sure, but I think they may be delivering another of the Romulan artifacts to us.
PICARD: A second artifact? Oh, by the way, that first artifacts is not Romulan. It's Vulcan.
RIKER: Vulcan?
PICARD: I have been looking over the glyphs and pictograms from the Calder Two artifact. And although I don't have enough data to translate all the inscriptions, the alphabet and symbology is much more consistent with early Vulcan than Romulan.
RIKER: Do these artifacts have some religious or cultural significance, something that would make them valuable enough to kill for?
PICARD: I don't know. If I could just get access to the Enterprise computer just for a few moments. So, what will Baran do once he's obtained the second artifact?
RIKER: You're supposed to verify its authenticity, and then I'm supposed to kill you, and I take your place.
PICARD: Will, you always seem to be after my job. Well, as soon as Baran feels that I've outlived my usefulness, he can kill me simply by using the neural servo. So, I think we had better start planning a mutiny.

[Observation lounge]
TROI: I'm sure the health and safety inspection won't last much longer. And in the meantime, I'm really glad that we have this opportunity to get to know you. May I ask what business you're in?
DATA: Lieutenant Worf has programmed our replicators to make a very good approximation of Klingon bloodwine. I believe you will find it to your liking.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Once we realized that you were no longer on the mercenary ship, we scanned the surface for your neural implant. We tracked the signal into the caverns.
DATA: What will become of the resonator, sir?
PICARD: Satok has assured me that all three pieces will be destroyed.
DATA: It is unfortunate it cannot be studied. The resonator is a key artifact from a remarkable period of history.
PICARD: Normally, I would be the first one to agree, but perhaps some things best left in the past.
RIKER: What's going to happen to the mercenaries?
PICARD: Oh, they will be detained by the Vulcan authorities for the moment. But they're also facing charges from the Klingons, the Cardassians, the Ferengi, and at least seven other worlds. I don't think we'll be hearing from them for a while. Number One, will you set course for Starbase two twenty seven. I'll join you on the Bridge shortly.
RIKER: Wait a minute. You've been declared dead. You can't give orders around here.
DATA: If we are to adhere to the exact letter of Starfleet regulations, then technically, sir, you have been declared a renegade. In fact, I believe you are facing twelve counts of court martial offenses. You cannot give orders either, sir.
PICARD: That's quite right. And as I'm supposed to be dead, I'll go and get some sleep. And, Mister Data, I suggest that you escort Commander Riker to the brig.
DATA: Aye, sir.
DATA: This way, sir.
RIKER: Data, he was joking. You know that, right? Data?

[Data's quarters]
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 47225.7. Commander La Forge has completed the installlation of our new warp core. We are preparing to test its capabilities.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Something wrong, sir?
PICARD: I just got a message from Starfleet command.
RIKER: Bad news?
PICARD: You could say that. I've been invited to the annual Starfleet Admiral's banquet.
RIKER: My condolences.
PICARD: I've managed to avoid it for the past six years, but now it would seem my luck has run out. I can't think of anything more tedious. Fifty Admirals shaking hands, making dull conversation, uninteresting food, boring speeches.
RIKER: Can't you think of some excuse to get out of it?
PICARD: After six years, Number One, I don't think I have any excuses left.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Warp power at your diskretion, Captain.
PICARD: Acknowledged. Ensign Gates, set course for Starbase two nineteen, warp six. Engage.
PICARD: Engage. Bridge to Engineering. Mister La Forge, why isn't my ship

[Engineering]
PICARD: Moving?
LAFORGE: I'm on it, sir. There's a warp plasma conduit out of alignment, but I think I've got it fixed now. Ready, sir.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Very well. Ensign Gates?
PICARD: Mister La Forge?

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Stand by, Captain.
DATA: Captain, I am taking the warp-coil engines offline.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge. I'm sorry, sir, but we're going to have to reconfigure this plasma conduit. It's going to take at least a couple of hours, sir.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Enter.
TROI: Hello, Data.
DATA: Counselor.
TROI: What are you doing?
DATA: I have been watching Spot sleep. In the past fifteen minutes, he has had twelve muscles spasms, which indicates he was dreaming. I have often wondered what Spot dreams about. His twitching and his rapid breathing would seem to suggest anxiety, but Spot has never seen a mouse or any other form of rodentia. He has never encountered an insect, or been chased by a canine.
TROI: I understand you've had some interesting dreams recently. Geordi was worried about you and he wanted me to check in and see how you were doing.
DATA: That was very thoughtful of him. I've been debating whether or not to initiate another dream sequence.
TROI: Because of the nightmares?
DATA: I have found them to be quite unsettling.
TROI: Data, you shouldn't be afraid of dark imagery in your dreams. It's a natural expression of your unconscious, if you have an unconscious. I'm not really sure how your positronic brain works but if it's anything like ours, then there's part of you that's trying to express itself through your dream state. And I think you should allow yourself to experience it. As Sigmund Freud said, dreams are the royal road to the knowledge of the mind.
DATA: Thank you, Counselor. I believe I will initiate a dream program now.
TROI: Let me know how it goes. Goodnight, Data.
DATA: Goodnight, Counselor. Goodnight, Spot.
DATA: Computer, dim lights.

[Data's quarters]
TROI: Data! Data!
DATA: What is wrong?
TROI: We've been trying to wake you up for the last five minutes.
LAFORGE: When you didn't show up on time in Engineering, I got worried.
DATA: My internal chronometer was supposed to wake me thirty five minutes ago.
WORF: You must have overslept.
DATA: That is not possible. Something is wrong.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I can't find anything wrong with your internal time base. As far as I can tell, your primary systems check out fine.
DATA: I will compare my autonomic logs with the ship's chronometer. Perhaps we have overlooked something.
LAFORGE: You know, Data, there's an awful lot we don't know about your dream program. Maybe it was designed to cause side effects. I mean, for all we know, Doctor Soong might have intended for you to oversleep from time to time. It's part of the human experience.
DATA: It is a possibility. However, I would prefer to make certain there are no anomalies in my neural net.
LAFORGE: You know, I'm curious. What were you dreaming about when we woke you up?
DATA: I have not fully assimilated its impact. I would prefer to study the images further before discussing them.
LAFORGE: Sounds like it must have been pretty strange.
DATA: Strange is not a sufficient adjective to describe the experience.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We've just started it up, Captain. All systems are holding steady.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Ready when you are, sir.
PICARD: Ensign Gates, set a course and engage.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Engineering, report.
DATA: The warp field has collapsed, sir.
LAFORGE: It looks like we've blown the entire power converter, Captain. Impulse engines are down too. We're not going anywhere. But I know just how to fix this. Give me two, three hours, tops.
LAFORGE: Now what?

[Bridge]
RIKER: Talk about going nowhere fast.
PICARD: Mister Worf, open a channel to Starbase two nineteen. Advise Admiral Nakamura I'll be a little later than I thought.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Troi's office]
DATA: Everything seems to remind me of the nightmare. Objects, sounds, smells. And now I have seen elements of the dream in a waking state. I cannot explain it.
TROI: Data, if you were one of my human patients, I might be concerned right now. I'd say you had a waking dream or an hallucination. But you're not human. I think we might be looking at some kind of technological problem.
DATA: I have run three complete self diagnostics. All of my systems are functioning normally. Perhaps Doctor Freud was correct. The knife I dreamed about is the embodiment of my unconscious desire to inflict violence.
TROI: Data, even Freud said, sometimes a cigar is just a cigar. But the bottom line is, I think you're developing an almost obsessive interest in your own inner workings. I'd almost call it the beginnings of a neurosis.
DATA: That is not possible.
TROI: Why not? You've eliminated all the technical explanations. And it makes sense that as your neural net becomes more complex, more human, that you might experience the same kind of psychological complexities as a human.
DATA: Do you really think it is possible?
TROI: Data, you must be the first person who's come into my office and been excited at the prospect of a new neurosis. But yes, I do think it's possible, and I'd like to start counseling you on a regular basis.
DATA: Daily?
TROI: No, we'll start weekly. And as a first step, I'd like you to shut down your dream program until our next session, just to be on the safe side. Give yourself a chance to reflect on this experience.
DATA: Thank you, Counselor. I look forward to our next meeting.
TROI: And Data? Next time, see me before you see Sigmund.

[Turbolift]
TROI: Deck thirty six.
TROI: Hello, Data. Are you all right?
TROI: What are you doing?
DATA: Hold very still, Counselor.
TROI: No!

[Observation lounge]
DATA: I believe I had another waking dream, sir. But this time, I had an uncontrollable urge to eliminate the image I saw.
PICARD: And what you saw was some sort of a mouth on Troi's shoulder?
DATA: Yes, sir. For a reason I cannot explain, I had the need to destroy it.
RIKER: What about me? Did you see one of those mouths on my head as well?
DATA: No, sir. I saw a straw coming out of your head.
PICARD: A straw?
DATA: As I said before, these are all images I originally experienced in my dream program. I do not have a rational explanation for them.
PICARD: Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Captain, we've run every possible diagnostic on Data's positronic net we can think of. We can't find anything wrong. I could run a subpolymer scan, but it would take some time to set up the equipment.
PICARD: Make it so. In the meantime, Mister Data, I'll have to relieve you of duty and confine you to your quarters.
DATA: A sensible precaution, sir.

[Sickbay]
TROI: Data.
CRUSHER: Deanna, you're in Sickbay. It's all right.
TROI: Data.
CRUSHER: He's not here. Just try to relax. This vascular pad has healed the wound, but you've lost a lot of blood so I would like you to lie still for a while.
CRUSHER: That's odd. There shouldn't be any diskoloration after the treatment. This looks like some sort of rash.
TROI: What is it?
CRUSHER: I'm picking up cellular degradation. But it doesn't appear to be related to the lacerations. There's also some kind of residual interphasic signature. Nurse, bring me an interphasic scanner. I want to take a closer look at this.

[Data's quarters]
WORF: Commander. I will have to confiscate your sidearm.
DATA: Of course. May I ask a personal favor?
WORF: Yes.
DATA: Will you take care of Spot for me?
WORF: Your animal?
DATA: I am afraid if I have another waking dream, I might injure him.
WORF: Of course. Spot, come here.
DATA: Unlike a canine, Spot does not respond to verbal commands. Goodbye, Spot. He will need to be fed once a day. He prefers feline supplement number twenty five.
WORF: I understand.
DATA: And he will require water. And you must provide him with a sand box. And you must talk to him. Tell him he is a pretty cat, and a good cat.
WORF: I will feed him.
DATA: Perhaps that will be enough.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Captain, we have a problem. Take a look at this. Her tissue is breaking down on a cellular level and it's spreading. At first I thought it was a rash from the coil brace she was stabbed with, but when I used the interphasic scanner, I found this.
PICARD: What is it?
CRUSHER: The question is, what are they?
CRUSHER: I've tested all the medical staff and I've found them on almost everyone so far. The cellular decay is accelerating in all cases. I haven't found a way to stop it or even slow it down. Looks like you're infected too. The organisms appear to be attached to our epidermal layers with osmotic tendrils. They're tapping directly into the bloodstream. And from what I can tell, they're spreading.

[Observation Lounge]
RIKER: What are we dealing with here? Are these creatures feeding on us?
CRUSHER: Yes, in a very particular way. They appear to be extracting our cellular peptides. It's roughly analogous to the way terran leeches consume hemoglobin. If they're not removed soon, our bodies are going to lose all their cellular cohesion. We'll collapse into nothing but a few pounds of chemicals.
PICARD: All right. Is there any way that we can affect these organisms?
LAFORGE: We've tried EM radiation, subspace fields, thermal protons, nothing's worked. They seem to exist in some sort of interphasic state, just beyond our range of visual and sensor acuity. The only way we can see them is to use an IP scanner. Tricorders can't even pick them up.
RIKER: Do we know where these things came from, Mister Worf?
WORF: I scanned the vicinity with an IP scanner. There is no sign of any similar creatures, or any unusual interphasic activity.
PICARD: What about Mister Data? There must be some connection between his odd behavior and these creatures. Is he infested as well?
CRUSHER: No. I scanned him, but I found nothing.
PICARD: Data attacked Counselor Troi because he saw a mouth on her shoulder. And in that same area that we first saw one of the organisms.
RIKER: Data also saw a straw in my head and then Beverly discovered an organism in the same place.
LAFORGE: Those images are all part of Data's dream. Maybe somehow he's unconsciously perceiving these creatures.
PICARD: Then perhaps it is time that we took a closer look at Mister Data's dreams.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: It is an interesting hypothesis. If I am being affected by these interphasic creatures on an unconscious level, it may also explain my waking dreams, and my subsequent anti-social behavior.
LAFORGE: What we want to do, Data, is link your neural net into the holodeck and have you activate your dream program, so as you dream we can observe the dream images.
PICARD: Perhaps we can learn more about these creatures by interpreting the symbols and images of your dreams.
DATA: I see. The concept is similar to the method of directed dreaming.
PICARD: Exactly. How soon can you have the link ready?
LAFORGE: We'd need about an hour to establish all the interface parameters.
PICARD: Make it so. In the meantime, Mister Data, I suggest that you should prepare for bed.

[Holodeck]
LAFORGE: I think we're ready, Captain. The link is active. The holodeck has been calibrated to Data's neural net.
PICARD: Ready, Mister Data?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Normally, I would wish you pleasant dreams, but in this case, bad dreams would be more helpful.
DATA: I understand, sir. Initiating dream program. Stand by.

[Holodeck - corridor]
PICARD: Let's be very observant. Even the most insignificant image could be a very important symbol.
LAFORGE: Right.
PICARD: Here he comes.
DATA: Hello.
PICARD: Can we speak to Data directly or would that wake him up?
LAFORGE: He should be perceiving us as just another part of his dream. Anything we say to him will be taken in that context.
PICARD: You know, that sounds like a telephone ringer, but I don't see a receiver.

[Holodeck]
DATA: Geordi.
LAFORGE: Yes, Data.
DATA: You must adjust my positronic subprocessor to emit an interphasic pulse.
PICARD: Data, what's going on?
DATA: The workmen in my dreams represent the organisms which are trying to demolish the ship. The incessant ringing of the telephone, Freud's cautions at the other end, were warnings of the dangers around us.
PICARD: What about the shrieking noises that you made?
DATA: My positronic subprocessor detected high frequency interphasic signatures from the organisms, which were symbolically represented in my dreams by a high shriek.
PICARD: When you made those noises, the workmen reacted in pain.
DATA: That is why I have asked Geordi to adjust my subprocessor. If I can produce a high frequency interphasic pulse, it may have a similar effect on the creatures.
LAFORGE: We're ready.
PICARD: Picard to Sickbay. Beverly, we're going to be sweeping the ship with a high frequency IP pulse. Will you monitor the creatures for any response?
CRUSHER: Understood.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: It's working, Captain.

[Holodeck]
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. The creatures infesting the Enterprise have been completely eliminated. We believe the infestation originated within the warp core we obtained on Starbase eighty four.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: This conduit was manufactured on Thanatos Seven using a new interphasic fusion process. We think it was that process which attracted the organisms to the conduit where they lay dormant until we activated the warp core. That's also why we couldn't get the core online. The creatures were disrupting the plasma flow.
PICARD: How long before we have warp power again?
LAFORGE: Well, we're going to have to manufacture a new conduit. That's at least six hours work.
PICARD: Six hour? The banquet will be completely over by then. That's very unfortunate.
LAFORGE: I can try and speed things up a bit.
PICARD: No, no, no. I wouldn't want to sacrifice the safety of the ship.
LAFORGE: Understood, sir.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Enter.
DATA: Counselor. I did not have a chance to apologize for my actions.
TROI: Data, don't worry about it. Geordi explained everything to me. It wasn't your fault. But somehow I thought turnabout would be fair play, so I made us a little something to snack on.
DATA: I wonder, what would Doctor Freud say about the symbolism of devouring oneself?
TROI: Data, sometimes a cake is just a cake.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: She's not responding to cortical stimulation. I'm not sure what else I can do.
TROI: I don't understand. She was fine just yesterday.
CRUSHER: It's so strange. It's almost as if her brain has shut itself down.
PICARD: Is there a physiological cause?
CRUSHER: I'm running a subneural scan. As far as I can see there's no tissue damage, no neurochemical imbalance, no sign of infection, nothing.
PICARD: Yet her neural activity is practically non-existent.
CRUSHER: The only exception is in the paracortex. Activity there is almost off the scale.
TROI: The paracortex is the Betazoid telepathic lobe. She communicated with Maques telepathically just before she fell.
PICARD: Might there be some side effect of Cairn telepathy of which we're unaware?
CRUSHER: It's a possibility.
PICARD: I think it's time that you and I had a talk with Maques.

[Crusher's office]
TROI: He communicated so much to me that at first it was just a jumble of images.
CRUSHER: Have you been able to sort any of it out?
TROI: I think so. During his telepathic contact with my mother, Maques sensed what he calls a dark place. He tried to tell me about it before, in my office, and I misunderstood. I thought he was talking about thoughts my mother was keeping private, but what he meant was that there was something happening in her met conscious mind.
CRUSHER: Metaconscious?
TROI: It's a part of the Betazoid psyche. It's a kind of filtering mechanism that protects us from psychic trauma.
PICARD: Is Maques suggesting that your mother's metaconscious has been somehow damaged?
TROI: He feels that whatever is wrong with her is centerd there. If he's right it may mean that she's suffered some kind of trauma that her metaconscious just can't tolerate.
CRUSHER: Has your mother mentioned anything that happened to her lately, something that might have been traumatic for her?
TROI: No. Nothing.
CRUSHER: Maques could be wrong about this. There's still a chance that a subneural scan might be able to pinpoint an physiological cause for your mother's condition, something that I might be able to treat. The results won't be in until morning. Maybe we should all try and get some rest.
TROI: I'd like to stay here with her. I'm going to try to contact her telepathically.
CRUSHER: All right.

[Sickbay]
TROI: No!

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Come in.
PICARD: Counselor.
TROI: Hello, Captain.
PICARD: I've just come from Sickbay. Doctor Crusher feels that your mother's condition is worsening. Her neural foundations are getting weaker. Have you had any luck here?
TROI: No, nothing. I've gone through all her belongings, read her journal from the last five years, and other than the fact that I'm not married yet, nothing bad seems to have happened to her.
PICARD: Is this your Father?
TROI: Yes.
PICARD: He had a kind face.
TROI: I remember when he died, my mother had to go through all his things and pack them away. I was seven. I remember thinking how mad he'd be when he came home and saw what she'd done. I didn't understand he wasn't coming back.
PICARD: Deanna, your mother might still come out of this.
TROI: If we can't figure out what's wrong with her, Captain, I don't think she will. But I don't know what else to do. I've talked with Mister Homn, who's known her for years. I've checked her medical records. I've made enquiries to the government on Betazed, I've contacted her closest friends. If she's been through some kind of psychic trauma, there's just no evidence of it.
PICARD: You said you'd reviewed her journals for the past five years. Maybe we should go further back.
TROI: That's a lot to review. My mother's kept a journal since before she was married.
PICARD: Then let's start at the beginning. The first entry seems to be stardate 30620.1.
TROI: That's the year they were married.
PICARD: That's odd. There's a seven year gap.
TROI: It starts about a year after the wedding.
PICARD: And if I'm not mistaken, it ends a few months after your birth.
TROI: My mother's so diligent about her journal. why would she have stopped making entries for so long?
PICARD: She didn't. The files were deleted, by your mother, almost thirty years ago.
TROI: I don't understand any of this. Captain, I have to go back inside my mother's mind. It's the only way we're ever going to get any answers.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Thank you. Deanna, you understand that if your paracortical readings go too high again, I'm going to tell Maques to sever the connection.
TROI: I know.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: This morning she was fifteen minutes late. That's the third time this week. Jean-Luc, you don't have the slightest idea what I'm talking about, do you.
PICARD: No. I'm really sorry. I don't.
CRUSHER: I've been telling you about Nurse Ogawa and Ensign Markson for the last fifteen minutes.
PICARD: You have? I'm really sorry.
CRUSHER: Are you worried about this mission with the Kes?
PICARD: Not worried exactly. This notion of admitting half of their planet to the Federation while leaving the other half out.
CRUSHER: First of all, the Kes are not half the planet, they're nearly three quarters of it. And the Prytt are not being left out. They themselves simply don't want to have contact with anyone from the outside. not the Federation or anyone else.
PICARD: Every member of the Federation entered as a unified world, and that unity said something about them. That they had resolved certain social and political differences and they were now ready to become part of a larger community.
CRUSHER: By all indications, the Kes are a very unified, very progressive people.
PICARD: But the Prytt are not. They are reclusive to the point of xenophobia.
CRUSHER: Well, think about Earth. What if one of the old nation states, say Australia, had decided not to join the World Government in twenty one fifty? Would that have disqualified us as a Federation member?
PICARD: That analogy is not exactly
RIKER: Riker to Captain.
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We've received word from Ambassador Mauric. He's ready to see you and Doctor Crusher.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Inform him we're on our way. Thank you for breakfast.
CRUSHER: Wait until tomorrow. I have something very special planned. It's a Vulcan dish. That's all I'll say.

[Transporter room]
DATA: There is nothing wrong with the transporter. I have run a complete diagnostic of all the targeting components.
RIKER: Then what happened to the Captain and Doctor Crusher?
WORF: Commander. The Transporter sensor log shows an unusual concentration of antigraviton particles in the emitter coil.
DATA: A concentration of antigraviton particles suggests a tractor beam. It might have deflected the transporter beam to a different set of coordinates.
RIKER: Is there a way to locate those coordinates?
DATA: The tractor beam originated somewhere in the Prytt Alliance.
WORF: Why does the Prytt want Captain Picard and Doctor Crusher?
RIKER: I don't know. And it's not going to be easy to find out. The Prytt have consistently refused all outside contact. We're going to have to work through the Kes. Contact Ambassador Mauric. Tell him I want a meeting right now.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Cell]
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: What?
PICARD: You're staring at me.
CRUSHER: I was just thinking about how to get out of here.
PICARD: There may be a structural flaw that would allow us to escape.
CRUSHER: Right.
PICARD: Beverly, the important thing during any confinement is to think positively and not give up hope. There is a way out of every box, there is a solution to every puzzle. It's just a matter of finding it.
PICARD: Damn.
CRUSHER: Well, at least this means we won't starve to death.
PICARD: It means they plan on keeping us here for a while.
CRUSHER: I'm beginning to think negatively, Jean-Luc.
CRUSHER: My tricorder!
PICARD: Does it work?
CRUSHER: Yes. Except something's been added to the main directory.
PICARD: It's a map.
CRUSHER: An escape route. That guard must be working for the Kes.
PICARD: Possibly. Or it could be part of a very carefully laid trap.
CRUSHER: If you ask me, I'd like to take my chances out there.
PICARD: Agreed. Is there a way to open the cell door?
CRUSHER: Yes, the code's been entered.

[Cave]
PICARD: There must be a lava flow or a underground hot spring somewhere near here.
CRUSHER: It's a lava flow. It's about thirty meters below us. It says we should go this way. I smell gas.
CRUSHER: This whole chamber is filled with pockets of a methanogenic compound.
PICARD: Can we get through it?
CRUSHER: I think so.
PICARD: What did you say?
CRUSHER: I didn't say anything. There might be a fairly regular pattern to these eruptions. We should be able to navigate out way through them if we're careful.
PICARD: Say when.
CRUSHER: Now.
PICARD: The eruptions have stopped.
CRUSHER: The gas is building up!

[Tunnel]
PICARD: There's no way out of here.
CRUSHER: Maybe we took a wrong turn.
CRUSHER: So am I.
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: I'm thirsty too.
PICARD: I didn't say anything about being thirsty.
CRUSHER: I heard you. You said, I'm very thirsty.
PICARD: I was thinking about it, but I didn't say anything.
CRUSHER: You were thinking it?
PICARD: The transceivers. Lorin said that they would align themselves to our psi-wave patterns.
CRUSHER: The implants must be transmitting our thoughts. What am I thinking?
PICARD: I don't know.
CRUSHER: I can't hear your thoughts, either. Maybe it was a fluke.
PICARD: Well, right now we have more immediate concerns. Does your map show us a way out of here?
CRUSHER: Yes, we need to go up.

[Cavern]
CRUSHER: There's a ledge about thirty meters up. That should lead to another tunnel that connects up to the surface.
PICARD: Right.
PICARD: I heard that. They were not words exactly. A sudden sense of fear. A sense of fear of heights.
CRUSHER: So much for that being a fluke.
PICARD: It was a strange sensation. Suddenly having these thoughts appear in my mind.
CRUSHER: If you sensed a fear of heights, you sensed pretty accurately.
PICARD: Come on, you've done this before. It's just like on a holodeck. One step at a time, just climbing steadily and slowly.
CRUSHER: Right.

[Hillside]
CRUSHER: Let's go.
PICARD: I'm all right.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Mauric is determined to take his protest to the Federation Council, but I don't think he'll get very far.
PICARD: I tend to agree, Number One.
RIKER: Did I miss something?
PICARD: Of course. Of course. You're absolutely right.

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: That was wonderful.
PICARD: My pleasure.
CRUSHER: Don't get me wrong, Jean-Luc, but I'm glad we're not joined at the hip anymore.
PICARD: So, were you getting tired of my company?
CRUSHER: Just tired of bumping into you every thirty seconds. I was beginning to feel as if you were part of my uniform.
PICARD: To freedom.
CRUSHER: Freedom. Penny for your thoughts?
PICARD: I was just thinking that as distracting as it was, I was beginning to get used to hearing your thoughts and I find that I miss it.
CRUSHER: So do I. It was very intimate. You know, last night I couldn't sleep.
PICARD: Oh?
CRUSHER: I was awake for several hours. And thanks to the implants, I got to hear some very interesting dreams of yours.
PICARD: A man can't be held responsible for what his mind does while he's asleep.
CRUSHER: What about when he's awake?
PICARD: So now that we've had this unique experience, what do we do?
CRUSHER: What do you mean?
PICARD: You know exactly what I mean.
CRUSHER: No, I don't. The implant's been removed, remember?
PICARD: Now that we know how each of us feels, perhaps we should not be afraid to explore those feelings.
CRUSHER: Or perhaps we should be afraid. I think I should be going now.
CRUSHER: Goodnight.
PICARD: Goodnight.

[La Forge's quarters]
DATA: Geordi?
LAFORGE: In here, Data.
LAFORGE: Got her now. She's trapped. Come on out of there, you. Hey, don't you spit at me.
DATA: Why is Spot under the bed?
LAFORGE: Probably because she knows if I catch her, I'm going to kill her.
DATA: Has Spot been misbehaving?
LAFORGE: So far she's broken a vase, a teapot, she's ruined one of my chairs using it as a scratch post, and she's coughing hairballs up all over my carpet.
DATA: These incidents are common to cat owners. When you borrowed Spot, you said you wanted to experience the full range of feline behavior before getting a cat yourself.
LAFORGE: Yeah, well, I'm not ready. You can take her back with my blessings. Go ahead, call her.
DATA: Spot does not respond to verbal commands.
LAFORGE: She won't come when you call her? Data, have you ever considered training this cat?
DATA: I never found it to be necessary.
LAFORGE: Necessary? Data, the cat is out of control. Half the time I wasn't sure if she was going to lick me or scratch my face off.
DATA: I have never experienced this kind of behavior in Spot. Although she does have the unfortunate habit of jumping on my computer console when I am working.
LAFORGE: She needs training.
RIKER: Riker to senior staff. Please report to the Observation lounge. Mission briefing in ten minutes.
LAFORGE: Right, we have to get her out of here. I'll scare her. You grab her when she comes out, okay?
DATA: I do not think it would be wise to startle her.
LAFORGE: Ready? Ow!
LAFORGE: Training. Definitely.
PICARD: Captain's log, Stardate 47310.2. We're investigating the disappearance of the Medical Transport Fleming somewhere in the Hekaras Corridor. Our search is complicated by the unique properties of this particular region of space.

[Observation lounge]
RIKER: The Fleming's last contact with Starfleet was four days ago. According to them, there was nothing out of the ordinary when they entered the Corridor.
PICARD: Data.
DATA: The unusually intense tetryon fields in this sector pose a severe navigational hazard to warp driven vessels. The Hekaras Corridor is the only route through the area which is free of tetryon fields. Ships traveling at warp must use the Corridor to ensure safe passage through the region.
PICARD: How long will it take to complete a level one search?
DATA: At least two days, sir. The Corridor is over twelve light years long, and the surrounding tetryon interference will limit our sensor range.
WORF: Could we send out reconnaissance probes to supplement the sensors?
LAFORGE: They won't be very effective. The interference will make it difficult to maintain contact with the probes. The best we can do is to increase sensor efficiency. We've installled multiphase buffers on all the sensor modules, Captain. It should help a little.
TROI: Hekaras Two is inhabited, isn't it? Maybe they've had contact with the Fleming.
RIKER: They haven't. I've already spoken to the Hekaran government. According to them, only one ship has passed through the system in the last week. It was a Ferengi trader.
CRUSHER: The Fleming was carrying a supply of rare biomimetic gel, which is very valuable. Is it possible that the Ferengi might have hijacked it?
RIKER: I wouldn't put it past them. I think we should prepare for that contingency.
PICARD: I agreed. All right then. Mister Worf, initiate your search pattern. Let's head in.

[Jefferies tube]
LAFORGE: How's that?
DATA: One moment. The phase buffer is functioning within normal parameters. Sensor efficiency has increased by six point seven percent.
LAFORGE: Six point seven? One of the stages must still be out of alignment. Let's try junction A nine.
DATA: Geordi, I have taken your suggestion regarding Spot.
LAFORGE: Coming down.
DATA: I have begun training her.
LAFORGE: Really?
DATA: Yes. I am studying several new techniques.
DATA: I began with simple conditioned response exercises and followed with environmental enhancement. Next I plan to explore bioconditioning devices.
LAFORGE: Devices?
DATA: Such as sensor nets for behavior modification or biofeedback motivators. Unfortunately, I have been less than successful.
LAFORGE: I've got an idea. How about a phaser? A low stun setting at just the right moment might do the trick.
DATA: Geordi. I cannot stun my cat.
LAFORGE: I was kidding, Data. Let's see what we've got. No, this isn't it, either.
DATA: Clearly there is a misalignment somewhere in this system.
LAFORGE: That's for sure. Well, we've got one more possibility. Junction C twelve.
DATA: I am somewhat concerned that my training efforts will ultimately fail.
LAFORGE: Maybe you're just going about it the wrong way, Data.
DATA: I have consulted numerous animal training manuals. Some of them claim that cats are inherently untrainable.
LAFORGE: I don't believe that for a second. Listen to me. My sister didn't know a thing about animals and she was able to train her cat. How complicated could it be?
DATA: What did she train her cat to do?
LAFORGE: She had that cat jumping into her arms on command.
DATA: Interesting. Perhaps I could modify your sister's techniques to keep Spot from jumping on console. Do you know how she was able to train her cat?
LAFORGE: Well, as I recall, she walked around for two months with a piece of tuna in her blouse.
LAFORGE: I was right. This buffer is out of alignment. Okay, try that.
DATA: Phase alignment is stabilized. However, sensor efficiency has increased by only an additional one point three percent.
LAFORGE: It's not much, but every little bit going to help.
RIKER: Riker to Data.
DATA: Data here.
RIKER: We're picking up a ship ahead on long range sensors. If you and Geordi are through down there, we'd like to have you on the Bridge.
LAFORGE: We're not going to squeeze anything else out of these systems.
DATA: Acknowledged, sir. We are on our way.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: Spot. Spot. Spot, down. Spot, down. Down. Spot. Down. This is down. Down is good. This is up. Up is no.
DATA: One moment. Come in.
LAFORGE: Data. I had another idea that might help boost the power conversion levels. Could you give me a hand?
DATA: I would be happy to.
LAFORGE: Don't tell me you're trying to teach the cat to use the console.
DATA: It is part of her training program. I am teaching Spot to jump down from the desk on my command.
LAFORGE: How's it going?
DATA: I have not been entirely successful.
DATA: Feline supplement number two twenty one.
LAFORGE: Data, that cat definitely has a mind of her own. Maybe she's just not trainable.
DATA: I suppose I must accept that possibility. It may be that Spot lacks the intelligence necessary to learn the appropriate responses to my commands.
LAFORGE: I don't know about Spot, but it seems to me your training is coming along just fine. Come on, let's go.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What's the origin of this debris field?
DATA: Unknown, sir. It does not appear in any Federation charts of the Corridor.
PICARD: Could it be what's left of the Fleming?
DATA: It is a possibility. The debris consists primarily of duranium and polycomposite fragments which suggest a ship. Furthermore, the field contains sufficient mass to account for the Fleming.
PICARD: All right, let's take a closer look. Perhaps we can find something that will give us a more positive identification. Helm, take us through the debris field, ahead slow.
DATA: Captain, I am picking up a small metallic object, approximately three point five meters in diameter.
RIKER: Could be a ship's log recorder, or a probe casing.
DATA: I do not believe so. It is emitting an unusual signal. Captain, it is beginning to generate a verteron field.
PICARD: Shields up! Full reverse. Now!
PICARD: Damage report.
WORF: Warp engines are offline. Shields are down. All subspace systems are inoperative.
RIKER: Just like the Ferengi ship.
DATA: Unidentified ship heading toward us. Two life forms are aboard.
PICARD: On screen.
DATA: Captain, they are initiating their transporter system.
PICARD: Can we get more power to the shields?
WORF: No, sir.
RIKER: All decks, security alert.
DATA: Captain, we are being boarded.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Fleming on long range sensors, approximately zero point three light years away.
PICARD: What's their condition?
RIKER: The vessel appears to be intact. They have shields, but it looks like their subspace systems are out.
PICARD: Very well.

[Ready room]
DATA: I suggest we coast into the rift.
RIKER: Coast?
DATA: We can initiate a brief, high intensity warp pulse from our current position. We should be able to attain sufficient velocity to enter the rift, beam the crew off the Fleming and exit without using our warp engines.
RIKER: All right, let's say we initiate a full power warp pulse. How much time do we need to drop out of warp?
DATA: If we field saturate the nacelles, we should be able to sustain warp speed for approximately two minutes.
RIKER: That doesn't give us much time, and it could get pretty rough in there.
DATA: The timing will be critical.
PICARD: Begin your calculations, Mister Data. We'll go as soon as you're ready.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
DATA: I believe the maximum saturation level should be eighteen point three percent.
LAFORGE: All right. With these parameters, we should be able to maintain warp speed for two minutes eight seconds. I don't think we can get any more than that.
DATA: I agree. But based on the size of the rift, it should give us sufficient time to complete the rescue. Computer, initiate nacelle field saturation.
LAFORGE: How did we miss it, Data?
DATA: I beg your pardon?
LAFORGE: How did we miss the connection between warp drive and the formation of the rift? Between the two of us we've logged thousands of hours on these engines. We're supposed to be warp field experts. We certainly were wrong this time.
DATA: Technically, Geordi, we were not wrong. Serova's theories rested on assumptions which were unprovable.
LAFORGE: Seems to me she managed to prove them pretty conclusively.
DATA: By using methods any reputable scientist would never employ.
LAFORGE: Yeah, she was willing to die to make her point. We should have listened to her more closely, Data.
DATA: We reviewed Serova's research to the best of our abilities, and we were prepared to continue studying the problem. But that was not satisfactory.
LAFORGE: Yeah, I can remember times when I was a little stubborn, trying to get people to believe me when I didn't have enough proof.
DATA: I do not believe that you would have resorted to such extremes.
LAFORGE: But she had to, just to get us to listen. Why was I so resistant?
DATA: Perhaps because her aggressive methods created an adversarial situation.
LAFORGE: Yeah. Maybe I was taking the whole thing personally.
DATA: I do not understand.
LAFORGE: Maybe I was a little threatened. The thought that warp engines might be doing some kind of damage. It's going to take another half an hour for the nacelles to saturate. Will you call me when they're done?

[Bridge]
DATA: Captain, warp pulse calculations are complete. We will be firing the engines at maximum intensity for six point three seconds before disengaging.
WORF: Damage control teams are standing by on all decks.
RIKER: The course to the Fleming is plotted and laid in, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge, whenever you're ready.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Initiating warp pulse now.

[Bridge]
DATA: Engines disengaged. We are now entering the rift. Hull stress is increasing. Eighty three percent of maximum tolerance and rising.
PICARD: How long until we reach the Fleming?
WORF: One minute twenty two seconds.
RIKER: All transporter rooms are standing by.
WORF: Captain, I am picking up power emissions from the Fleming. They may be attempting to initiate their warp drive.
RIKER: They might have been able to repair their engines.
DATA: Captain, if they activate
PICARD: I know, Mister Data. Can we establish communication?
WORF: No, sir. Subspace interference is too high.
PICARD: How long until we reach transporter range?
WORF: Fifty three seconds.
RIKER: I don't think we're going to make it.
WORF: Captain, they have initiated their warp drive.
PICARD: Report.
WORF: Damage on decks six and fourteen. Our structural integrity field is holding.
RIKER: What about the Fleming?
DATA: They are badly damaged, sir. Their life support systems are failing.
RIKER: All transporter rooms, prepare emergency evacuation procedures.
DATA: Captain, when the Fleming activated their warp drive, the rift expanded by two point three percent. We no longer have sufficient momentum to escape.
DATA: Distortion wave intensity has increased by a factor of ten.
WORF: We are within transporter range of the Fleming, sir. Commencing evacuation procedures.
DATA: Distortion waves occurring every fifty nine seconds. Hull stress is nearing maximum tolerance.
RIKER: Data, what if we forced an EPS discharge through the impulse reactor. Would that be enough to get us out of here?
DATA: I do not believe so, sir, and the resulting explosion would likely destroy the saucer section in the process.
LAFORGE: Captain

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We might be able to get out of here without using the warp engines.
RIKER: How, Geordi?
LAFORGE: When was the last time you went surfing, Commander?

[Bridge]
PICARD: A distortion wave.
LAFORGE: Exactly, Captain. If can phase match our deflector shield

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: To the EM variance of the distortion wave, when the next one hits we'll be pulled along with it.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We could ride it through the rift and then break away once we're clear. That is, if we survive the ride.
PICARD: Is everyone off the Fleming?
WORF: The last of the crew has been beamed aboard, sir.
PICARD: All right, Mister La Forge, get us out of here.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. Phase matching the deflectors shield now.

[Bridge]
DATA: The next distortion wave will impact in fourteen seconds.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Matching phases. Prepare to engage the deflector shield on my mark.
DATA: Ten seconds.
LAFORGE: And mark.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Engage deflector shield. Full power.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We lost it.

[Engineering]
DATA: We were unable to maintain phase match with the distortion wave, sir.
PICARD: What went wrong, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: The speed differential was too high, Captain.
DATA: Another distortion wave approaching. Impact in twenty six seconds.
RIKER: Our hull stress is already critical. We can't handle many more jolts like that.
DATA: Captain, I suggest we take the ship to full impulse. If we can attain sufficient speed, it will lessen the shock when the wave hits.
PICARD: Helm, full impulse. Head us out of the rift. Mister Worf, channel all available power to the structural integrity fields.
WORF: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Stand by deflector shield.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We're ready, Captain.

[Bridge]
DATA: Distortion wave impact in five seconds.
PICARD: Engage deflector shield, now.
DATA: We are now within the distortion wave. Hull stresses have exceeded maximum tolerance.
WORF: Structural integrity fields are failing on decks ten through sixteen. Switching to backups.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We're separating from the distortion wave. I'm attempting to compensate.

[Bridge]
PICARD: How much longer until we clear the rift?
DATA: Approximately twelve seconds, sir. Hull stresses one hundred twenty percent above tolerance.
WORF: A structural breach is imminent.
DATA: We have cleared the rift, sir. Hull stress has returned to normal.
PICARD: Cancel red alert.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 47314.5. We have been continuing our research, while the Federation Council studies our preliminary reports on the subspace rift. It now appears certain that what we've seen here will have repercussions for many years to come.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Data, I'm almost finished reconfiguring the phaser banks. We should be able to start drilling in about an hour.
DATA: Inform me when you are ready.
LAFORGE: What is it you're doing over there?
DATA: I am attempting to ascertain whether Doctor Tainer's story is true.
LAFORGE: Don't you believe her?
DATA: I neither believe nor doubt. I am simply attempting to verify her assertions.
LAFORGE: Well, what have you turned up so far?
DATA: The Registrar's Office on Mavala Four cannot confirm whether Doctor Soong was married there. Apparently many of the documents were lost when the government was overthrown.
LAFORGE: What's that you're looking at?
DATA: I am checking passenger manifests to see if they went to Mavala during the period in question. O'Donnell, Juliana. Soong, Noonian. They were both passengers on a transport which traveled from Omicron Theta to Mavala and returned four days later.
LAFORGE: That sure fits with her story.
DATA: Still, the fact that they went to Mavala does not prove they were married there.
LAFORGE: You know, Data, it almost seems to me like you're trying to prove that Doctor Tainer wasn't telling the truth.
DATA: Not at all. I am merely unable to reconcile her story with the fact that my father never mentioned her to me.
LAFORGE: Well, she did leave him. Maybe she broke his heart. Maybe he just didn't want to talk about her. Let me ask you this. Doctor Soong created an emotion chip. Didn't Lore tell you that chip also contained memories, memories Soong wanted you to have?
DATA: Yes. It is possible that those are memories of my childhood. And of Mrs Soong.
LAFORGE: When you think about it, why would she want to lie? Why would anybody want to pretend to be your mother?
DATA: I can think of no motive for such a pretense.
LAFORGE: And I can understand that this might all be a little disconcerting for you, Data. It came out of the blue, and it doesn't fit into your logical processors.
DATA: That is true.
LAFORGE: But that's life, Data. Part of being human is learning how to deal with the unexpected. To risk new experiences even when they don't fit into your preconceptions.
DATA: I admit I am finding it difficult to accept the possibility of a past about which I know nothing. But it is also true that I am curious to learn more about it.

[Bridge]
WORF: Terminating the beam.

[Engineering]
RIKER: Doctor Tainer, we'll meet you in transporter room two.
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Data, why do you want to look at Doctor Tainer's medical records? Is something wrong with her?
DATA: I was hoping you would be able to determine that from her transporter trace pattern.
CRUSHER: Well, probably I could, but ordinarily I don't check somebody's medical status without a good reason.
DATA: Doctor, I would ask that you not require me to be more specific. I assure you, I have a good reason for asking.
CRUSHER: All right, Data. At first glance I see nothing wrong with her. Except for a mild case of hypertension, which is normal for a woman her age.
DATA: I see.
CRUSHER: Maybe you should tell me what her symptoms are.
DATA: She has not complained of any discomfort.
CRUSHER: Then why do you want to see her medical records?
DATA: Because I have reason to believe she is not who she claims to be.
RIKER: Bridge to Data.
DATA: Go ahead, sir.
RIKER: There's been a cave-in in one of the magma pockets. You're needed in transporter room two.
DATA: On my way. Excuse me, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: Basically she's a Soong-type android, except everything about her is designed to fool you into thinking she's human.
CRUSHER: She's got tear ducts, sweat glands, even veins and capillaries underneath her skin.
RIKER: Why does the scanner read her as a human?
CRUSHER: Because she has a feedback processor designed to send out a false bio-signal.
LAFORGE: It's part of her aging program. Not only does she age in appearance like Data, her vital signs change too.
CRUSHER: What I can't figure out is why she lost consciousness. As far as I can see, everything is fine. She should be awake.
DATA: Check her positronic matrix. There may be a cascade anomaly.
RIKER: You said you knew she was an android. How?
DATA: The first indication occurred when we were digging. I saw her perform complex calculations without the assistance of the computer.
RIKER: That could have just meant she was good at math.
DATA: That is true, but it was enough to get my attention. Later, I noticed something odd about the way she blinked her eyes. The intervals between blinks were governed by the Fourier system, the same mathematical formula my father used to give my blinking pattern the appearance of randomness.
RIKER: Only you could have noticed something like that.
DATA: Then there was the concert in Ten Forward.
RIKER: What about it?
DATA: We had practiced the piece, and I noticed that she played it the same way during the performance. Every pitch, every intonation, was exactly the same. Only an artificial life form could have done that.
RIKER: Does her husband know anything about this?
DATA: I do not believe so. He is on the surface monitoring the plasma infusion.
RIKER: Probably just as well.
LAFORGE: Data, come take a look at this.
DATA: It appears to be an information module. With a holographic interface.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: It seems that I must make a decision. Whether to tell Doctor Tainer that she is an android or to withhold that information from her. I do not know what to do.
CRUSHER: Why was Doctor Soong so adamant that she not be told?
DATA: He seemed certain that if she knew, it would preclude the possibility of her being happy.
PICARD: Data, what do you think?
DATA: I am not certain. I understand why my father felt as he did, but his wishes are not necessarily paramount. I am more concerned with what would be best for her.
CRUSHER: Wouldn't she be better off knowing the truth? Dealing with the reality of her existence?
TROI: I don't think so. She's believed she's human all her life. The truth might be devastating to her.
PICARD: Data, there might come some time in the future when she would find out anyway. Another accident, perhaps. Maybe it would be easier for her if she learned the truth from you.
CRUSHER: I can tell you that if I were in her place, I would rather be told by my son than by some stranger.
DATA: I find I am having difficulty separating what would be best for her from what would be best for me.
TROI: What do you mean?
DATA: If she knew she were an android, we would have something to share. I would no longer be alone in the universe.
TROI: I know how much that means to you, Data, but at the same time, by telling her you're robbing her of the one thing you've wanted all your life. To be human.
PICARD: It's a difficult choice. You must do what you think best, Data. But whatever decision you make, we will support it.

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: Personal log, stardate 47391.2. I am returning from the Bat'leth competition on Forcas Three. The conditions were difficult. Several contenders were maimed. But I was triumphant. I won Champion Standing. I am looking forward to resuming my duties aboard the Enterprise. However, I am anticipating a troubling situation.

[Corridor]
RIKER: It looks like we're going to have to head into to the Argus Array. This is the third time this year it's stopped relaying data. Starfleet's beginning to think it's more than a simple malfunction. I want you to start a long range scan once we get. Lieutenant? Are you listening to me?
WORF: Hmm? Yes, sir.
RIKER: You seem awfully tense for a man who just came back from vacation.
WORF: Today is my birthday.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
DATA: The Array appears to be functioning normally, sir.
RIKER: That can't be right. We were told the Array stopped relaying data six days ago.
DATA: The Array is still transmitting data, sir, but it is no longer sending that information to the Federation. It appears someone has redirected its imaging systems.
PICARD: Where is the information being sent now?
DATA: Sector one nine six five eight, sir. I am unable to access it's main computer, so it is impossible to determine the exact location.
RIKER: What's in that sector?
WORF: It is uninhabited. But there could be a ship or a subspace relay station receiving the data.
RIKER: Captain. I suggest we beam a repair crew aboard the Array. We can begin downloading their imaging logs, find out what the Array's been observing for the past six days.
PICARD: Make it so.
RIKER: Mister Data?

[Ten Forward]
WORF: Excuse me, Counselor. Do you have a moment?
TROI: Of course.
WORF: I have been meaning to speak with you about Alexander.
TROI: Oh?
WORF: It has never been easy for me having Alexander on board. I have always tried to be a good father, to give him guidance, but he seems to have his own mind about some things.
TROI: Most children do.
WORF: I could not have come this far without your help. Alexander looks up to you. At times, I have felt that you are like a mother to him.
TROI: Worf, that's one of the nicest things anyone's ever said to me.
WORF: One time when I thought I was going to die, I asked you to watch over Alexander. I was wondering if you might consider formalizing that arrangement. I want you to be Alexander's Soh-chIm.
TROI: His Soh-chIm?
WORF: You would become his surrogate mother. In case anything ever happened to me, you would be responsible for him.
TROI: I don't know what to say. It's a great honor. So, that would make me your?
WORF: The closest analogy is step-sister.
TROI: That would make my mother your step-mother.
WORF: I had not considered that. It is a risk I am willing to take.
TROI: I accept.
DATA: Lieutenant Worf, please report to Engineering.
WORF: I am on my way.

[Engineering]
DATA: We have analyzed the imaging logs. It appears the Array was reprogrammed to observe several Federation sites.
LAFORGE: This is Deep Space Five. Starbase Forty seven. The Iadara Colony and the Utopia Planitia Shipyards.
PICARD: They're responsible for new starship development.
WORF: Someone is using the Array for covert surveillance of the Federation.
DATA: That is our theory. We believe unauthorized access was made six days ago. The imaging logs from that day show a ship approaching the Array.
WORF: That's a Cardassian ship. Galor Class.
LAFORGE: We're only three light years from Cardassian space. They would have easy access to the Array.
PICARD: Mister Worf, start a long range scan of the region. See if there are any Cardassian ships nearby.
WORF: Aye sir.
LAFORGE: Worf, here's a propulsion analysis of the Cardassian ship. You might try scanning for its energy configuration.
DATA: Lieutenant, are you all right?
WORF: I feel dizzy.
LAFORGE: Worf, you don't look so good. Maybe you ought to go to Sickbay.
WORF: Yes. Yes, perhaps I will.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Any nausea or blurred vision?
WORF: No. However, I did experience some dizziness earlier today at my birthday celebration.
CRUSHER: Sounds like you're having some of the side effects from the concussion. I can give you some vertazine for the dizziness but I'd like you to rest.
WORF: Doctor, perhaps you are thinking of another patient. I have no concussion.
CRUSHER: Worf, you came in here this morning complaining of ringing in your ears. I scanned you. You had a concussion. You don't remember any of this?
WORF: No.
CRUSHER: Temporary memory loss is common for this kind of injury. Do you remember telling me about the Bat'leth tournament? You said that one of the competitors hit you over the head. That's why you lost the match.
WORF: I won that tournament. And I can prove it to you.

[Worf's quarters]
CRUSHER: What's wrong?
WORF: It says ninth place. This is not the same trophy. Someone is playing a trick on me.
CRUSHER: Worf, try to stay calm. Memory loss can be very disorienting.
WORF: The log. I recorded a personal log on my way back to the Enterprise. Computer, access personal logs on Shuttlecraft Curie. Show my log entry for Stardate 47391.2.
WORF: Personal log, stardate 47391.2. I am returning from the Bat'leth competition on Forcas Three. The conditions were difficult. Several contenders were maimed. One of the contenders used an illegal T'gha maneuver against me. The judges chose to ignore it and I was robbed of my rightful standing. I was awarded ninth place. I am looking forward to resuming my duties aboard the En
WORF: I do not understand.
CRUSHER: Worf, I'm sure this is very disturbing for you, but don't worry, your memories will return. The best thing you could do right now is to settle back into your normal routine, but slowly.
WORF: Thank you, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Let me know if you have any more problems with dizziness. I'll give you a hypospray.

[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Doctor Crusher says I am experiencing further memory loss, but my instincts tell me it is more than that. I remember those imaging logs. I could tell you every detail, every word.
TROI: Worf, let's assume for a second you're right, that things did happen as you remember them. Are you saying that everyone's memory on this ship has been altered but yours?
WORF: Enter.
LAFORGE: Counselor. Worf, I wanted you to know that we re-examined the imaging logs. They don't show a Cardassian ship or any evidence that the Array was reprogrammed. From what we can tell, the Array suffered a simple mechanical failure.
WORF: That is not right. I was certain that
TROI: What's wrong?
WORF: Counselor, the painting that Commander Data gave me. It has moved.
TROI: Worf, I hung that painting there. At your birthday party, remember?
WORF: No.
WORF: The painting has changed. Don't you see it?
WORF: Your hair and your clothing, they have changed as well.
LAFORGE: Worf, maybe you should come with me to Sickbay and

[Engineering]
DATA: I am initiating a subspace scan to search for temporal anomalies on or off the ship.
OGAWA: Counselor Troi, please report to Sickbay.
TROI: I'm on my way. Let me know if you find anything.
WORF: Commander, how long have I been married to Counselor Troi?
DATA: Two years, one month and twelve days.
WORF: And when did this relationship begin?
DATA: It is my understanding your romantic affiliation began shortly after you recovered from your spinal injury on stardate 45587. It was six months later that you asked Commander Riker for his formal permission to court Counselor Troi. You felt to do otherwise would be dishonorable.
WORF: And then we mated?
DATA: I am not privy to the exact details of when, where or how your first coupling took place. I could investigate it
WORF: No, that is all right.
DATA: I am detecting no temporal anomalies in this system. Perhaps we should try to pinpoint the exact moment when events became discontinuous. Do you remember the first change?
WORF: I was in Sickbay. Doctor Crusher told me I had a concussion but I do not remember that happening.
DATA: Think back. Are you sure that was the very first change?
WORF: Before. Yes. Yes, I was in Engineering. I felt a wave of dizziness and when I looked up, you and Commander La Forge were on the opposite side of the room. Captain Picard was gone. I thought I had blacked out for a moment and had not observed your movements. And at my birthday party, the cake was chocolate and then it was yellow. And Commander Riker told me Captain Picard was not going to attend, and then suddenly he was there.
DATA: We should try to find the commonalties in these events. Where were the people you were with?
WORF: Everyone was at my birthday party. Then I was with Counselor Troi, then Commander La Forge came in. Geordi. Geordi was present at all three locations. And he was near me in each case just before I noticed the differences. There has to be a connection.
DATA: It is possible. We should speak to Commander La Forge.

[Sickbay]
DATA: Doctor, is Geordi well enough to answer some questions?
OGAWA: Geordi's dead.
DATA: There do not appear to be any unusual readings. Energy residuals from the plasma burns, the beginnings of cellular decomposition. I see nothing that connects these bio-readings to your recent sense of discontinuity.
OGAWA: What about his visor?
DATA: I still see nothing unusual. Perhaps we should activate it.
OGAWA: Hook it up to the diagnostic array and I'll check it out.
DATA: The visor is active.
CRUSHER: Worf, are you alright?
DATA: Have you noticed another discontinuity?
WORF: Doctor Crusher was not here. Doctor Ogawa was.
CRUSHER: Doctor Ogawa?
WORF: My uniform has changed. What is my rank and position?
TROI: You're a Commander and First Officer.
WORF: Are we still married?
TROI: Yes.
DATA: I am detecting a quantum flux in your cellular RNA.
WORF: What does that mean?
DATA: I do not know. I will have to analyze these readings.

[Ready room]
DATA: I have found the quantum flux in Worf's cellular RNA extends to the subatomic level. It is asynchronous with normal matter. In essence, Captain, Mister Worf does not belong in our universe.
RIKER: What?
DATA: All matter in the universe resonates on a quantum level with a unique signature. That signature is constant. It cannot be changed through any known process. It is the basic foundation of existence.
RIKER: Are you saying that Worf's quantum signature is different from ours?
DATA: Yes, sir. I cannot explain it. It is as if he originates from a different quantum universe.
RIKER: Mister Worf, you say the discontinuities started to occur after you returned from a Bat'leth tournament on Forcas Three.
WORF: Yes, sir.
RIKER: Now, I know for a fact that you never attended that tournament and that no shuttlecraft has left the Enterprise for over a month.
WORF: I understand that, but I also clearly remember attending the tournament and returning to the ship in a shuttlecraft.
RIKER: Do you remember the route you took to return?
WORF: Yes.
RIKER: Let's backtrack that course. See if there are any unusual readings or anomalies.
DATA: Aye, sir.
WORF: If I may inquire, sir, how long have you been Captain of the Enterprise?
RIKER: Four years. Ever since Captain Picard was killed in the incident with the Borg. You don't remember any of this, do you?
WORF: I do remember. I just remember differently.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: I believe the quantum fissure we discovered is a fixed point across the space time continuum. A keyhole which intersects many other quantum realities.
TROI: What do you mean, quantum realities?
DATA: For any event, there is an infinite number of possible outcomes. Our choices determine which outcomes will follow. But there is a theory in quantum physics that all possibilities that can happen, do happen in alternate quantum realities.
WORF: And somehow I have been shifting from one reality to another.
DATA: That is correct.
TROI: How did this happen?
DATA: When Worf's shuttlecraft came into contact with the quantum fissure, I believe its warp engines caused a small break in the barriers between quantum realties. Worf was thrown into a state of quantum flux. He immediately shifted into other realities.
CRUSHER: And Geordi's visor somehow triggered that effect?
DATA: Exactly. The visor uses a subspace field pulse. I believe that whenever Geordi came near Worf, the field pulse intensified the quantum flux and pushed Worf into another reality.
WORF: How can we find my original quantum state and return me to it?
WESLEY: We could scan the quantum fissure using a subspace differential pulse. Maybe we could locate the quantum state that shares Worf's signature and find a way to get him back.
DATA: An excellent idea, Lieutenant.

[Worf's quarters]
TROI: Worf. From what I understand, there's a good chance my Worf won't return. I guess it's just hard for me to accept that there's a reality out there where you never loved me.
WORF: Deanna, I have always considered you a close friend. And although I have never seriously considered a romantic relationship, I would not be opposed to the possibility.
TROI: What about our children?
WORF: Children?
TROI: You didn't know?
WORF: When the last shift occurred in Sickbay, we did not have any children.
TROI: We have a little girl, Shannara, she's two years old, and a three year old boy, Eric Christopher.
WORF: What about Alexander?
TROI: Alexander?
WORF: He was my son in another reality.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: I've used a differential pulse to analyze over ten million quantum states within the fissure, but I still haven't found one with your signature. This may take some time, sir.
DATA: Captain, a Bajoran ship is approaching.
RIKER: Red Alert.
WORF: Sir, the Bajorans?
TROI: Ever since the Bajorans overpowered the Cardassian Empire, they've become more and more aggressive.
RIKER: Yesterday they destroyed one of our subspace telescopes because they thought we were using it to spy on them.
WESLEY: They're charging their weapons, sir.
WORF: Shields!
RIKER: Return fire.
WESLEY: They've damaged our power systems, sir. It's caused an energy surge within the subspace pulse. The quantum fissure is beginning to destabilize.
RIKER: Can we disengage the pulse?
WESLEY: Too late, sir.
RIKER: What the hell is happening?
DATA: The barriers between quantum realties are breaking down. Other realties are emerging into our own.
WESLEY: The Bajoran ship is disengaging, sir.
DATA: The rate of quantum incursions is increasing exponentially. At this rate, the sector will be completely filled with Enterprises within three days.
WESLEY: Captain, we're receiving two hundred eighty five thousand hails.
RIKER: I wish I knew what to tell them. Mister Data, can we stop these incursions?
DATA: Perhaps, if we can find the ship which that Commander Worf's quantum signature.
RIKER: How would that help?
DATA: It was Worf's shuttlecraft which traversed the fissure and weakened the barriers between quantum realities. If he re-enters the fissure in his original shuttle, and emits a broad spectrum warp field, it may be enough to seal the fissure and stop additional realities from emerging into our own.
RIKER: What then? How do we get the Enterprises that are already here back to where they belong?
DATA: In theory, the act of sealing the fissure should restore the barriers between quantum states. The ships would return to their own realities.
RIKER: Lieutenant Crusher, send a general hail, all ships.
WESLEY: Aye, sir.
RIKER: This is Captain Riker of the Enterprise. That is, the Enterprise which is indigenous to this universe. We've all encountered a quantum anomaly. We think we have found a way to return all of us to our proper realities, but we need to find that ship which exhibits a certain quantum signature. Our Mister Data will transmit that signature to you now.
RIKER: Anything?
WESLEY: There's too much comm. traffic, sir. It's tough to isolate who's talking to who. Wait a minute. Here it is. Someone's responding.
RIKER: On screen.
PICARD: Captain, it would that we have found the quantum signature you are looking for.
RIKER: Data believes that by sending Worf back through the fissure again, it would return us all to our proper realities.
PICARD: Our Data has said the same thing.
RIKER: We need you to send us your shuttlecraft Curie.
PICARD: We're launching it now.
RIKER: Thank you. It's good to see you again, Captain. It's been a long time.

[Shuttlebay]
RIKER: Did they send the right shuttle?
DATA: Yes, sir. It matches Commander Worf's quantum signature precisely. I have remodulated the shuttle's engines to emit an inverse warp field. You will need to activate the field at the precise moment you enter the fissure.
WORF: Assuming it works, will I find myself near my own ship?
DATA: That is one possibility. However, the uncertainty principle dictates that time is a variable in this equation. You may end up several days before the event or several days after. There is no way to tell.
WORF: I understand.
RIKER: Good luck.

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: Setting course for the fissure.
RIKER: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
WESLEY: Captain, the shuttlecraft is under attack.
RIKER: The Bajorans again.
WESLEY: No, sir. It's one of the Enterprises. They're hailing us.
RIKER: On screen.
RIKER: We won't go back. You don't know what it's like in our universe. The Federation's gone, the Borg is everywhere! We're one of the last ships left. Please, you've got to help us!
RIKER: I'm sorry, there's no choice. If this works, everything will return to
RIKER: No, we won't go back!
WESLEY: Sir, they're firing on the shuttlecraft.
RIKER: Open fire. Try to disable them.
WESLEY: Direct hit. Their shields have collapsed. Their engine core is overloading.
RIKER: What happened?
WESLEY: It looks like the ship had already taken heavy damage. Their warp containment field must have been weak.
RIKER: Probably from fighting with the Borg.
DATA: Captain, Worf is entering the fissure.

[Shuttlecraft]
WORF: Charging primary systems. Initiating inverse warp field.
WORF: Worf to Enterprise.
PICARD: Enterprise here.
WORF: Captain, is everything all right?
PICARD: Yes, Lieutenant. Is there a problem?
WORF: No, I do not believe so, but I will explain when I arrive.
PICARD: How was the Bat'leth tournament?
WORF: It was fine, sir. I won Champion Standing.

[Corridor]
RIKER: So you think this quantum fissure is nothing that we need to worry about?
WORF: No. No, I believe the inverse warp field resealed it.
RIKER: I'm looking forward to reading your report.
RIKER: Something wrong?
WORF: I know what you are planning, sir. I will not be surprised.
RIKER: Surprised? I don't know what you're talking about.
WORF: Of course you don't.

[Worf's quarters]
TROI: Welcome home, Worf. I hope you don't mind, I let myself in. I promised Alexander I'd feed his Dalvin hissing beetle while you were both away.
WORF: So you do not live here?
TROI: What's that supposed to mean?
WORF: It is a long story.
TROI: Happy birthday, Worf. Will wanted to give you a surprise party, but I knew you'd hate it so I talked him out of it.
WORF: Thank you.
TROI: I know Klingons like to be alone on their birthdays. I'm sure you have to meditate, or hit yourself with a pain stick or something.
WORF: Deanna. You do not have to leave.
TROI: Oh?
WORF: I have not had dinner. Would you care to join me?
TROI: I'd love to.
WORF: Champagne.

[Corridor]
RIKER: So, who won the contest?
PICARD: Paul Menegay, a seven year old. He did a most interesting clay sculpture of my head.
RIKER: Was that the orange one with the lumpy skin?
PICARD: Yes. Oh, you'll be interested to know that I've arranged for a Commander Riker Day next month. I'm even considering making an entry myself.
RIKER: Great.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: What's wrong?
RIKER: I think I busted a rib.
CRUSHER: Excuse me. What were you doing?
RIKER: I was doing bat'leth moves with Mister Worf. I jabbed when I should've blocked. He caught me right in the side. It's a good thing we were using sticks instead of the real blades.
CRUSHER: It's broken all right. Give him ten cc's of terakine for the pain.
RIKER: I can't believe how stupid I was.
CRUSHER: You both must have got a little carried away, that's all.
RIKER: No, it was my fault. I got distracted at a crucial moment.
CRUSHER: It can happen to anyone.
RIKER: I knew what I was supposed to do and I didn't do it. If those had real bat'leths I might be dead right now.
CRUSHER: There, all better. Will, it's all right. You made a mistake. No harm done. You'll be better next time.
RIKER: Yeah, maybe.

[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: The scan analysis you asked for.
PICARD: Thank you.
RIKER: Is there something else, sir?
PICARD: Yes, there is. Judge Advocate General's Report. Stardate 36764. Subject, inquiry into mutiny aboard USS Pegasus. Based on testimony from Captain Pressman and other surviving officers, the Judge Advocate believes there is sufficient evidence to conclude that certain members of the crew did mutiny against the captain just prior to the destruction of the Pegasus. Mutiny on a Federation starship? That's shocking. It's unthinkable. And yet you've never mentioned it.
RIKER: No, sir.
PICARD: You know, it wasn't easy to get this record. I had to pull in quite a few favors at Starfleet just to get a look at it. It seems that it was classified by Starfleet Intelligence. So, not only was the Pegasus carrying sensitive equipment which must be allowed to fall into Romulan hands, not only was there a mysterious explosion which seemed to destroy the ship but didn't, but it seems there was a mutiny on board. Now, I've read the official report of the inquiry on that mutiny, but I want to know your version of what happened.
RIKER: I was on the Bridge. The ship was at yellow alert. We were running some tests on the engines. Something went wrong. There was an explosion in Engineering. Heavy casualties. In the midst of this crisis, the First Officer, the Chief of Engineering and most of Bridge crew mutinied against Captain Pressman.
PICARD: Why?
RIKER: They thought he was jeopardizing the ship.
PICARD: And you?
RIKER: I was seven months out of the Academy, my head still ringing with words like duty and honor. When they turned on him, I thought they were a bunch of self-serving, disloyal officers, so I grabbed a phaser and defended my captain. Two or three others joined us, but it was clear by then that the mutineers had most of the crew behind them. We felt a need to get off the ship. There was a running firefight all the way to the escape pod. About five minutes after we left the ship there was an explosion.
PICARD: The Judge Advocate also believes that the surviving officers are deliberately withholding vital information from this inquiry. Further investigation is recommended. Will, there was no further investigation. This report was classified and then it was quietly buried. Why?
RIKER: Sir, may I suggest you take this up with Admiral
PICARD: I'm taking this up with you, Will! The Judge Advocate thought you were participating in a conspiracy to cover up the truth. Now, what the hell is going on here, Will? Why did that mutiny happen? Why is Pressman so determined to find your ship twelve years later?
RIKER: I've said all I can. I am under direct orders from Admiral Pressman not to discuss this, sir.
PICARD: Very well. He's an admiral, I'm a captain. I cannot force you to disobey his orders. Therefore I will have to remain in the dark on this mission. And I will just have to trust that you will not let Pressman put this ship at unnecessary risk. And if I find that that trust has been misplaced, then I will have to re-evaluate the command structure of this ship. Dismissed.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Commander, we've routed the impulse engines through the plasma conduits, but you'll have to watch the intercooler levels. If they get too high, we'll blow the entire relay system.
RIKER: Understood.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: The cloak is online and ready to begin phase sequencing.

[Brig]
PICARD: I've spoken to Fleet Admiral Shanthi. There will be a full inquiry once we reach Starbase two four seven, and that will probably lead to a general court martial of Admiral Pressman and several others at Starfleet Intelligence. Your involvement in this affair is going to be thoroughly investigated, Will. There'll be some hard questions for you to answer.
RIKER: I understand.
PICARD: You made a mistake twelve years ago, but your service since then has earned you a great deal of respect, but this incident may cost you some of that respect.
RIKER: I can't help but feel I should have come forward a long time ago.
PICARD: When the moment came to make a decision, you made the right one. You chose to tell the truth and face the consequences. So long as you can still do that, then you deserve to wear that uniform. And I will still be proud to have you as my First Officer.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Analysis. Mister Data.
DATA: The planet's atmosphere is dissipating, sir. Intense plasmonic reactions are destroying it. The stratosphere is already breaking down. There are turbulent radiation storms across much of its surface. I estimate that the planet will be uninhabitable in less than thirty eight hours.
RIKER: The distress call came in only four days ago. Why would Doctor Rozhenko have waited so long before sending it?
DATA: Atmospheric dissipation is a rare and essentially unpredictable event. When it occurs, it proceeds rapidly. Doctor Rozhenko may not have had sufficient warning.
PICARD: What was that?
DATA: The dissipation effect is generating plasmonic energy bursts.
RIKER: Is there any danger to the ship?
DATA: I do not believe so. However, we may experience intermittent system failures and power surges as a result.
PICARD: Keep an eye on it. Mister Worf, any luck?
WORF: There is still no response to our hails, sir. I am attempting to scan the observation post.
RIKER: He could be hurt. Maybe he can't respond.
WORF: Sensor interference is significant, but the post appears to be intact. Their power grid is still functioning. However, I am reading no life forms within the structure.
RIKER: It's not like him to the post.
PICARD: Especially under these circumstances.
WORF: Captain, I am detecting faint power emissions from a system of caverns near the post. It could be a deflector shield.
RIKER: That can't be native to the planet. The Boraalans don't have anything close to that level of technology.
WORF: Captain, request permission to lead an away team.
PICARD: Very well. But regardless of this planet's immediate situation, we must observe the Prime Directive. I want to minimize the risk of contact with the inhabitants. You will go alone, Mister Worf, and I want to have you surgically altered so that you could pass as a Boraalan.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: You're worried about Nikolai, aren't you?
WORF: Yes.
CRUSHER: Are the two of you close?
WORF: We are brothers.
CRUSHER: You never talk much about him. What's he like?
WORF: Nikolai is older than I. We are not alike. We had many disagreements when we were growing up.
CRUSHER: That's not unusual.
WORF: Nikolai has a mind of his own. He attended Starfleet Academy, but he was unable to follow the rules. He left after one year. But he has many fine qualities. He is brilliant, persuasive. A natural leader.
CRUSHER: Sounds intriguing. I look forward to meeting him.

[Engineering]
WORF: In a pool of water, the road ahead will be filled with good fortune.
LAFORGE: Hang in there, Worf. Give me just a second. There. That should do it.

[Stellar cartography]
DATA: These are the two planets which best match our search criteria. Draygo Four features an unusually large temperate zone. However, it is within three light years of Cardassian space.
CRUSHER: There are constant border disputes in that sector.
DATA: The alternative is Vacca Six. It is located in the Cabral sector.
CRUSHER: That's pretty isolated.
DATA: It offers a less hospitable climate than the Boraalans are accustomed to. However, it would still appear to be the better choice. Do you disagree, Doctor?
CRUSHER: No, Data, you're right. It's just that the enormity of what we're doing is overwhelming. We are deciding the future of a species.
DATA: It is a formidable responsibility.
CRUSHER: There are so many questions we don't have answers to. What if the climate is so different that it affects them in a way that we can't anticipate? How do we even know they'll be able to survive? And if they do, how will their society evolve and what impact will it have on the Vaccan system? We have no idea what this decision will mean to their future.
DATA: Doctor, I do not believe we can offer any guarantees. We can simply make the best choice we have at the moment.
CRUSHER: All right, Data. Vacca Six it is.
DATA: Data to Bridge.
PICARD: Picard here.
DATA: We have located a new home for the Boraalans, sir.

[Holodeck campsite]
WORF: Commander, the holodeck malfunctions

[Engineering]
WORF: Are increasing.
LAFORGE: I'm running every stabilization routine I know.
WORF: How much longer till we reach the new planet?
LAFORGE: We'll be there in less than eight hours. You're just going to have to hold things together a little while longer.
WORF: Someone is coming.

[Bridge]
DATA: We are in synchronous orbit above the beam down site, sir.
PICARD: Good. Mister La Forge, how much longer before we can transport the Boraalans?
LAFORGE: A few more hours, Captain, but we've got some problems here.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I don't think the holodeck's going to last that long. We've had materialization errors and resolution failures all over the place, and it's getting worse. The simulation could fall apart any minute.

[Bridge]
PICARD: We'll have the transporter room standing by. But we may have to transport the Boraalans whether you're ready or not. Please keep Mister Worf apprised.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One. We still have one more problem to worry about.

[Engineering]
WORF: A storm. Wind, lightning and thunder.
LAFORGE: I'll see what I can do.

[Vorin's quarters]
CRUSHER: I think it was some form of ritual suicide.
PICARD: He said that he had nowhere to go.
CRUSHER: He would have died even if we hadn't interfered.
PICARD: But he wouldn't have died alone and afraid.
CRUSHER: Are you saying you're sorry we saved the Boraalans?
PICARD: No, of course not. Our plan for them worked out well. But I wish that Vorin could have bridged the gap between our two cultures. I would have liked the chance to have known him better.

[Corridor]
CRUSHER: You wouldn't believe what I've been reading about in my grandmother's journals. You know she had a lover? Can you believe that? Nana was a hundred years old.
PICARD: It would seem the Howard women have exceptionally vigorous libidos.
CRUSHER: I certainly hope so. After all, I hope I can find a handsome young man in his thirties when I pass the century mark.
PICARD: Thirties?
CRUSHER: Yes. According to these journals, his name is Ronin and he's thirty four years old. They met just after my great-grandmother's death. And I think I saw him at the funeral. A handsome young man tossed a camellia onto her grave. But the strange thing is, she never mentioned him in her letters. Never once. And yet it appears they spent almost all their time together. It's as if she led an entire life that I knew nothing about.
PICARD: Well it looks like we're going to be on Caldos for a few days more. This will be a good opportunity to get your grandmother's affairs in order.
CRUSHER: Thank you.
PICARD: Thirties?

[Ten Forward]
TROI: You dreamt you were in bed with someone?
CRUSHER: Not exactly. I was in bed but there wasn't another person in my dream. It was more like a presence.
TROI: You said you felt a touch.
CRUSHER: A pair of hands. They were moving across my skin.
TROI: Like a caress?
CRUSHER: Yes. And there was a voice, a man. He whispered my name. It was as if I knew him, or more like he knew me. He knew exactly how I liked to be touched. It was the most physical dream I've ever had. The sensations were very real and extremely arousing.
TROI: Frankly, I'm envious.
CRUSHER: I did fall asleep reading a particularly erotic chapter in my grandmother's journal. She wrote very detailed descriptions of her experiences with Ronin.
TROI: Well, that's bound to cause a dream or two. So, shall we start going over the personnel reports?
CRUSHER: You know, I think he had a ring on one of his hands when he touched my shoulder, my neck. I wonder if I'll have another dream tonight.
TROI: I'd read two chapters.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, I am detecting atmospheric turbulence over the colony and large pockets of electrical activity.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: It is growing in intensity, sir.
RIKER: That's one hell of a thunderstorm.
PICARD: Bridge to Engineering. Mister Data, we're reading

[Engineering]
PICARD: An extremely large storm system over the Caldos colony.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I thought that the weather control malfunction was not severe.

[Engineering]
DATA: It began as a minor power fluctuation, sir, but the effect has spread throughout the control grid. It has caused an unusual concentration of cumulonimbus activity above the colony.
LAFORGE: Captain, I suggest we set up a power transfer between the Enterprise and the weather substations. Try to give them enough power to stabilize the storm.
PICARD: Make it so.

[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: Come in.
TROI: Hi, Bev. I just wanted to see if you were going to mok'bara class this morning.
CRUSHER: No, I think I'll skip it today. I'm exhausted.
TROI: Did you have another dream last night?
CRUSHER: Not exactly.
TROI: Is anything wrong?
CRUSHER: Not at all.
TROI: Beverly, if I didn't know any better, I'd say you were seeing someone.
CRUSHER: Deanna.
TROI: Now I know you're seeing someone.
CRUSHER: I'm not seeing anybody. I met someone, that's all.
TROI: Well, you obviously have romantic feelings for him. Beverly, when are you going to realize that you can't fool me? Who is it?
CRUSHER: All right. I met Ronin.
TROI: Ronin? Your grandmother's lover?
CRUSHER: He's unlike anyone I've ever met before. I know this sounds crazy, but I have never known anyone who was so
TROI: Passionate.
CRUSHER: Exactly. I can see why Nana fell in love with him. This sounds very strange, doesn't it?
TROI: I admit it's unusual. I'm very happy for you. But I want you to consider something. You and Ronin have both suffered a tremendous loss. Very often, shared traumatic experience can create the illusion of closeness and romance.
CRUSHER: Thank you for your concern, but I think I know what I'm doing. Besides, I didn't say I was in love with him. I'm just intrigued.

[Ready room]
TROI: Beverly was attracted to Ronin in a very intense and intimate way. I warned her that it was all very sudden but she didn't want to talk about it, so I let her alone. I sensed that she was holding something back, that she wasn't telling me the whole truth.
PICARD: Do you think this Ronin could be exerting some sort of influence over her? That it's because of him that she's staying?
TROI: It's possible. But she may really believe she's in love with him.
PICARD: This is a rash decision, ill considered. It's not like Beverly at all.
TROI: I agree, but she does have the right to make that choice, even if we don't feel it's a good one.
PICARD: Come.
DATA: Captain, Geordi and I have detected an energy residual with the same anaphasic signature as the one we found on Ned Quint's body.
PICARD: Where?
DATA: Approximately seventeen kilometers from the center of the colony, sir. It is coming from the cemetery.
PICARD: Data, I want you to go down to the cemetery. See if you can pinpoint the source.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: In the meantime, I would like to meet with this Ronin.

[Graveyard]
LAFORGE: The energy readings are coming from this direction, but I can't get an exact location. I'll try narrowing the scan field.
DATA: The energy readings appear to be originating approximately two meters below the surface. I believe they are concentrated within this burial site.

[Ten Forward]
CRUSHER: Somehow, he realized that one of my ancestors had a biochemistry that was compatible with his energy matrix. I imagine that he took human form and seduced her like he did me. I was about to be initiated into a very unusual relationship. You might call it a family tradition. But there's a part of me that's a little sad.
TROI: How so?
CRUSHER: I re-read the entries in my grandmother's journals. Whatever else he might have done, he made her very happy.

[Crusher's office]
OGAWA: Excuse me, Doctor.
CRUSHER: If you're wondering about the evaluations, things couldn't be better.
OGAWA: Actually, I just wanted to tell you that Ensign Reilly's condition is showing improvement. But thank you.
CRUSHER: In fact, I'm recommending you for a promotion. How does Lieutenant Alyssa Ogawa sound?
OGAWA: It sounds wonderful.
CRUSHER: I'll talk to Commander Riker and I'm sure it'll be official as soon as the current crew evaluations are over. Oh, Alyssa, how are things going between you and Lieutenant Powell?
OGAWA: Fine. I think.
CRUSHER: You think?
OGAWA: I'm sure it's nothing, but he seems preoccupied lately. Last night he had to cancel our date.
CRUSHER: I see.
OGAWA: He's been putting together a research proposal. He's been really busy with it.
CRUSHER: I know what that's like. Sometimes I get so busy with research I forget to eat.
OGAWA: I just wonder.
CRUSHER: What? Sit down.
OGAWA: I've never met anyone like Andrew. It's as though we've known each other forever.
CRUSHER: You do seem very well suited.
OGAWA: But I know that in the beginning of a romance it's possible to be a little blind.
CRUSHER: I'm not sure I know what you mean.
OGAWA: Well, canceling a date like that, the way he's been so distant lately. Doctor, do you think those could be warning signs that he's losing interest?
CRUSHER: Alyssa, I think you're overreacting.
OGAWA: Maybe so.
CRUSHER: If I cared as much about someone as much as you care about Andrew, he'd have to do a lot more than cancel a date before I'd get suspicious.
OGAWA: You're right.
CRUSHER: I'm sure that when this research is over, things will be back just the way they were.
OGAWA: Except, of course, that he'll have to deal with Lieutenant Ogawa.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We're holding position in the Argaya System.
PICARD: Anything?
WORF: No, sir. I detect no vessels in the vicinity.
PICARD: How close to the Cardassian border are we?
DATA: Less than five thousand kilometers, sir.
WORF: Sir, I am detecting an object five meters in length. It appears to be an escape pod.
RIKER: They must have been forced to abandon the ship.
PICARD: How far inside Cardassian space is it?
WORF: Fifty thousand kilometers.
PICARD: How the hell are we going to get it out of there?
DATA: Sir, the pod's life support system is failing.
RIKER: Notify Doctor Crusher.
PICARD: Can we get within transporter range without crossing into Cardassian territory?
DATA: We would need to boost the gain on the confinement beam by at least seven percent.
PICARD: Mister La Forge?

[Outside Sickbay]
PICARD: Ensign, you're with me.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Alyssa, thank you for coming so quickly. We have to prepare for surgery. We have a comatose patient with a subdural hematoma.
OGAWA: Yes, sir.
CRUSHER: I want to make it clear that you are not to discuss what you see here with anyone.
OGAWA: I understand.
CRUSHER: We'll need to synthesize at least a liter of Cardassian blood.

[Riker's quarters]
WORF: Twenty.
CRUSHER: The thing is, I saw Powell in Ten Forward with another woman, and the way they were talking it made me wonder.
TROI: Well, if he's seeing someone else he should tell Alyssa. I mean, it might hurt her now, but it would be better in the long run.
RIKER: I've been meaning to talk to you about something, Mister Worf. I don't think Ensign Sito's prepared for the Ops position.
WORF: Well, I must say I disagree, sir.
LAFORGE: Counselor. Pair of fours bets.
RIKER: I'm listening.

[Riker's quarters]
WORF: It is your decision, sir, but I am certain if you give Ensign Sito a chance to prove herself, she will not disappoint you.
RIKER: Very well, I'll take her under consideration. Besides, I'm not convinced about Lavelle.
TROI: Really? Why?
RIKER: He's too eager to please. He's always trying to ingratiate himself to me.
TROI: Why assume he's doing it that to get the job?
LAFORGE: Fifty.
RIKER: There's your fifty, and one hundred more.
TROI: I don't know. It seems to me that you and Lavelle are a lot alike.
RIKER: What? We're not at all alike.
LAFORGE: You're bluffing.

[Riker's quarters]
LAFORGE: The Commander's flush is still working. No help, Worf. Tens and deuces for the Doctor. And Jacks and fours for the Counselor. Ah, three sixes.
WORF: Fold.
RIKER: Looks like it's just you and me. You going to go another fifty?
LAFORGE: I'm thinking. Give me a second, here.
TROI: Didn't you tell me that you took up poker so you could be the officer's game at the Potemkin?
RIKER: I happen to like poker.
TROI: But your senior officers might have thought you were trying to ingratiate yourself. I guess it's lucky that they realized you were young and inexperienced, and decided not to hold it against you.
RIKER: Maybe I have been a little hard on Lavelle.
WORF: I do not believe he is bluffing.
LAFORGE: I do. There you go. What've you got?
WORF: Flush.
LAFORGE: I can't believe this.
RIKER: I am your worst nightmare.

[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come on, Geordi. You don't have to quit just because I'm unbeatable?
LAFORGE: Nah, there's something I need to do down in Engineering. I'll get you next time.
RIKER: I'll be there.
LAFORGE: Goodnight, everybody. TROI +
CRUSHER: Goodnight.

[Sickbay]
OGAWA: You wanted to see me, Doctor?
CRUSHER: Yes. Alyssa, I think you know how much I've come to depend upon you here. I've recommended your promotion because your performance here has been exemplary.
OGAWA: Thank you, Doctor. I appreciate that.
CRUSHER: But more than that, I've come to think of you as a friend. Someone I really care about.
OGAWA: That's nice of you to say. I feel the same way.
CRUSHER: So, you and Andrew Powell?
OGAWA: Someone told you.
CRUSHER: Told me what?
OGAWA: We were going to keep it a secret until the promotions are announced.
CRUSHER: Secret?
OGAWA: He asked me to marry him.
CRUSHER: Alyssa, that's wonderful! I'm so relieved. I mean happy.

[Ready room]
PICARD: To all Starfleet personnel, this is the Captain. It is my sad duty to inform you that a member of the crew, Ensign Sito Jaxa

[Engineering]
PICARD: Has been lost

[Sickbay]
PICARD: In the line of duty. She was the finest example of a Starfleet

[Bridge]
PICARD: Officer, and a young woman of remarkable courage

[Ready room]
PICARD: And strength of character. Her loss will be deeply felt by all who knew her. Picard out.

[Riker's quarters]
TROI: Is that supposed to be a question?
TROI: Because if you're asking me if I liked what you were playing, then the answer is yes.
TROI: You know, this is a much better way of communicating for you. It's far less confusing than the way you normally speak.
RIKER: I knew I could count on my Imzadi, the ship's Counselor to boost my self-image.
TROI: I'm glad to be of service.
RIKER: Did you come here for something in particular, or just general Riker bashing?
TROI: Actually I wanted to ask your opinion about something. I've been thinking about taking the Bridge Officer's test and becoming a full Commander.
RIKER: What brought this up?
TROI: A lot of things. Working on the personnel review last month, talking with Beverly about her experiences, going to my class reunion.
RIKER: Ah, the class reunion. You saw a few old friends who had already taken the test?
TROI: All right, I admit it was a catalyst. But I can honestly say that I've been thinking about this off and on over the past two years.
RIKER: Why the past two years?
TROI: Do you remember when the Enterprise hit that quantum filament and I was in command on the Bridge?
RIKER: I do.
TROI: Well, when that happened, I was overwhelmed. But when it was over I realized that a part of me missed it. Not the actual disaster, but the experience of being in command. I felt like I was exploring a whole new side of myself. Not that I want to give up counseling by any means, but I really would like to stretch myself a little.
RIKER: Deanna, if you take the Bridge Officer's test, you'll have my complete support. But as First Officer, I'll be the one judging your performance, and you should know I am a pretty tough judge.
TROI: And I'm a pretty good student.
RIKER: We'll start tomorrow morning, oh eight hundred hours.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: The secondary plasma vent has a triple redundant bypass. Which means that the primary access junction is routed through
TROI: Come in. Would be routed through the port transducer matrix. Come to give me more encouragement?
RIKER: No. I'm actually here to tell you that I've decided to cancel the rest of your test.
TROI: What?
RIKER: I'm canceling the test.
TROI: May I ask why?
RIKER: You've taken the Engineering qualification three times. You're no closer to passing.
TROI: Well, then I'll take it four times, or fourteen times, or however many times are necessary for me to get it right.
RIKER: Deanna, this is nothing personal. Not everyone is cut out to be a Bridge Officer. I don't think this is for you.
TROI: Why? Because I'm not the most technically-minded person on the ship? I may have trouble telling the difference between a plasma conduit and a phase inducer, but there's more to being a bridge officer than memorizing technical manuals.
RIKER: That's right, there is. You could spend the next month memorizing all the technical manuals in the computer, I still don't think you'd pass the test.
TROI: Tell me one thing. Is there a solution? Or is this simply a test of my ability to handle a no-win situation?
RIKER: There is a solution.
TROI: Then give me time to find it.
RIKER: I can't. As much as I care about you, my first duty is to the ship. I cannot let any Bridge Officer serve who's not qualified. I'm sorry.
TROI: My first duty is to the ship. The ship!

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Positronic net online. Subprocessor relays in place and neuroelectrical systems enabled.
CRUSHER: Data, are you all right?
DATA: I do not know. I am surprised to find myself here. I thought I was on Barkon Four.
PICARD: What's the last thing you remember?
DATA: I had located the crashed Federation probe and collected the radioactive fragments. I was attempting to download the sensor logs from the probe's onboard computer. There was a power surge. I believe the surge overloaded my positronic matrix. After that, I have no memory until this moment. It appears I had an interesting time.
RIKER: We don't know much about what happened either. Apparently you saved an entire village from radiation poisoning.
CRUSHER: And you were a very special friend to a little girl.
TROI: Well, if you'll excuse me, I have the Bridge this watch.
DATA: Counselor, have you been promoted in my absence?
TROI: That's right. Which means from now on you can call me sir.
DATA: Yes, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: Based on its present trajectory, the comet appears to have originated in the D'Arsay system.
RIKER: That's over two sectors away.
DATA: That is correct, sir. This object has been en route for eighty seven million years.
RIKER: That's a long time alone in the dark.
PICARD: Begin a full sensor analysis, Mister Data, and log the findings with the Federation Astrophysical Survey.
DATA: Aye, sir. The comet's outer shell is composed primarily of gaseous hydrogen and helium surrounding an icy mantle. The inner core consists of heavier elements
PICARD: What was that?
DATA: There is distortion within the comet's inner core. I believed we experienced an intense sensor echo.
RIKER: Can you correct for it?
DATA: I am attempting to do so now, sir. I have compensated for the effect. Sensors are reconfigured for a low intensity sweep. We are still picking up some interference, but the distortion is manageable. At these settings, the scan will be complete in thirty nine hours.

[Troi's quarters]
CRUSHER: Worf says he's going to teach us some mok'bara throwing techniques today.
TROI: More like falling techniques. Last time we did that I was sore for a week.
CRUSHER: What's this?
TROI: I have no idea. I've never seen it before.
CRUSHER: Maybe Will left it for you. A little present?
TROI: It's not quite his style.
CRUSHER: Then maybe it's a secret admirer.
TROI: That's an interesting thought
CRUSHER: Well, you'll figure it out later. Come on, we're going to be late.

[Engineering]
RIKER: These symbols don't match anything in the Federation linguistic banks.
LAFORGE: Some kind of alien information has been downloaded into our computer core. I don't know how it's working, but it's reconfiguring our systems.
RIKER: How did it get in?
LAFORGE: I was able to trace its path from the replicators to the sensor array.
RIKER: The sensors? They've been scanning that comet for the past eighteen hours.
LAFORGE: Those energy readings from the comet's core, that sensor echo. We still don't know what's inside that thing.
RIKER: Maybe it's about time we found out. Could we use the phasers to melt down the shell of the comet?
LAFORGE: Yeah, a dispersed wide-field beam might do the trick. It wouldn't take long to come up with the firing parameters. What do you think, Data?
LAFORGE: Data? What's wrong?
DATA: I believe I recognize these symbols.
RIKER: How?
DATA: I do not know.
LAFORGE: Do you think maybe your systems have been affected?
DATA: It is a possibility. I do not believe my systems are currently impaired, but I will run a full diagnostic to make certain.
RIKER: What do you think they mean?
DATA: Boundary. Border. Road. Companion. Message. Messenger.
LAFORGE: What's that one?
DATA: Death.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, phasers are set for wide dispersal, ten percent maximum power. The beam will automatically terminate once the comet's core is reached.
PICARD: Very well, Mister Worf. Fire.
WORF: Phasers have terminated.
PICARD: Mister Data, what are we looking at? Is it a ship?
DATA: I do not know, sir. The object is nearly solid. It is composed primarily of fortanium and several unknown materials. It is over eighty seven million years old.
RIKER: That's older than the comet itself. Could someone from the D'Arsay system have built it?
PICARD: There are no technologically advanced cultures in that system now. But perhaps eighty seven million years ago, there were.
RIKER: Why would they want to hide something like that inside a comet?
PICARD: Possibly it accumulated those frozen gasses over time as it traveled through space.
LAFORGE: In any case, it's definitely responsible for the system anomalies we've been experiencing. They're using our sensor beam as a carrier wave to transmit information into our computers and replicators.
PICARD: But the question remains, why? What is its purpose?
DATA: Captain, I believe this object is an informational archive.
PICARD: Why do you say that, Mister Data?
DATA: I do not know. However, I seem to have an intuitive understanding of its function.
LAFORGE: Data, the internal structure of that thing is pretty complex, and it's got a repetitive node configuration which might suggest a database of some kind, but it could be practically anything. I don't see how you could know for sure what it is.
PICARD: Data, do you believe that you're in communication with that object?
DATA: It is a possibility, sir. I recommend we run a level one diagnostic of my positronic net immediately to determine if that is the case.
PICARD: Very well. Mister LaForge, give him a hand.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Do you think it's just trying to make contact with us?
PICARD: Yes, it's possible. But if that is an archive from some ancient civilization, we should allow it to do so. But we must be careful. Mister Worf, will you keep an eye on the sensors. If the ship is in any danger, I want you to sever the connection immediately.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
RIKER: Captain?
PICARD: Yes, come in, Number One.
RIKER: We've confined the system corruption. It won't be spreading any further. But we still have alien symbols floating around on our computer. This is quite a collection you've assembled. I've seen these things all over the ship. They all look the same. Primitive and non-functional.
PICARD: Ceremonial, and deceptively primitive. Only an advanced technological society could have built that object out there. These artifacts played a ritualistic role in that society, I think.
RIKER: Do you think Data could be right? Could we have stumbled across some sort of alien library?
PICARD: Oh, yes, it's possible. And if so, this is a find of most enormous significance. That library seems designed to do so much more than simply store information. Who knows what we might learn from this?
RIKER: I keep seeing this design.
PICARD: Yes, this symbol seems to be of particular significance.
RIKER: What do you think it means?
PICARD: The concept of the four cardinal compass directions is quite common in many different cultures.
RIKER: The words that Data recognized in the computer, boundary, border, road, they were all arranged in this design.
PICARD: Well, perhaps the artifacts that all have this compass symbol belong to the same theme, movement. Finding a direction, traveling a path, crossing a boundary.
RIKER: And death? One of the symbols was death.
PICARD: The ultimate boundary.
PICARD: I've seen this symbol everywhere too, but much less prominently displayed. It's always in the background, smaller than the others.
RIKER: What do you think it represents?
PICARD: I have no idea.

[Observation lounge]
LAFORGE: This is a micrograph of what's happened to Data's positronic net. Now, as near as I can tell, these are behavioral nodes. I've counted fourteen so far. I think the archive is using Data to create different people within its culture much in the same way it used our replicators to create artifacts.
TROI: As a result, Data's real personality has been completely buried. In a sense, Data has the android equivalent of multiple personalities.
LAFORGE: The archive hasn't stopped yet. Data's positronic net is still being transformed. There's no telling how many more personalities might emerge.
PICARD: Geordi, I want you to continue to scan the archive. See if you can find some way to access it. And in the meantime, I'll see what I can learn from these people inside Data.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
RIKER: The archive just activated some kind of tractor beam, sir. We're not able to disengage it.

[Data's quarters]
PICARD: Has there been any damage to the ship?

[Bridge]
RIKER: There was an emergency reported in Ten Forward. Mister Worf's on his way.
LAFORGE: Captain, there's some kind of energy pulse coming through the tractor beam.

[Ten Forward]
TROI: Who's this?
PICARD: I'd say that that is Masaka. Ihat referred to her as a queen, and it's not unusual in ceremonial cultures to find royalty symbolized by a sun.
TROI: You said the personalities inside Data were in awe of her, even terrified.
PICARD: According to Data, the sun image is also a symbol for death.
PICARD: There it is again. The same U-shaped symbol, small and insignificant. Almost as if it's an afterthought.
LAFORGE: Captain, this is incredible. These artifacts weren't beamed over here from the archive. The matter here in Ten Forward has been transformed.
PICARD: Into living plants? How is that possible?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure. But bit by bit, this ship is being transformed.
WORF: We have been receiving reports from the rest of the ship. Part of deck twelve is now an aqueduct.
TROI: What are we being transformed into?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure I want to find out.
PICARD: I don't think we have a choice. We must destroy that archive. Mister Worf?
WORF: Sir, our weapon control systems are inoperative. However, we could reconfigure a photon torpedo for manual launch.
PICARD: Make it so.
PICARD: There's so much here we could have learned. I really regret losing that opportunity.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Okay, I've locked in the targeting parameters. What's the phase alignment now?
WORF: Less than point seven percent.
LAFORGE: Good, that'll do it. I'm setting the yield at maximum.
WORF: Sir, the onboard power systems are not functioning.
LAFORGE: Let's see what's going on here?
LAFORGE: Something tells me we'd better get out of here.
WORF: Engineering to Bridge. Emergency transport. Two to beam out.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Maybe we'd better talk in here. The Observation Lounge has turned into a swamp.
PICARD: So, what's our status?
LAFORGE: Well, so far the archive has transformed about twenty percent of the ship. We've lost main propulsion and weapons systems in the process.
RIKER: What about communications, sensors, life support?
LAFORGE: We have communications, and limited sensor control. Life support seems to be unaffected.
CRUSHER: I've analyzed the alien plant forms. They've developed from biological matter we have on the ship.
LAFORGE: The stone, the artifacts, are made in much the same way, extrapolating from the ship's own alloys.
CRUSHER: Apparently the archive can reorder and transform molecular structure including DNA into anything it wants.
PICARD: So it's using our ship, our alloys, our DNA, to create elements of its own culture.
TROI: But why is this happening? What does the archive hope to accomplish?
PICARD: Well, whatever the intent that lies behind its process, I'm not going to permit this ship to be turned into an alien city. Mister La Forge, do you have any ideas?
LAFORGE: We still haven't been able to cut off that beam, but I have managed to access the archive by sending an energy pulse back along their signal path. If I can locate the transformation program, I might be able to control it.
PICARD: That's a good idea, but I feel that the answer lies there, with Masaka. We must find her, access her. Talk to her.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Any progress, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: I think I've found the archive's transformation program.
PICARD: Will it accept the symbol for Masaka's temple?
LAFORGE: I think so. I've isolated the program's input pathways. They're keyed to accept symbols. If I input this one, it should initiate the transformation process.
RIKER: And create the temple?
LAFORGE: I hope so. If this is the wrong symbol, it might turn the Enterprise into a big chunk of rock. No way to know for sure.
TROI: The question is, can we trust a personality from an alien archive that seems bent on taking us over?
PICARD: Ihat risked his life to show me that symbol, and Masaka killed him for doing it. I think we have to risk it.

[Corridor]
WORF: Captain. The entire deck has been cleared of personnel. We may proceed.
PICARD: Commander Riker, we're ready.
RIKER: Understood.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Initiate transformation.
LAFORGE: Inputting the symbol now.

[Temple]
PICARD: This would seem that this is Masaka's temple.
WORF: There is no one else here.
PICARD: Ihat said that if we created the temple, then it would get her attention. It may be some time before she shows herself.
WORF: How will she do that?
PICARD: I don't know.
TROI: Captain, take a look at this.
PICARD: This is the first time I've seen these two symbols paired. That could be significant. Look, there it is again, and again. And there again. This is obviously an important pairing. He isn't chasing her anymore.
TROI: Sir?
PICARD: Ihat said that someone named Korgano isn't chasing Masaka anymore. And the old man said, he pursues her no longer. In a sense, this small symbol might be seen to be chasing Masaka.
WORF: The symbol suggests antlers of some kind. Horns. Maybe it is meant to represent an animal.
TROI: Animals are worshiped in many cultures.
PICARD: That smaller symbol could represent Korgano. Both Ihat and the old man said that Korgano was the only one who could control Masaka. Many ritualistic cultures incorporate the idea of balance into their belief systems. Now, Masaka is a queen. A powerful, god-like figure. It's not unrealistic to believe that she might have a counterpart, a consort. Look around. See if you can find that horn-like symbol anywhere else.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I've found it, Captain. This is the only place in the archive where Korgano's moon symbol appears by itself, not linked with Masaka's.
PICARD: All right, Mister La Forge, I want you to access the transformation program. And when you're ready, input the symbol.
RIKER: Isn't that a little risky?
TROI: We have no way idea what the result would be. The symbol might generate anything from Korgano's temple to Korgano himself.
PICARD: In one sense, Korgano is Masaka's nemesis. Whatever this symbol represents, it could be for us a means to control her. Now, if anyone has a better idea, I'd be happy to entertain it.
LAFORGE: I've accessed the program, Captain.
PICARD: Initiate the transformation.
RIKER: Another mask.
PICARD: You know, we could be going about this all the wrong way. This is a very ritualistic culture based on symbol and myth. Perhaps we should try to confront them on those terms. If I could somehow incorporate myself in their ritual, then perhaps Masaka would listen to me.
RIKER: You're going to try to pose as Korgano?
TROI: Captain, we know so little about this culture and even less about Korgano. How would you convince Masaka that you're him?
PICARD: I'm really not certain, but there are similarities between this culture and others that I've studied. I would imagine I'm just going to improvise. Mister Worf, what's our status?
WORF: I estimate we have less than two hours before there is nothing left of the ship. At least, nothing we can recognize.

[Corridor]
RIKER: Riker to Picard. I don't know what you did, sir, but it looks like everything's back to normal.
PICARD: Acknowledged, Number One. Mister Data, are you all right?
DATA: I believe so, sir. I am not entirely certain what has happened. Have I been dreaming again?
PICARD: I'm afraid that will take some time to explain.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 47618.4. Commander La Forge has managed to disable the alien transformation program. Starfleet has dispatched an archeological team to study the archive further.

[Ready room]
PICARD: But I don't understand. I thought all the alien artifacts had disappeared from the Enterprise.
DATA: That one was not created by the archive, sir. That is the clay mask I originally made. I have since painted it.
PICARD: A memento.
DATA: Yes, sir. Although I am relieved to be rid of those alien personalities, in a sense, I am now empty.
PICARD: I can imagine. Doctor Crusher told me that there were possibly dozens of personalities inside you.
DATA: I suspect the number was much greater. My impression is that there were thousands, of all ages and walks of life. It was a remarkable experience.
PICARD: Well, Data, you never may become fully human, but you've had an experience that transcends the human condition. You have been an entire civilization.

[Bridge]
DATA: We are losing containment in the starboard nacelle tube.
PICARD: Try to get more power to the field coils.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister La Forge.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Report.
LAFORGE: I can't shut down the plasma injectors. Somebody's locked out the controls.

[Bridge]
DATA: The plasma venting system has engaged.

[Jefferies tube]
WORF: Two more decks.
RIKER: Riker to Bridge. We've almost reached the nacelle tube.
PICARD: Acknowledged.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Release the exterior hull plate. We may have to jettison the core.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Ready room]
RIKER: A few more seconds I could've saved his life
WORF: Commander, you did everything you could. It was not your fault.
RIKER: It was strange. I felt as if he didn't even recognize me, although I was with him just the other day when I supervised the tube refit.
PICARD: How did he seem then?
RIKER: Fine. I complimented him on getting the refit done faster than expected. He was pleased that I'd noticed.
TROI: I met with him about six weeks ago, during the crew evaluations. He was very positive. He was looking forward to being posted to the nacelle tube.
RIKER: He was a good officer with a fine career ahead of him. I don't understand why he wanted
PICARD: In my years as a Starship Captain, I've had to notify many parents of the loss of loved ones, but never before a suicide. I would like to be able to offer Lieutenant Kwan's parents some explanation of what happened, to try to help them make sense of this.
WORF: Maybe he left a message of some kind, explaining why he did it.
PICARD: I would like the two of you to piece together a picture of his last few days.
TROI: If he made any personal logs, it might be helpful to look through them.
PICARD: You're authorized to do so.
LAFORGE: La Forge to Captain.
PICARD: Go ahead.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I've just finished my damage assessment. We should be able to get underway I'd say within the hour.
PICARD: Mister La Forge

[Ready room]
PICARD: The medical situation on Barson Two has worsened. Starfleet has given us permission to exceed warp speed limitations so as to get back on schedule.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We'll be able to give you warp eight if you need it.
PICARD: Acknowledged.
DATA: Geordi, would you agree that the instinct for self-preservation is shared by most life forms?
LAFORGE: I'd say it's probably the most basic instinct, Data.
DATA: That being the case, I find it difficult to understand why someone would deliberately terminate their own existence.
LAFORGE: I don't know, Data. All I can think is that maybe Lieutenant Kwan felt that there was something wrong in his life, something he felt powerless to fix.
DATA: I believe I understand. I have been in a similar situation.
LAFORGE: Really?
DATA: The first months following my activation were a difficult period for me. There were many problems associated with my becoming sentient.
LAFORGE: Because your neural net was still forming.
DATA: As I acquired new skills, neural pathways would form replacing other less complex pathways. It was very disorienting.
LAFORGE: I bet.
DATA: As my systems grew in complexity, it became increasingly difficult to integrate new pathways into my existing neural net. The probability of cascade failure grew with each additional pathway. I came to the conclusion it would be safer and easier to shut myself down and start again.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but if you had done that, you wouldn't have remembered any of the things that had happened to you.
DATA: In a way, it would have been like committing suicide.
LAFORGE: So what did you do?
DATA: I decided against the procedure. I chose instead to treat the problems I was having with my systems as challenges to overcome, rather than obstacles to be avoided.
LAFORGE: Great way of looking at it, Data. I wish Lieutenant Kwan had been able to look at his problems the same way.

[Sickbay]
TROI: I don't know how to describe it. I was suddenly overwhelmed by a flood of emotions. Fear, rage, panic. And the sensations didn't seem to be coming from any person. They were just there, in the room.
RIKER: Whose emotions were they? I thought you said were alone.
TROI: I was.
WORF: I scanned the area. I found no anomalous readings.
RIKER: How could you get an empathic impression from an empty room?
TROI: I don't know.
CRUSHER: Could the fact that Lieutenant Kwan was partially empathic have anything to do with it?
RIKER: What do you mean?
CRUSHER: I'm not sure, but certainly the feelings Troi described are consistent with suicide.
RIKER: Could his death have left some sort of empathic echo?
TROI: I don't see how. But if I went back to the nacelle tube, I might get a better sense of what I experienced.
CRUSHER: I don't think I'd recommend that right now. You're showing elevated levels of psilosynine.
WORF: Psilosynine?
CRUSHER: It's a neurotransmitter involved in telepathy. The experience overwhelmed you the first time. I think you should wait until your levels return to normal.
RIKER: How long?
CRUSHER: Three, maybe four hours.
RIKER: This time I want someone with you.
WORF: I shall accompany you, Counselor.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 47623.2. We've arrived at Starbase three twenty eight on schedule. After taking aboard medical supplies, we will depart for Barson Two.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Come in. Hello, Worf.
WORF: Counselor. Have you found anything in Lieutenant Kwan's logs?
TROI: Everything I've read suggests that he was well-adjusted and optimistic. It just doesn't make any sense. Can I get you anything?
WORF: No. No, nothing.
TROI: Yridian tea. I've been thinking about what happened to me in the nacelle tube. Whether it was an empathic echo left by Kwan's death.
WORF: In the past, have your empathic experiences always involved the physical presence of another person?
TROI: All the ones I'm sure of, yes.
WORF: What do you mean, sure of?
TROI: Well, when I was a young girl, my grandfather used to tell me stories by the fire. I would close my eyes and listen to his mind for hours on end.
WORF: He would tell you these stories telepathically?
TROI: My grandfather rarely spoke. He said that was for off-worlders and people who didn't know any better. Now the only time I can remember his stories is when I go home and sit by the fireplace. Sometimes when I'm alone there, it's almost as if I can hear his voice inside my head.
WORF: Yes. Yes, I too have sought visions in fire.
TROI: I can't explain it, but it feels real to me. Just like what happened in the nacelle tube.
WORF: There are things we do not understand, yet they exist nonetheless. Perhaps I should let you get some rest.
TROI: Oh, it's all right.
WORF: If you will excuse me, Counselor.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Do you remember anything else?
TROI: Yes, I think I do. There was a tool crate on the floor. It was labeled Utopia Planitia.
DATA: The shipyard where the Enterprise was built.
PICARD: Clearly this was much more than an empathic echo. It seems that you were actually seeing something that happened in the control room eight years ago.
TROI: Everyone was looking directly at me, but it was as though I was seeing through someone else's eyes.
DATA: Lieutenant Kwan was partially empathic.
CRUSHER: Maybe you were seeing it through his eyes?
TROI: It's possible, but I don't see how it could have happened.
PICARD: Well, putting that on one side for the moment, let's assume that by some unexplained phenomenon, you witnessed an event that occurred to Lieutenant Kwan. Those faces that you saw. Did you recognize any of them?
TROI: I've never seen the woman before, or the man who was with her. But there was someone else there. A man. He was staring at me in the most peculiar way. I think he had reddish hair. And he did seem familiar to me. But it's all so hazy. It's like trying to remember a dream.
PICARD: There was a woman who was frightened. And then you saw her again, laughing, presumably at Lieutenant Kwan.
CRUSHER: What does it all mean?
TROI: I don't know, but something terrible happened in there. I felt it.
PICARD: Counselor, I want you to look through the personnel files of Utopia Planitia. See if you can recognize any of those faces.
TROI: If only I could go back to the control room without being overwhelmed by the experience. It might help me remember some detail that might be relevant.
CRUSHER: I could give you an inhibitor that would slow the brain's production of psilosynine. That might be able to suppress your empathic abilities and make the experience more manageable. It would take about sixteen hours to synthesize the inhibitor.
TROI: I'd like to try that.
PICARD: Very well, Counselor.

[Bridge]
WORF: I apologize for being late. The viral medicines we are transporting to Barson Two require special security measures to insure they are properly contained. Have you found anything?
TROI: No. There were literally thousands of people involved in building the Enterprise.
WORF: Perhaps if you should try to narrow the search parameters.
TROI: I think I have. The man who looked familiar to me may have served on board the Enterprise in the last seven years, so I've asked the computer to limit its search to personnel who served at Utopia Planitia and on the Enterprise.
TROI: Ensign Salvatore. He transferred over a year ago. Lieutenant Ziff. She's in Quantum mechanics. That's him.
WORF: Lieutenant Walter Pierce.
TROI: I remember now. He came on board about six months ago. I think he's in Engineering.

[Corridor]
TROI: The strange thing is I couldn't read him at all.
WORF: But you implied that? We have played poker together many times. I've never known you to bluff.
TROI: Well it wouldn't be much of a bluff if you knew, would it? The fact that I couldn't read him suggests that he has at least some telepathic ability.
WORF: But Pierce is human.
TROI: That's what I don't understand. Even though I couldn't read his emotions, I did feel that he was holding something back.
WORF: I thought so as well.
TROI: Maybe we should try to access the Engineering logs from Utopia Planitia. We might find out more about him.
WORF: There may be something in them about Lieutenant Kwan as well.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: It going to take about half an hour for the transmission to be completed.
WORF: Perhaps we should continue this in the morning.
TROI: It is late.
WORF: Yes, and you must be tired.
TROI: A little.
WORF: So I will say goodnight.
TROI: Goodnight.
WORF: We should get an early start tomorrow.
TROI: I think we should. I'll see you in the morning.
WORF: Yes.
TROI: Hello.
WORF: Breakfast is ready.
TROI: That sounds nice. But it can wait. Why didn't we do this a long time ago?
CRUSHER: Crusher to Counselor Troi.
TROI: Yes, Doctor.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I've synthesized the inhibitor. Please come to Sickbay whenever you're ready.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Acknowledged.
CRUSHER: Crusher to Lieutenant Worf.
WORF: Worf, here.
CRUSHER: Medical supplies are ready to be taken to cargo bay for transport.
WORF: I will be there shortly.

[Turbolift]
WORF: Deck ten.
TROI: Worf, can I ask you something? Do you regret what happened last night?
WORF: No, of course not.
TROI: Are you sure? Because I don't want anything to jeopardize our friendship.
WORF: Deanna, I do not regret being with you. What is wrong?
TROI: I'm not feeling myself. Maybe it's the inhibitor. I'm so used to sensing what people are feeling, and now I can't.
WORF: Perhaps I should talk to Lieutenant Pierce alone.
TROI: That might be a good idea.
WORF: I will meet you in your quarters later.
TROI: I'll be waiting for you.
TROI: Deck eight.

[Corridor]
TROI: Security override, authorisation Troi Delta two nine.

[Observation lounge]
WORF: I opened the maintenance door at Counselor Troi's request, then turned to see her standing too close to the force field.
TROI: It all seemed so real to me. I can't believe that everything I experienced happened in just those few seconds.
DATA: It appears Counselor was correct. Pierce was partially telepathic. His maternal grandmother was born on Betazed.
PICARD: What else have you found out?
DATA: According to Starfleet records, Pierce and the other persons Counselor Troi identified, were killed in an accidental plasma discharge eight years ago. Their bodies were never found.
TROI: I don't believe it was an accident. I think Lieutenant Pierce found out the other two were having an affair. He lost control and he killed them both. Afterwards, he probably activated the plasma stream and then threw himself into it.
WORF: The plasma discharge would have obliterated any evidence that it was murder.
LAFORGE: I scanned behind the panel Counselor Troi asked me to. I didn't find any bone fragments but I did find some traces of cellular residue showing some kind of psionic signature.
TROI: It may be that when Lieutenant Pierce was struck by the plasma stream, the subspace energy present there imprinted his empathic pattern into the residue.
LAFORGE: Kind of like a psychic photograph.
TROI: That's what triggered my hallucination. My mind must have taken elements from my own life and then created a situation that in many ways mirrored what happened to Pierce. If you hadn't been there, I would have jumped just like he did.

[Bridge]
WORF: Counselor. When I pulled you from the plasma stream, you seemed surprised I was alive.
TROI: Well, actually, in my hallucination, you were killed.
WORF: May I ask by whom?
TROI: Well, you know what they say, Mister Worf. Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.

[Sickbay]
OGAWA: So why were you rolling around in Cypirion cactus?
RIKER: You know Rebecca Smith?
OGAWA: The new Tactical officer?
RIKER: We took a walk in the Arboretum. We sat down, we got comfortable, things got a little romantic, and then I rolled over.
BARCLAY: Blurred vision, dizziness, palpitations, a stinging sensation in the lower spine. It's Terrelian Death Syndrome, isn't it.
CRUSHER: I thought we agreed you'd come to me before checking Starfleet Medical Database.
BARCLAY: Yes, well, this time I'm glad I did. Maybe we can stop the cellular decay before it's too late.
CRUSHER: Reg, you don't have Terrelian Death Syndrome.
BARCLAY: You, you're sure?
CRUSHER: I'm sure.
BARCLAY: Then maybe it is Symbalene blood burn.
CRUSHER: No, no. I don't see anything wrong with you at all. Wait a minute, there is a slight imbalance in your K three cell count.
BARCLAY: My K threes? Oh, no.
CRUSHER: Barclay, I'm sure it's nothing. Look, I'll run a microcellular scan. We'll see. This'll take a couple of minutes.
CRUSHER: How's my smallest patient doing?
DATA: I believe she is doing well. Her appetite has increased by seven percent, and she is starting to engage in prenatal behavior.
CRUSHER: Oh, she's getting close. You'll have a fresh litter of hungry kittens before the week is over. Let me just run an amniotic scan to make sure everything's fine and then I'll
BARCLAY: Doctor! My capillaries are shrinking!
CRUSHER: Excuse me. Alyssa, can you take care of Spot for a minute? Start a preliminary amniotic scan.
OGAWA: Yes, Doctor.
BARCLAY: My intravascular pressure, it's going right through the roof.
CRUSHER: You're right, it is elevated. You've also got heightened electrophoretic activity.
BARCLAY: Electrophoretic activity? Is it serious?
CRUSHER: Well, based on this, I'd say you've got seventy, maybe eighty years.
BARCLAY: Eighty? Eighty years?
CRUSHER: Yes, Reg. What you've got a mild case of Urodelan Flu. It's nothing serious. Most humans have a natural immunity to it, but the T-cell in your DNA that would normally fight off the infection is dormant.
BARCLAY: So you mean I have bad genes?
CRUSHER: You have one dormant gene out of a hundred thousand, and I can activate that gene with a synthetic T-cell let the body attack the infection naturally. You should feel better in a couple of days.
BARCLAY: Thank you, Doctor. I feel much better.
CRUSHER: Good. Now, stay away from Medical Database. And you stay out of the Arboretum.
OGAWA: Everything looks fine, Data. Do you want to know the sex of the kittens?
DATA: I have noticed that many humans prefer not to know in order to experience the surprise during birth. I believe I will preserve the mystery until then.
OGAWA: I know what you mean. I don't want to know either.
CRUSHER: Alyssa?
OGAWA: Spot's not the only one who's going to be a mother.
CRUSHER: Oh, Alyssa, that's wonderful! How did Andrew take the news?
OGAWA: He was a little shocked, but he's getting over it.
DATA: I have spent the past nine weeks as an expectant parent. I would be happy to share my insights with your husband. If my experience is any indication, he will need all the help he can get.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 47653.2. We're performing field tests of our new tactical systems and weapon upgrades. Mister Worf is supervising the exercises.

[Bridge]
WORF: The next test will involve the new photon torpedoes. The explosive yield has been increased by eleven percent and I have enhanced the targeting system for increased accuracy.
PICARD: Sounds fascinating, Mister Worf. Please proceed.
WORF: Setting targeting coordinates zero zero five mark three one seven, spread pattern delta nine four. Torpedoes armed and loaded, sir.
PICARD: Fire when ready.
RIKER: Worf?
WORF: One of the torpedoes has veered off course. It appears to be a malfunction in the guidance system.
PICARD: Abort and destroy.
WORF: The torpedo is not responding. Subspace detonator will not engage.
RIKER: Lock on phasers.
WORF: The torpedo is out of range.
RIKER: Even for your newly improved phasers?
PICARD: Maintain a sensor lock on the torpedo, Mister Worf. We'll have to go after it.
DATA: That would be inadvisable, sir. The asteroid field is unusually dense. The Enterprise is too large to safely navigate through it.
PICARD: Then I'll take a shuttlecraft and retrieve it. Mister Data, you're with me.
RIKER: Captain, the shuttle pilot who's on duty is Lieutenant Hayes.
PICARD: I happen to be a reasonably qualified pilot, Number One. Besides, these tests hardly require the Captain's personal attention.
RIKER: Understood. Enjoy yourself.
PICARD: Mister Worf, I think that you should consider analyzing your new guidance system.
DATA: Captain, I will need a few minutes to attend to a personal matter.

[Data's quarters]
BARCLAY: Me?
DATA: It is possible that it will take several days for Captain Picard and me to complete our mission. I would prefer to have a human present to supervise the birthing process.
BARCLAY: Well, I'd be honored.
DATA: I have noticed that you are the only other member of the crew whom Spot seems to like.
BARCLAY: Really? That's hard to believe. You're such a sweet little kitty.
DATA: She is to you. However, there have been several injuries to other members of the crew who have attempted to care for her.
BARCLAY: So, has she picked a place?
DATA: A place?
BARCLAY: Cats usually like to pick a specific location to give birth. It's usually dark and secluded, and I believe this is it.
BARCLAY: I'm curious, sir. Who's the father?
DATA: I am not certain. Spot has escaped from my quarters on several occasions and there are twelve male felines on board. I intend to run a full DNA analysis on the kittens once they
PICARD: Picard to Data. Report to Shuttlebay two.
DATA: On my way, sir. Goodbye, Spot. I believe you are in good hands.
BARCLAY: You have nothing to worry about, sir.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Problem?
WORF: I have performed thirteen diagnostics of the weapons array, and I can find nothing wrong with the guidance system.
RIKER: I'll have Geordi run a diagnostic of the torpedo bay itself. Maybe he can find something.
WORF: Must you to stand so close to me?
RIKER: Lieutenant, are you all right?
WORF: Yes, I am fine.
RIKER: No, you're not. You've been working for six hours straight. You're tired. Take a break.
WORF: But
RIKER: That's an order, Lieutenant.

[Engineering]
BARCLAY: We removed the torpedo bay's primary guidance module and found a power fluctuation in the forward sensor cluster. Now we think it may be a radial imbalance in the phase diskriminator. Now what we want to do next is run a level four diagnostic, but we're going to have to shut down auxiliary power to nineteen decks and
RIKER: Wait a minute. Slow down. I lost you back there. Which sensor clusters?
BARCLAY: The forward. It's, it's a power fluctuation in the converter nodes. It's a minor adjustment. It's minor.
LAFORGE: It's all right in here in on diagram, Commander.
RIKER: I'll look this over later. Go ahead. You run your diagnostic. I'll inform the other departments about the power systems.
BARCLAY: I'll check that.
RIKER: He's full of energy today.
LAFORGE: I can't get him to slow down. He's been working like that since last night,
BARCLAY: Looks like a plasma conduit cut out in junction seventeen. I'll go look at it.
LAFORGE: Wait a minute, Reg, I'll go with you. Keep you posted.

[Bridge]
TROI: Computer, increase ambient temperature by two degrees Centigrade and increase relative humidity by ten percent.
WORF: Computer, reset environmental controls to standard.
TROI: Worf, it's freezing in here.
WORF: You have already raised the temperature three times. It is too hot.
TROI: Live with it. Computer, execute my original command.
TROI: I need a bath. You have the Bridge.

[Jefferies tube]
BARCLAY: Here we are. Looks like a conduit ruptured. No problem, I'll just bypass it.
LAFORGE: Reg, wait a second here. Take a look at these corroded edges here. It looks like something has dissolved the bulkhead and eaten right through the conduit. There are high levels of cholic acid here. Enzymatic agents. You know, I wouldn't be surprised if that solvent was organic.
BARCLAY: Maybe we should run a biospectral analysis on the solvent. Take a closer look.
LAFORGE: That's a very good idea, but first we should take a break.
BARCLAY: You go ahead, sir. I'll take care of it.

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: What are you doing here?
WORF: I had to be near you.
TROI: Computer, increase temperature by five degrees.
WORF: Get out of that water now.
TROI: Leave me alone!

[Shuttlecraft]
DATA: Captain, the ship is not at the pre-arranged coordinates.
PICARD: Have they been delayed?
DATA: I do not know. I am unable to raise them on any communication channel.
PICARD: Scan the vicinity. See if you can find them.
DATA: I found it, sir, two light years away.
PICARD: Set a course.
DATA: The Enterprise appears to be adrift. I am reading power fluctuations on all decks.
PICARD: Life signs?
DATA: There are life signs. However, sensor readings are highly distorted. I am unable to identify specific lifeforms.
PICARD: Adjust the axial stabilizers to match the attitude and rotation rate of the Enterprise, I'm going to dock the shuttle manually.

[Shuttlebay]
DATA: Main power is offline. All systems are in standby or emergency mode. There is no response from any manned station.
PICARD: Any sign of the crew?
DATA: I cannot access internal sensors from here. We will have to go to the Bridge.

[Corridor]
PICARD: That sounds like animals.
DATA: Yes, sir. I am able to diskern over three hundred different vocalizations.
PICARD: Look at this.
DATA: It is composed of reptilian DNA. I believe it is an epidermal layer that has been cast off during molting.
PICARD: But it seems to be humanoid.
DATA: Yes, sir. I cannot explain it. There are no species aboard the Enterprise that shed their skin in this fashion.
DATA: Sir.
PICARD: These are Commander Troi's quarters. Can you tell if she's inside?
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: Data, I want to have a look in here. Stand ready.

[Troi's quarters]
PICARD: The environmental settings in these quarters have been altered. Data, over here.
PICARD: Deanna.
PICARD: What's happened to her?
DATA: Her DNA is in a state of ribocyatic flux. Her genetic codes are being re-sequenced and her cells are mutating as a result. At a fundamental level, sir, she is no longer human.
PICARD: What is she?
DATA: Her respiratory tissue has become capable of metabolizing both water and air, and her eyes have developed nictitating membranes. I believe she is amphibian, sir.
PICARD: She has been injured.
DATA: Yes, sir. There's Klingon DNA in the wound. It is saliva.
PICARD: Are you saying she's been bitten?
DATA: It would appear so.
DATA: I will need to run a full biospectral analysis.
PICARD: First we've got to get the ship under control. Let's go to the Bridge.

[Bridge]
DATA: His upper spinal column has been broken in three places.
PICARD: It looks like he's been attacked by some sort of animal.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Has his DNA been changed as well?
DATA: Yes, sir. However, it was in its initial stages when he died. Captain, I am picking up one thousand and eleven individual life forms within the ship. All exhibit a similar genetic flux to the one we observed in Counselor Troi.
PICARD: So the entire ship has been affected.
DATA: Most of the lifeforms are scattered throughout the ship. However, there are several large concentrations in the arboretum and the aquatic lab.
PICARD: I've regained attitude control for the ship, but main power is still offline. It looks as though the entire power transfer grid has been destroyed.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Will?
DATA: Captain. His cranial plates have thickened by twenty percent. His brain is much smaller, sir. I do not believe he can comprehend our language.
PICARD: Perhaps we can find a way to communicate. Will, can you understand what it is that
PICARD: He looks almost proto-human.
DATA: Yes, sir. His DNA would seem to confirm that observation. Captain, I believe the crew is de-evolving.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: This tranquilizer should keep him unconscious for another seven hours. What have you found out?
DATA: I have analyzed Commander Riker's DNA structure. A synthetic T-cell has invaded his genetic codes. This T-cell has begun to activate his latent introns.
PICARD: Introns?
DATA: They are genetic codes which are normally dormant. They are evolutionary holdovers, sequences of DNA that provided key behavioral and physical characteristics millions of years ago, but are no longer necessary. For instance, Counselor Troi's gill slits and other amphibious characteristics were derived from introns which still contain amphibious codes.
PICARD: So these introns are causing her DNA to re-combine in an earlier configuration?
DATA: That is correct. In her case, the DNA has created an amphibious lifeform which became extinct over fifty million years ago.
PICARD: And Commander Riker's introns are changing him into what appears to be one of the earlier hominids.
DATA: Yes, sir. I would say Australopithecine. Each of these stages is another link in the evolutionary chain which stretches back to the origins of all lifeforms on Earth. Because introns can include genetic material from many different species over millions of years of evolution, it is possible that a wide variety of transformations is occurring among the crew.
PICARD: What about those crewmembers who are not from Earth?
DATA: All humanoid life has a similar genetic pattern. The virus should work on non-human crewmembers in the same way. They are each de-evolving to earlier forms of life on their homeworlds. I feel I must inform you, sir, you have also been infected by the intron virus.
PICARD: How long before I begin to change?
DATA: According to my calculations, within the next twelve hours, you will begin to exhibit the first signs of your eventual transformation.
PICARD: And what will that be
DATA: I believe you will also de-evolve into some form of early primate. Possibly similar to a lemur, or a pygmy marmoset.
PICARD: Well, before I begin swinging through the ship looking for breakfast, we'd better find some answers. How do we reverse the process?
DATA: I am uncertain. We will need to run several microcellular scans. However, the ship's main computer has been damaged. Captain, the computer in my quarters has an independent processing and memory storage unit. It should not be affected. I suggest we start from there.
PICARD: Agreed.

[Data's quarters]
DATA: It would appear that Spot has had her kittens.
PICARD: They sound hungry.
DATA: Yes. I am curious as to why Spot is not caring for them.
PICARD: It would seem the intron virus is not limited to humanoid lifeforms.
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: What is it?
DATA: These kittens were born less than twenty four hours. It would appear that Spot's transformation took place at approximately the same time.
PICARD: So Spot was giving birth to the kittens at the same time that she was changing into a reptilian lifeform.
DATA: I believe so. For some reason, the intron virus was not passed on to the kittens. I do not know why.
PICARD: If I remember my biology, there are several natural immune systems that come into play in the mother's womb to protect the fetus from viral infections.
DATA: That is true. Placental barrier, maternal antibodies and amniotic fluids all serve as a filtration system.
PICARD: Maybe we could have inhibited the intron virus by using the natural antibodies in Spot's amniotic fluid.
DATA: It would take further research, but I believe to be effective on humanoid crewmembers, humanoid antibodies would be necessary.
PICARD: Then we should locate a pregnant humanoid.
DATA: Nurse Ogawa has recently became pregnant.
PICARD: Where is she?
DATA: I have traced her comm. badge signal to deck seventeen, section twenty one alpha.
PICARD: The Arboretum.
DATA: One of the warp plasma vents has failed. Main Engineering has been abandoned. There is no one there to fix the problem.

[Engineering]
DATA: I can repair the damaged plasma vent from here.
PICARD: I'm going to check the status of the warp core.
PICARD: Data!
PICARD: What was that?
DATA: I believe it was Lieutenant Barclay. He appeared to be partially transformed into an arachnid.
PICARD: A spider?
DATA: Yes, sir. Are you all right, Captain?
PICARD: I have these intense feelings of fear and panic. I feel as if I were being watched. I can't explain it.
DATA: You may be experiencing the initial stages of your transformation. Early primates were often prey to larger carnivores. As a result, their instincts probably included a heightened sense of awareness.
PICARD: In that case, my instincts tell me that we'd better hurry.

[Sickbay]
DATA: Captain, I have analyzed Nurse Ogawa's embryo. It has been unaffected by the virus. I believe I can use her amniotic fluid as a template for a retrovirus. It would neutralize the synthetic T-cell, and re-establish the original genetic patterns of each host.
PICARD: How soon can you do that?
DATA: It will not take long to isolate the appropriate genetic material. I will need to get the Sickbay computer back on
PICARD: What was that?
DATA: It is large. Approximately two hundred kilograms. It is heavily armored with an exoskeleton. Life signs appear to be Klingon.
PICARD: Worf.
PICARD: Set your phaser to heavy stun.
DATA: We cannot be certain a stun setting will have any effect on him. A higher setting may kill him.
PICARD: Listen to that. He sounds very angry, really, really aggressive. What do you think he wants? Do you think he's responding to some predatory instinct? Do you think he see us as prey?
DATA: There are crewmembers in the corridors and other sections of the ship. It would be much easier for him to capture and consume one of them, than to attempt to break through a door.
PICARD: Then what does he want? Predators use vocalizations to frighten other predators and to mark territory, and to commence mating process. A mating process. Counselor Troi was bitten by a Klingon but not in a place that might be life-threatening. Nowhere near a major artery or organ. Data, look at this. Look at this injury. This wound was never intended to give her any kind of serious harm.
DATA: Captain, what are you suggesting?
PICARD: Is it possible that Worf could see Counselor Troi as his mate?
DATA: If that is true, he must be trying to reach her now.
PICARD: Well, we can't just leave. We have to stay here and protect her. And we have to keep on working on the retrovirus. If we could distract him, if we could lure him away from her.
DATA: The mating instinct is quite strong in Klingon biology. I am not certain what would be an effective lure.
PICARD: Klingons have got a very powerful sense of smell. If we could duplicate Deanna's pheromones and then convince him she's no longer in Sickbay, that she'd gone into some other part of the ship.
DATA: I am extracting a blood sample from one of her sebaceous glands, where the pheromones are produced. I believe I can activate the pheromones with a bioactivant solution.
PICARD: Can you amplify the pheromones? They need to be much more powerful than Deanna's actual scent.
DATA: I believe this will produce the desired effect. I will use it to draw Worf to a another part of the ship.
PICARD: No, no, no. You must go on working on the retrovirus. I'll go.
DATA: Captain, that is extremely unwise. Worf may be much faster than
PICARD: No time. No time to argue.

[Turbolift]
PICARD: Deck seventeen. Deck seventeen!

[Sickbay]
DATA: Computer, display progress of genetic re-sequencing.

[Sickbay]
DATA: Data to Captain Picard.

[Jefferies tube]
PICARD: Go ahead, Data.
DATA: The retro virus is working, sir.

[Sickbay]
DATA: I can release it into the ship's atmosphere in a gaseous state.

[Jefferies tube]
DATA: However it will take some time to take effect.
PICARD: Acknowledged.

[Sickbay]
DATA: Are you all right, sir?
PICARD: Yes, I'm

[Jefferies tube]
PICARD: Fine, Mister Data. Proceed. Well, Mister Worf, let's hope that when you wake up, you're a new man.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Data has succeeded in returning the crew to normal. Doctor Crusher has determined that the synthetic T-cell she used to cure Mister Barclay's Urodelan flu initiated the intron virus which swept through the ship.

[Sickbay]
BARCLAY: So, this is my fault?
CRUSHER: No. In a way it's mine. I didn't realize it at the time, but there's an anomaly in your genetic chemistry that caused the synthetic T-cell to mutate. Instead of activating one dormant gene, it started activating all of them, including your introns.
BARCLAY: And that's what er, and that's what caused me to devolve?
CRUSHER: You and every other member of the crew. The T-cell became airborne and started to spread like a virus. You know, Reg, this is a completely new disease, and it's traditional to classify a new disease with the name of the first diagnosed patient.
BARCLAY: Oh! You mean you want to name the disease after me?
CRUSHER: That's right. How about Barclay's Protomorphosis Syndrome?
BARCLAY: Barclay's Protomorphosis. It has a nice ring to it. Thank you, Doctor.
CRUSHER: He transformed into a spider and now he has a disease named after him.
TROI: I think I'd better clear my calendar for the next few weeks.

[Wesley's quarters]
CRUSHER: Here you are, your very own quarters. They're as far away from mine as possible, so you don't even have to see me if you don't want to.
WESLEY: Mom, you know that's not why I asked for my own quarters this time.
CRUSHER: You don't have to explain. There comes a time in a young man's life when he doesn't want to stay with his poor senile mother. I understand.
WESLEY: I'll come visit you in the old Doctor's Home every Sunday.
WESLEY: Come in.
LAFORGE: So, is there a runaway cadet in here?
DATA: If so, we may have to call Security.
LAFORGE: Welcome back, Wes.
WESLEY: Thanks.
LAFORGE: So, how's life at the Academy?
WESLEY: It's great. It's great but it's good to have a break.
DATA: I was of course not serious about calling Security. It was a joke.
WESLEY: I got it, Data.
LAFORGE: So, are you just going to lounge while we all have work to do around here?
WESLEY: I'm sure I can find some time to help you, sir.
LAFORGE: Wes, enjoy your vacation. I'm sure you've earned it.
WESLEY: Thanks.
CRUSHER: Well, I think we'd better let you settle in.
LAFORGE: Yeah, that's a good idea. Say, Wes, don't sleep your whole vacation away, all right?
DATA: Goodbye, Wes.
CRUSHER: It's good to have you home, son.
WESLEY: Thanks, Mom.
CRUSHER: Really.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Thanks, Ensign. Hey, Wes! There you are. Come here for a second. I've got something I want to show you. Come on, come on. You've got to take a look at this. Now, remember how we always used to talk about improving quantum efficiency by creating a new plasmadyne relay? Well, take a look at this.
WESLEY: You've only got one microfusion interrelay in there? Your converter interface'll never hold up.
LAFORGE: Hey, I ran these diagnostics myself. This little baby will withstand over five hundred Cochranes of warp field stress.
WESLEY: I don't think so. You better put a secondary phase inverter in there. Look at your subprocessor matrix. It needs an overhaul.
LAFORGE: Well, that may be your opinion, Cadet, but I stand by my work.
WESLEY: Read the latest paper from Doctor Vassbinder. He has brilliant new theories on warp propulsion inter-relays. He's say all this stuff is obsolete.
LAFORGE: I don't know what's gotten into you, Wes.
WESLEY: Look, do you want my help or not?
LAFORGE: With this kind of an attitude, absolutely not. You're dismissed.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. The Enterprise has arrived at Dorvan Five and I have spoken to the Leader of the Tribal Council. He has agreed to meet with us this afternoon to discuss the situation.

[Wesley's quarters]
CRUSHER: Ever since you've come on board you've been moody, sullen and rude. What's going on?
WESLEY: Nothing. I just want to be left alone.
CRUSHER: That incident in Engineering was inexcusable.
WESLEY: That is my business. I don't need you telling me how to behave.
CRUSHER: I shouldn't have to. You're a fourth year Starfleet cadet. You should have a certain level of maturity.
WESLEY: Maybe I am sick of following rules and regulations. Maybe I am sick of living up to everyone else's expectations. Did you ever think of that?

[Picard's quarters]
CRUSHER: I just don't know what to do, Jean-Luc. It's as if somebody took my son away and left this stranger in his place.
PICARD: But in a sense, that's exactly what happened. Wesley left the Enterprise three years ago he was a boy, and now he's returned a young man. And that can't be easy for a mother or a son.
CRUSHER: It's gone beyond just the two of us.
PICARD: Yes, I heard about the incident with Geordi.
CRUSHER: Have you heard what happened at the Academy? I called Admiral Brand today. She said his grades are dropping, that he's becoming remote and defensive. If he's not careful, he's going to wash out next term. Maybe you should talk to him, Jean-Luc. Maybe it's the kind of thing a boy, a man needs to discuss with another man.
PICARD: I don't think he wants either of us to talk to him right now.
CRUSHER: But he needs out help.
PICARD: Beverly, he's got to want that help. If he doesn't, then any efforts on our part can only push him further away. He's got to work this out for himself.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Inexcusable. You defied the orders of the ranking officer on the scene. You put the lives of the entire away team in jeopardy, and you made an already tense situation worse. Your actions reflect very badly on this ship and on that uniform. Now, I want an explanation, Mister Crusher, and I want it now.
WESLEY: What you're doing down there is wrong. These people are not some random group of colonists. They're a unique culture with a history that predates the Federation and Starfleet.
PICARD: That does not alter the fact that my orders are to
WESLEY: I know Admiral Necheyev gave you an order, and she was given an order from the Federation Council. But it's still wrong.
PICARD: That decision is not yours to make, Cadet. I don't know what has got into you lately, and frankly right now I don't care. But I will tell you this. While you wear that uniform, you will obey every order you're given and you will conform to Starfleet regulations and rules of conduct. Is that clear?
WESLEY: Yes, sir, it is. But I won't be wearing this uniform any longer. I'm resigning from the Academy.
RIKER: Riker to Captain.
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One.
RIKER: Gul Evek wants to meet with you to discuss the situation on the surface.
PICARD: Let him come aboard. I'll see him in here.
RIKER: Aye, sir.

[Wesley's quarters]
CRUSHER: Why are you doing this?
WESLEY: I told you, Starfleet isn't for me.
CRUSHER: Look, I may not be able to stop you from throwing away your entire life, but you are going to stand here and explain it to me first. You owe me that much.
WESLEY: I saw Dad today. He told me not to follow him.
CRUSHER: You what?
WESLEY: I was participating in an Indian ritual and I had a vision. Dad came to me and told me not to follow him. He said I had to find my own path.
CRUSHER: Is that what this is all about? A vision told you to leave the Academy and now you're packing your bags?
WESLEY: No. No, it's more than that. I've known I've needed to do this for a long time. I just haven't been able to admit it to myself.
CRUSHER: But you always said that being at the Academy was the best thing that ever happened to you.
WESLEY: I know. For a while it was. But as time went on and graduation got closer, I started feeling really depressed. I thought maybe it was the workload or the stress of being away from home, but it didn't go away. It just got worse.
CRUSHER: Why didn't you ever say anything?
WESLEY: I didn't want to disappoint you or Captain Picard or my friends. You guys were all so proud of me.
CRUSHER: I'd be proud of you no matter what you were doing, Wesley. I love you.
WESLEY: I know, Mom. I guess the truth is that I was afraid of disappointing myself. I never questioned the fact that I'd be in Starfleet. But when Dad said not to follow him, it just made so much sense. Everything is so clear now.
CRUSHER: Maybe it is partly my fault. We didn't realized the kind of pressure we were putting on you to be exactly what we expected you to be
WESLEY: I don't blame you at all. It is my decision. It always has been.
CRUSHER: You know that alien from Tau Ceti, the one who could control warp fields with his mind?
WESLEY: The Traveler.
CRUSHER: He told Captain Picard a long time ago that you were very special, like Mozart, and that you were destined for something quite different from the rest of us. Maybe this is the first step. I love you.
WESLEY: I love you too, Mom.

[Transporter room]
PICARD: Where will you go?
WESLEY: The Traveler said that my studies would begin with these people. He said that they're aware of many things. I can learn a lot from them. That's just what I need. More studying.
CRUSHER: Somehow I think you'll manage.
WESLEY: Me, too.
PICARD: Well good luck, Mister. Good luck, Wesley.
WESLEY: Thank you. For a lot of things.
CRUSHER: Now you be sure and dress warmly on those other planes of existence.
WESLEY: I will. Bye, Mom.
CRUSHER: Goodbye.
PICARD: Energize.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: As a result, we won't be able to rendezvous with the Kearsarge for another four days.
RIKER: Will we be holding position here until it arrives?
PICARD: Yes. And, as it would seem we're in for a relatively quiet time, I shall use this opportunity to visit the Hatarian System. There are some ancient ruins that are just being excavated.
DATA: The delay will also make it possible for Stellar Dynamics to complete their study of the Vodrey Nebula.
RIKER: I'll let them know they can have more access to the lateral sensor grid.
PICARD: We could use this time to recalibrate the weapon targeting array. Mister Worf?
WORF: Yes, sir. I will begin the procedure immediately.
PICARD: Very good. Dismissed. Lieutenant, could I have a word with you for a moment?
PICARD: I noticed several times during the briefing that you appeared to be a bit distracted.
WORF: I apologize. In the future, I will make sure my personal affairs do not interfere with my duties.
PICARD: Is everything all right?
WORF: I am having problems with Alexander. He has made it clear he does not wish to participate in the First Rite of Ascension.
PICARD: Oh, I see.
WORF: I have tried to tell him that it is an important part of a young Klingon's life, but he does not understand.
PICARD: But he's had so little opportunity to spend time with Klingons. You know, the festival of Kot'baval is tomorrow. If he could take part in that, I'm sure he would more fully appreciate what a rich cultural heritage he comes from. There is the Klingon outpost on Maranga Four. I'm sure they'll be celebrating the festival.
WORF: Yes. But the outpost is on the other side of the Vodrey Nebula. It would take three days by shuttle to get there.
PICARD: The Enterprise could be there in a fraction of the time, and still be back in time for the rendezvous.
WORF: Captain, I cannot ask you
PICARD: Mister Worf, Stellar Dynamics would like nothing better than a trip around the nebula.
WORF: Thank you, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: We are approaching Kalla Three.
RIKER: Set a standard orbit. Any evidence of a mining expedition?
WORF: A shaft has been cut through the outer crust. There is evidence of machinery, but it does not appear to be in use.
RIKER: Life signs?
DATA: It is difficult to say. The magnesite is interfering with bioreadings.
RIKER: Assemble an away team.

[Holodeck - Maranga Outpost]
ALEXANDER: I've been waiting. Where's K'mtar?
WORF: He had to leave. He was called away.
ALEXANDER: He never said goodbye.
WORF: He asked me to say goodbye for him. He also wanted me to tell you, no matter what happens, no matter what you decide to do with your life, he will always care for you a great deal.
ALEXANDER: When will I see him again?
WORF: It may be a long time.
ALEXANDER: Well, we should start practice.
WORF: Alexander. There will be plenty of time for training.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Anything?
WORF: There are no Ferengi vessels within range of our scanners.
DATA: Captain, I am unable to find any information on Jason Vigo's current whereabouts.
PICARD: What about his mother?
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: Miranda was trained as a botanist. She always used to talk about running a farm one day. Maybe we should concentrate on the agricultural areas.
DATA: That would significantly narrow our search. The only cultivated land is on the southern continent, and there are relatively few people engaged in agricultural activities.
PICARD: There cannot be many non-Camorites among them. Scan for human life signs.
DATA: I am detecting eight humans. Three are female. However, they are all too young to be Miranda Vigo.
PICARD: What about males?
DATA: One is an infant. Another is elderly. Two are middle aged.
PICARD: That's seven. You said there were eight.
DATA: I am having difficulty getting a clear reading on the eighth. The individual appears to be approximately two kilometers beneath the planet's surface.
PICARD: Male or female?
DATA: Male, between twenty and thirty years old.
RIKER: No one in their right mind would go that far underground alone.
PICARD: Unless he were forced to.
WORF: Captain, I am reading seismic instability in the area. He is in danger.
PICARD: Relay his coordinates to the transporter room. Have them beam him aboard.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Crusher's office]
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, come in.
PICARD: I think I need to talk to a parent.
CRUSHER: So, what's he like?
PICARD: I'm not sure that I can tell you. He puts up so many barriers I have no idea what's underneath.
CRUSHER: Keep in mind he's had twenty years to be angry that his father wasn't there. It's going to take some time to get over those feelings. But I do think it's possible.
PICARD: Perhaps. But surely it would be wrong to force the issue. My sense is that he's a very independent young man. Perhaps it would be best if I left him alone. Let him come to me if he wants to.
CRUSHER: Maybe you're right. But I think you should consider this. Are you doing the best thing for Jason or what's easiest for you?

[Engineering]
WORF: Our shields were up. How could he have beamed through them?
LAFORGE: I'm not sure he did. Sensors don't show any sign of an intruder.
PICARD: Could it have been another hologram?
LAFORGE: I don't think so, Captain. Something has to generate a hologram. We would have detected it.
PICARD: Bok once used a mind control device to make me hallucinate.
LAFORGE: That device emitted a very specific energy signature. I'm not reading anything like that.
WORF: Could he have modified the device so he could use it without being detected?
LAFORGE: It's possible. I'll recalibrate the sensors to scan for low intensity transmissions. Just to be sure, I'll sweep your quarters with a resonance scanner.
PICARD: Good. Keep me posted.
PICARD: Mister Worf, I want you to assign a security detail to Jason.
WORF: And what about yourself?
PICARD: I am not the target of Bok's threats. Jason is.
DATA: Captain, I have compiled all available records pertaining to Jason Vigo's criminal record, and
PICARD: Criminal record?
DATA: Yes, sir. He has been charged three times with petty theft, twice for disorderly conduct, and several dozen times for trespassing.
PICARD: Trespassing?
DATA: I believe the charges relate to his climbing activities in the caves underneath the planet's surface. This is the information you requested, is it not?
PICARD: Thank you, Mister Data.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, I am detecting an object five thousand kilometers off our starboard bow. It is another probe.
PICARD: Why didn't we detect it before?
WORF: It must have been cloaked, sir. It came out of nowhere.
PICARD: On screen. Is it another holographic device?
DATA: I do not believe so, sir.
WORF: Captain, the probe's systems are overloading.
RIKER: Red alert. Shields up!
RIKER: Damage report.
WORF: No damage, sir.
DATA: Captain, I do not believe it was meant as an attack, but rather as a message.
PICARD: A message?
DATA: Yes, sir, in B'zal, a Ferengi code which uses an alternating pattern of light and darkness.
PICARD: Can you translate it?
DATA: I am attempting to do so. The message reads, my revenge is at hand.
PICARD: He's proved that he can get to us whenever he wants. Why doesn't he do something?

[Crusher's office]
PICARD: You wanted to see me.
CRUSHER: Yes. It's about Jason. I've finished the microcellular scan I was running. There's something you need to know,

[Bridge]
DATA: Sir, sensors are detecting a subspace carrier wave headed for the ship. Its signature is consistent with Bok's transporter.
RIKER: See if you can trace and locate Bok's ship. Geordi, are you ready down there?
LAFORGE: I've got a signal lock on Jason.
RIKER: Riker to Picard.

[Crusher's office]
PICARD: Picard here.
RIKER: Bok is trying to use his transporter.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: Initiating transport now. I'm losing his signal.
LAFORGE: Bok is re-establishing his lock on him.

[Transporter room]
LAFORGE: There. I've aligned the field coils.
DATA: Phase dampers are in synch. Standing by to modulate the transport pattern.
LAFORGE: Captain, we might be able to get you over there, but I don't see how we're going to get you back.
PICARD: We'll deal with that when the time comes.
LAFORGE: Transport's going to take longer than normal. We have to shunt your pattern through the subspace field coils.
PICARD: Understood.
DATA: Initiating transport sequence now.

[Holodeck - Prospero's island]
DATA: Graves at my command have wak'd their sleepers, op'd, and let 'em forth by my so potent art. But this rough magic I here abjure, and when I have required some heavenly music, which even now I do, to work mine end upon their senses, that this airy charm is for, I'll break my staff, bury it certain fathoms in the earth, and deeper than did ever plummet sound, I'll Captain? Sir, your attention is wandering.
PICARD: Data, I can barely see.
DATA: But sir, I am supposed to be attempting a Neo-Platonic magical rite. The darkness is appropriate for such a ritual.
PICARD: Yes, but Data, this is a play. The audience has to see you.
DATA: Perhaps I have been too literal with respect to my set design. Computer, modify holodeck program Data seven three. Shakespeare's The Tempest, Act Five, scene one. Increase torchlight by twenty percent.
PICARD: There, that's much better. Now, do you want to try it again?
DATA: Yes, sir. Captain, I am not certain I fully understand this Prospero character. I would appreciate any insight you might have that would improve my performance.
PICARD: Well, Data, Shakespeare was witnessing the end of the Renaissance and the birth of the modern era, and Prospero finds himself in a world where his powers are no longer needed. So, we see him here about to perform one final creative act before giving up his art forever.
DATA: There is certainly a tragic aspect to the character.
PICARD: Yes, but there's a certain expectancy too. A hopefulness about the future. You see, Shakespeare enjoyed mixing opposites. The past and the future. Hope and despair. Data, what is this? Is this part of your program?
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: What is going on?
DATA: It appears to be a steam locomotive.
PICARD: A train?
DATA: If I am not mistaken.
PICARD: Computer, end program.
PICARD: Computer, end program.

[Corridor]
DATA: Captain, you are injured.
PICARD: Oh yes, I know. I'll get it seen to, Data.
DATA: The train we encountered was from one of Doctor Crusher's holodeck programs. It was a re-creation of the Orient Express, a train which traveled from Paris to Istanbul from the late nineteenth century until.
PICARD: Yes, yes, Data, I know about the Orient Express. But what is it doing on Prospero's Island?
DATA: There appears to have been a malfunction in the holodeck's database retrieval program. The two programs somehow temporarily linked together.
PICARD: Is it possible that this malfunction will affect the other holodecks as well?
DATA: It is a possibility. I will need to run a diagnostic to be certain.
PICARD: Very good, Data. But shut down the other holodecks until you're finished, just to be on the safe side.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
PICARD: I never realized that you were interested in trains. Are you aware that at its peak, the Orient Express carried more than ten thousand people a year?
CRUSHER: It isn't really the train itself that I'm interested in.
PICARD: What then?
CRUSHER: It's the experience. The Orient Express is romantic, mysterious, an elegant way to see exotic places and meet fascinating people. Do you know that one time, on one trip, both Sigmund Freud and Gertrude Stein just happened to be in the same car? They ended up having dinner together every night.
PICARD: I wonder what they talked about?
CRUSHER: Why don't you take a trip yourself and find out?
RIKER: Riker to Picard.
PICARD: Picard here.
RIKER: All sections ready to begin the survey, sir.
PICARD: Very good. I'm on my way. Thank you.
CRUSHER: Don't forget the trip, Jean-Luc. Think about it. You never know who you'll meet on the Orient Express.
PICARD: Captain's log, stardate 47869.2. After weathering an unexpected magnascopic storm in the Mekorda Sector, we are continuing our search for new Federation colony sites.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I don't think there's any possibility of developing sites in this region. Most of the stars are main sequence binaries. There are no M-class planets.
PICARD: Well, let's move on to another survey region. Have stellar cartography begin a
PICARD: Mister Data, report.
DATA: The ship has moved into warp, sir.
RIKER: Who gave that command?
DATA: Apparently no one. Helm and navigation controls are not functioning. Our speed is now warp seven point three and holding.
PICARD: Picard to Engineering.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Mister La Forge, what's going on? We've lost primary helm control on the Bridge.
LAFORGE: I don't understand it. The impulse systems suddenly cut out and the warp drive just kicked in.
RIKER: Geordi, can you take the engines offline?
LAFORGE: I'm working on it.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, what's our heading?
DATA: Bearing one eight seven mark four. I am unable to determine our destination, however we are heading away from the Mekorda sector.
LAFORGE: Captain, the computer's locked out all the propulsion

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Controls. I can't access any of the overrides.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: If you want us to stop, I'll have to do an emergency core shutdown.
RIKER: That would leave us without warp power for more than a week.
PICARD: Begin the procedure, Mister La Forge.
DATA: We are no longer at warp, sir. Impulse power has resumed. All systems show normal.
RIKER: Where are we?
DATA: We are approximately thirty billion kilometers from our original position.
PICARD: Well done, Mister La Forge.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: It wasn't me. I didn't have time to complete the shut-down procedure.
PICARD: Well, I want an explanation

[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister La Forge. Picard out.
PICARD: Have you found anything yet?
LAFORGE: Only that we seem to have more than one mystery here. We still don't know why the ship jumped into warp, but it looks like we're lucky it did. There was a theta flux distortion building up around the ship.
PICARD: Why didn't our sensors alert us?
LAFORGE: Our sensors were never designed to detect theta flux distortions. And yet there is a record of the distortion in the sensor log. That's the other mystery.
DATA: One fact is clear, however. The distortion was growing in strength. If we had remained at our original position one point seven seconds longer, the distortion would have ruptured our warp core.
LAFORGE: If the Enterprise hadn't jumped into warp when it did, we would've been blown to pieces.

[Jefferies tube]
LAFORGE: I just don't get it, Data. What would cause the engines to suddenly jump into warp?
DATA: Perhaps the engines were activated by a random power fluctuation.
LAFORGE: Which occurred just in time to save the ship?
DATA: It is improbable, but it is possible.
LAFORGE: I don't know. I don't think I'm ready to start believing in luck.
DATA: There is another possibility.
LAFORGE: Yeah, what's that.
DATA: The sensors apparently detected a dangerous anomaly that threatened the Enterprise. It is possible that they triggered a safety device which caused the ship to avoid destruction.
LAFORGE: Yeah, but there's no direct link between the warp engines and the sensors.
LAFORGE: Whoa. What is that? It's some kind of new circuit node and it's connected to at least half a dozen points in the sensor array.
DATA: It appears to be connected to several other systems as well, including the warp control circuits.
LAFORGE: I guess there's a connection between the warp engines and the sensors after all.
LAFORGE: A force field. Where did that come from?
DATA: I am not certain. Perhaps it came from the node itself.
LAFORGE: Well, wherever it came from, it sure doesn't want us messing with this node.
DATA: It appears to be protecting itself.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We found these nodes in several systems around the ship. At some level or another, they're all connected.
DATA: These nodes were linking the sensors to our warp control and defensive systems. We believe this is why the ship jumped to warp.
LAFORGE: When the sensors detected danger, the defensive systems reacted to the threat and activated the warp engines to protect us.
RIKER: Where did these nodes come from?
DATA: It is possible that the magnascopic storm we recently experienced had an unexpected effect on the ship's systems.
LAFORGE: Wherever they come from, they seem to be multiplying.
DATA: As they increase, it will become progressively more difficult to control the ship.
RIKER: What do you propose we do?
LAFORGE: Well, getting rid of them isn't going to be so easy. When we attempted to examine the circuitry of one of the nodes, it generated a force field to keep us out.
RIKER: Whatever's going on. our first priority is getting back control of the ship.
DATA: Agreed. All of the nodal connections intersect in holodeck three. It appears to be a focal point of some kind.
LAFORGE: We might be able to find a way to use the holodeck circuitry to disable the nodes permanently.
RIKER: All right. Let's do it.

[Corridor]
DATA: Commander, the holodeck appears to be in operation.
RIKER: I thought you shut down the entire system.
DATA: I did, but it has reactivated itself and it will not disengage.
WORF: Which program is running?
DATA: Several different programs are running simultaneously.
RIKER: This should be interesting.

[Engineering]
PICARD: Geordi, what's going on? We just went into warp.
LAFORGE: We've lost engine and helm control again, Captain, but this time, they're completely burned out. I don't know if we can stop the ship.

[Engineering]
DATA: The number of systems now being affected by the nodes has increased considerably. Sensors, engines, replicators, propulsion, they are all working together now, almost independently of the main computer. And the nodes link them all through the holodeck.
RIKER: But why the holodeck? It doesn't make any sense.
DATA: Commander, I believe what happens on the holodeck has a direct effect on the ship. When we attempted to destroy the nodes, the characters on the train responded almost immediately to stop us.
RIKER: And when the engineer tried to protect us, one of the characters shot him.
DATA: Then the conductor then signaled for the train to change directions, and at approximately the same time
LAFORGE: The Enterprise also took off in a new direction.
RIKER: Are you saying the ship is under the control of the holodeck?
DATA: Not precisely. Geordi, does the configuration of connection nodes look familiar to you?
LAFORGE: Yeah. Yeah, it looks a little like the structure of your positronic brain.
DATA: That is correct. It would appear that the nodes are in the process of creating a rudimentary neural net.
RIKER: Data, what are you suggesting?
DATA: Unlikely as it may sound, I believe that the Enterprise may be forming an intelligence.

[Observation lounge]
DATA: This is a synaptic map of the human neo-cortex. This is a cross section of my positronic net. And this is a schematic of the connection nodes linking the ship's systems. I believe some sort of neural matrix is forming on the ship. It is still relatively primitive, but it is an intelligence nonetheless.
TROI: How could that happen?
DATA: I believe it is an emergent property.
PICARD: Explain.
DATA: Complex systems can sometimes behave in ways that are entirely unpredictable. The human brain, for example, might be described in terms of cellular functions and neurochemical interactions. But that description does not explain human consciousness, a capacity that far exceeds simple neural functions. Consciousness is an emergent property.
LAFORGE: In other words, something that's more than just the sum of its parts.
DATA: Exactly.
CRUSHER: How does that explain what's happening to the Enterprise?
DATA: The Enterprise contains a vast database of information which is managed by a sophisticated computer. This complex system gives the ship many of the characteristics of a biological organism.
RIKER: That's true. It sees with its sensors, it talks with its communications systems.
CRUSHER: In a sense, it almost reproduces with the replicators.
PICARD: And you think that the ship has somehow gone beyond those functions and is developing a new capacity?
DATA: Yes, sir. I believe a self-determining intelligence is emerging.
WORF: If that is so, what does the ship want? Where is it taking us?
DATA: I believe the key to understanding the ship's behavior lies in the holodeck. All of the connection nodes intersect at that location. It is clearly some kind of processing center.
PICARD: Processing center?
DATA: Yes, sir. A focal point where all the ideas and instincts of this emerging intelligence are first expressed in some form.
TROI: Almost like an imagination. Captain, I'd like to go to the holodeck. I could interact with the characters and maybe find some clues to help us understand what's happening.
PICARD: Very well. Mister Data, Mister Worf, I want you to go along. See if you can to re-establish control of the ship without damaging the nodes. If the ship is truly an emerging intelligence, then we have a responsibility to treat it with the same respect as any other being.

[Holodeck - subway]
TROI: Where did he go?
DATA: I can access the power grid here. I will attempt to depolarize the grid by using a low frequency inversion field. It may disengage the nodes without destroying them.
TROI: There he is. I'm going after him.

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I don't understand it, Captain. All of a sudden, cargo bay five started to depressurize.
PICARD: Did everyone get out in time?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir, and I've re-established the containment field, but I'm reading massive power surges in the cargo bay and all sorts of transporter activity. Something weird is happening there, Captain.
PICARD: I want you to send a team down there immediately. Find out what's going on.
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: La Forge to Bridge.
PICARD: Picard here. What's going on?
LAFORGE: I wish I could tell you.

[Holodeck - building site]
TROI: That man said he was laying a foundation.
WORF: Foundation for what?
TROI: Troi to Data
DATA: Data here.
TROI: How are you doing?

[Holodeck - street]
DATA: I encountered a minor difficulty, Counselor, but it has been dealt with.
DATA: I am ready to depolarize the power grid.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: It looks like the ship's replicator and transporter systems have been merged somehow. to create this. The question is, what is it? Ensign, I want to run a full spectral analysis on this.
LAFORGE: I'm picking up a massive power fluctuations. The ship is losing its structural integrity.

[Holodeck - wall]
TROI: What's happening?
WORF: It's an earthquake. (the wall collapses on top of Deanna, revealing a door with number 1156 etched in the glass.)

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: La Forge to Data

[Holodeck - street]
LAFORGE: Stop what you're doing.
DATA: Acknowledged.

[Holodeck - wall]
WORF: Are you all right?
TROI: I'm fine.

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Data, I think we ought to get together and compare notes.
DATA: Agreed.

[Sickbay]
TROI: The ship was protecting itself again. Stopping us from interfering. Whatever it's doing it intends to continue.
LAFORGE: I'm betting it all has something to do with that object that's forming in the cargo bay.
TROI: I think he's right, Captain. Look at the common themes playing out on the holodeck. A puzzle being put together, a foundation being laid, a paper doll being fashioned. They're all images of something being constructed.
LAFORGE: And some kind of object in the cargo bay that's being constructed atom by atom.
PICARD: What is that object?
LAFORGE: I have no idea. It's composed of silica polymers, duranium, and a couple of other compounds we haven't been able to identify yet. But creating it has had quite an effect on our systems. Warp power has dropped forty seven percent.
PICARD: Counselor, did you draw any other conclusions from your experiences on the holodeck? Anything that would help us to understand this situation?
TROI: The holodeck was full of metaphoric imagery like it was having some kind of daydream. It may not make literal sense, but symbolically it probably does have some kind of logic to it.
CRUSHER: The characters you spoke to, do they have any significance?
TROI: I think they represent different aspects of the ship. The Engineer, for instance, may represent the navigational system, the gunslinger could be the weapon system.
PICARD: Is there any way that we can persuade them to give back control of the ship?
TROI: I don't think it's possible to reason with them. Many of them are genuinely unaware of what's going on. It's as though this emergent intelligence is like an infant acting on impulse, trying to figure itself out as it goes. The only source of experience it can draw on is ours through our holodeck programs.
PICARD: Is there a way that we can relate to them on their own level, find some way to influence their behavior?
TROI: Maybe there is. I'd like to go back and try.
LAFORGE: Counselor, we haven't been able to re-establish the safeties.
CRUSHER: The injuries you suffered on the holodeck weren't severe, but next time they might kill you.
TROI: I'm aware of that.
PICARD: Very well, Counselor, go ahead. But bear in mind that whenever we have tried to hinder their efforts, we've failed. Perhaps it's time to cooperate with them.

[Bridge]
RIKER: I don't know how or why, sir, but warp power appears to be back to normal levels.
PICARD: What's our heading?
RIKER: We appear to be on a course for Tambor Beta six. It's a white dwarf star.

[Bridge]
RIKER: The ship is using a modified tractor beam to collect vertion particles from the star.
PICARD: Vertion particles. Vertiform City. That's what the ship was looking for.
RIKER: The particles are being routed through the transporter system into cargo bay five.
PICARD: Geordi, what's going on?
LAFORGE: The object is absorbing

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Vertion particles. It's growing even faster than before. Commander, I'm picking up internal energy this thing.

[Bridge]
RIKER: What do you mean?
LAFORGE: I mean it's generating its own energy. I'm picking up coherent emissions

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Matter conversion. It's incredible. Wait a minute. Wait a minute, something's wrong. We've got power fluctuations. Vertion absorption rate is dropping. What's happening to the particle beam?

[Bridge]
RIKER: The beam's exhausted the supply of particles in the star. There's nothing left to take out.
LAFORGE: Captain

[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: The energy output of the object is decreasing.

[Holodeck- train]
WORF: Are you all right?
TROI: Yes. What happened?
WORF: The Conductor accidently derailed the train.
DATA: Data to Captain Picard.

[Cargo bay]
PICARD: Picard here.
DATA: There has been an accident on the holodeck, sir. Has anything happened to the Enterprise?
PICARD: Yes, we've had a ship-wide shutdown. We've lost attitude control and most systems are offline.
LAFORGE: Captain, you'd better take a look at this. When the particle beam cut off, the object was beginning to form a coherent energy matrix. Now, if these readings are accurate, I'd say that the emission patterns were almost organic.
PICARD: Are you suggesting that the Enterprise is trying to create a lifeform?
LAFORGE: I think so.
PICARD: Will it survive?
LAFORGE: Well, its energy levels are dropping rapidly. Unless it gets an infusion of vertion particles, and I mean soon, I don't think so.
LAFORGE: Captain, all of our systems are back online and we're moving again, at warp nine.
PICARD: Let's get back to the Bridge.

[Bridge]
PICARD: What's our course?
RIKER: We're heading for the Cordannas system.
PICARD: Another white dwarf star.
RIKER: It's the nearest one to our last position.
LAFORGE: Captain, we have a problem. Even at warp nine, the Cordannas system is over twelve hours from here.
PICARD: Will the object in the cargo bay survive that long?
LAFORGE: Yes, sir, but that's not the problem. The ship has diverted all of our systems to maximum propulsion, including life support. We have less than two hours of reserve oxygen.
PICARD: Mister Data, we have to stop the Enterprise. That means you have to get control of the train.
DATA: Understood, sir.
PICARD: The ship is looking for vertion particles and it believes that the Cordannas system is the closest source. Is there any possibility of anything closer?
LAFORGE: White dwarf stars are the only natural sources of vertions, sir.
PICARD: Then what about artificial ones? Can you create the particles?

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I've narrowed the search to the MacPherson Nebula, which is a supernova remnant, and Dikon Alpha, which is a class nine pulsar. They're both fairly close to our current flight path and either one could produce vertion particles if we detonated a modified photon torpedo inside it.
RIKER: Vertions usually occur in miniscule amounts. Do you think either of these phenomena could produce enough of them?
LAFORGE: It's really hard to say. I can't even guarantee that we can create them at all.
PICARD: Well, we've got to give it a try. The nebula or the pulsar? It's your choice, Mister La Forge.
LAFORGE: I say go with the nebula.
PICARD: Very well. Begin the torpedo modifications.
RIKER: Now let's see if we can get this ship to go where we want.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Stand by. Are we within sensor range of the nebula?
LAFORGE: Yes, Captain, we are.
PICARD: Mister Data, I need you to slow us to impulse speed.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Are the modifications to the torpedoes complete?
LAFORGE: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Launch torpedo.
LAFORGE: It's working, Captain. The reaction is producing vertion particles.

[Cargo bay]
RIKER: The nodes are deactivating all over the ship. Our systems are beginning to function normally again.
PICARD: Then the purpose of the ship's intelligence was simply to bring this life form into being.
CRUSHER: There are some species whose sole purpose is to reproduce. Once they finally procreate, they die.
LAFORGE: Captain.

[Holodeck - train]
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. The Enterprise is back under our control. All traces of the emergent intelligence are gone and the object it created has disappeared into space.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
DATA: Captain, I am staging a scene from The Tempest this evening for a small audience. I would like for you to attend.
PICARD: I would be honored. What scene?
DATA: Miranda's first encounter with other human beings.
PICARD: O brave new world, that has such people in it.
DATA: It seemed appropriate. Captain, you took a substantial risk in allowing the Enterprise to complete its task.
PICARD: Why do you say that?
DATA: Because the end result was unknown. The object could have been dangerous. It may in fact, be dangerous.
PICARD: And I have allowed it to go off on its merry way.
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: The intelligence that was formed on the Enterprise didn't just come out of the ship's systems. It came from us. From our mission records, personal logs, holodeck programs, our fantasies. Now, if our experiences with the Enterprise have been honorable, can't we trust that the sum of those experiences will be the same?

[Bridge]
RIKER: We're receiving a distress signal from a Cardassian ship near the Demilitarized Zone.

[Corridor]
PICARD: Change course to intercept. I'm on my way. I'd like you at the conn, Lieutenant.

[Bridge]
RIKER: We picked up a request for emergency assistance from a Federation science ship in the Topin system.
PICARD: Are there any other ships in the vicinity?
RIKER: We're the closest.
PICARD: Helm, set course for the Topin system. Mister Data, will you signal the science ship that we're on our way.
DATA: It is unlikely that they would receive our communication, sir. The Topin system contains an unstable protostar. It generates significant magnetoscopic interference.
PICARD: Can we use our sensors to find them?
DATA: Most of our sensors would be ineffective, although our directional array should cut through the interference.
RIKER: That array has such a narrow scan field. We might as well break out the palm beacons and try to find them that way.

[Bridge]
RIKER: Anything?
DATA: No, sir. It will take approximately six hours to scan this system.
WORF: Captain, the distress call is being repeated.
PICARD: Data, can you locate the signal?
DATA: I am attempting to do so.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sir, I am scanning the area from which the distress signal was sent, but I am unable to detect a vessel.
WORF: Captain, the computer has detected a piggyback communication on the last distress signal.
PICARD: Can you decode it?
WORF: It will take a few moments.
PICARD: Do it.

[Bridge]
WORF: The message is difficult to decode. Interference has garbled much of the transmission, but it seems to be from Lieutenant Ro.
PICARD: Ro is on that ship?
DATA: Sir, a vessel of some kind is attempting to penetrate our aft shields.
PICARD: Let it through.

[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, a quantity of medical supplies was beamed from cargo bay seven.
DATA: The vessel that penetrated our shields is of the same design as the ships used by the Maquis. It is moving off.
PICARD: Let it go. There must be someone with her. We should make it look as though we're trying to stop them. Mister Worf, lock phasers on their previous position and fire.
WORF: Aye, sir.
RIKER: Now we know what they mean by Advanced Tactical Training.

[Bridge]
DATA: I have established a relay link with the sensor probe we left on the perimeter of the Nebula. This is the convoy. We are expecting the Maquis attack force to cross the border from the Demilitarized Zone.
PICARD: As soon as they cross the border, we'll intercept them.
WORF: Captain, in order to ensure that the ship Commander Riker and Lieutenant Ro are piloting does not come under fire, I have relayed their warp signature to the rest of the attack force.
DATA: Sir, the Maquis squadron is coming into sensor range.
PICARD: Go to Red alert.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sir, the vessel being piloted by Lieutenant Ro is firing a low intensity particle beam into the nebula.
PICARD: What the hell is she doing?
DATA: The polarizing effect being created by the beam may make it possible for us to be detected.
PICARD: Can you counter the effect?
DATA: I will attempt to do so.

[Bridge]
DATA: Sir, the Maquis ships are breaking formation.
PICARD: Have they crossed the border?
DATA: No, sir. They are withdrawing.
WORF: Captain, Lieutenant Ro's ship is not retreating with the others. It is heading toward us.
PICARD: When she comes aboard take her into custody.

[Ready room]
RIKER: She seemed very sure that she was making the right choice. I think her only real regret was that she let you down. Here's my report.

[Corridor]
TROI: That was an incredible program.
WORF: I am glad you approve. I have always found the Black Sea at night to be a most stimulating experience.
TROI: Worf, we were walking barefoot on the beach with balalaika music in the air, ocean breeze washing over us, stars in the sky, a full moon rising, and the most you can say is stimulating?
WORF: It was very stimulating.
WORF: What?
TROI: You know, I don't spend nearly enough time on the holodeck. I should take my own advice and go there to relax. Next time I'll choose the program. If you like the Black Sea, you're going to love Lake Cataria on Betazed.
WORF: Deanna, perhaps before there is a next time, we should discuss Commander Riker.
TROI: Why, is he coming along?
WORF: No, but I do not wish. I mean, it would be unfortunate if he. If you and I are going to continue, I do not wish to hurt his feelings.
TROI: Worf, I think it's all right to concentrate on our feelings, yours and mine.
PICARD: Counselor! What's today's date? The date!
WORF: Stardate 47988.
PICARD: 47988.
TROI: Captain, what's wrong?
PICARD: 47988. I'm not sure. I don't know how or why, but I'm moving back and forth through time.

[Troi's quarters]
PICARD: I had this feeling I had physically left the Enterprise. I was in another time, another place. I was somewhere in the past.
TROI: Can you describe where you were, what it looked like?
PICARD: You see, it's all slipping away so fast. It's like waking up from a nightmare. It was years ago. It was before I took command of the Enterprise. I was talking to someone, I can't remember who. And then it all changed. I was no longer in the past. I was now an old man in the future, and I was outside and I was doing something. I can't remember what it was. I'm sorry, it's all gone. I just can't remember.
TROI: It's all right. Have you considered the possibility that this was just a dream?
PICARD: No, no, it was much more than a dream. The smells, the sounds, the very touch of things, much more real than a dream.
TROI: How long did you spend in each time period? Did it seem like minutes, hours?
PICARD: You see, I can't say. At first I had a sense of confusion, disorientation. I wasn't sure where I was. And then all that passed and it all seemed perfectly natural, as though I belonged in that time. But I can't

[Future Vineyard]
LAFORGE: Captain Picard to the Bridge! Captain, we've got a problem with the warp core, or the phase inducers, or some other damn thing.
PICARD: Geordi.
LAFORGE: Hello, Captain or should I call you Ambassador?
PICARD: Oh, I haven't been called that for some time either.
LAFORGE: How about Mister Picard?
PICARD: How about Jean-Luc?
LAFORGE: I don't think I could get used to that.
PICARD: Good Lord, Geordi. Well, how long has it been?
LAFORGE: Nine years.
PICARD: No, no, no. Since you last called me Captain, since we were all together on the Enterprise?
LAFORGE: Close to twenty five years.
PICARD: Twenty five years. Well, time has been good to you.
LAFORGE: IA little too good to me in some places. Can I give you a hand here?
PICARD: Oh, well, I'm just tying up some vines.
LAFORGE: You've got leaf miners. You might want to use a bacillus spray. My wife is quite a gardener. I've picked up a little bit of it.
PICARD: How is Leah?
LAFORGE: Just wonderful. Busy as ever. She's just been made director of the Daystrom Institute.
PICARD: What about the little ones, Brett, Alandra and er?
LAFORGE: Sidney.
PICARD: Sidney.
LAFORGE: Well, they're not so little any more. Brett is applying to Starfleet Academy next year.
PICARD: So what brings you here?
LAFORGE: Oh I just thought I'd stop by. Been thinking about the old days on the Enterprise. I was in the neighborhood.
PICARD: Geordi, you don't make the trip from Rigel Three to Earth just to drop by.
LAFORGE: No.
PICARD: So, you've heard?
LAFORGE: Leah's got a few friends at Starfleet Medical. Word gets around.
PICARD: I'm not an invalid. Irumodic Syndrome can take years to run its course.
LAFORGE: I know. Once I heard, well, I just wanted to stop by just the same.
PICARD: Well now that you're here, you can help me carry those tools. Well, my cooking may not be up to Leah's standards, but I can still make a decent cup of tea. Oh, I read your last novel. I thought that the protagonist a little too flamboyant, but for the rest I
LAFORGE: Captain, are you all right? Captain!
TASHA: Captain?

[Troi's quarters]
TROI: Captain? Captain?
PICARD: Tasha. I was just with Tasha in the shuttle.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I've finished the neurographic scan. I don't see anything that might cause hallucinations or a psychogenic reaction.
TROI: Is there any indication of temporal displacement?
CRUSHER: No. Usually a temporal shift would leave some kind of triptamine residue in the cerebral cortex, but the scan didn't show any. Personally, I think you just enjoy waking everybody up in the middle of the night.
PICARD: Actually, I really like running around the ship in my bare feet.
OGAWA: The biospectral test results, Doctor.
CRUSHER: Your blood gas analysis is consistent with someone who's been breathing the ship's air for weeks. If you'd been somewhere else, there would be an indication of change in the oxygen isotope ratios. Thanks. Deanna, would you excuse us please?
TROI: Of course.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I scanned for evidence of Irumodic Syndrome, as you suggested. There wasn't any. But I did find a small structural defect in the parietal lobe.
PICARD: A defect that you hadn't noticed before?
CRUSHER: It's the kind of defect that would only show up on a level four neurographic scan. It could cause you to be susceptible to several kinds of neurological disorders including Irumodic Syndrome. Now, it's possible for you to live with this defect for the rest of your life without developing a problem. Or even if you do, many people continue to live normal lives for a long time after the onset of Irumodic Syndrome.
PICARD: If that's so, why do you look like you've just signed my death sentence?
CRUSHER: I'm sorry. I guess it caught me off guard.
PICARD: I wouldn't worry about it. Something tells me that you're going to have to put up with me for a long time to come.
CRUSHER: Well, it won't be easy, but I'll manage.
RIKER: Captain.
PICARD: Has Worf found anything?
RIKER: No, sir. His security scans came up negative. They're still checking the sensor logs but there is no indication that you ever left the ship.
PICARD: I wasn't dreaming. Something happened.
WORF: Worf to Captain.
PICARD: Go ahead, Mister Worf.
WORF: Sir, there is an incoming transmission from Admiral Nakamura. It is a priority one message.
PICARD: Beverly? Mister Worf, will you route the call through to Doctor Crusher's office.
WORF: Aye, sir.

[Future Vineyard]
LAFORGE: Captain. What's wrong?
PICARD: This is not my time. I don't belong here.
LAFORGE: What?
PICARD: I was somewhere else a few moments ago.
LAFORGE: What do you mean? You've been right here with me.
PICARD: No, no, no! I was somewhere else. I was, it was a long time ago. There was someone talking. I was talking to someone. Beverly. I was talking to Beverly.
LAFORGE: It's okay, Captain. Everything's going to be all right.
PICARD: I'm not senile, you know. This did happen. I was here, I was talking to you, and then I was somewhere else. I was on the Enterprise. I was back on the Enterprise. At least, I think that's where it was. I was in Sickbay. Well, it might have been a hospital.
LAFORGE: Captain, I think we should go back to the house and call your doctor
PICARD: Yes, yes, I know what you're thinking. It's the Irumodic Syndrome. He's beginning to lose his mind, the old man. Well, it's not that. And I'm not daydreaming either.
LAFORGE: Well, all right. All right. So, what do you want do about it?
PICARD: Data. I want to see Data.
LAFORGE: Data? Why?
PICARD: Because I think he can help.
LAFORGE: Help how?
PICARD: I don't know! I don't know! I want to see Data!
LAFORGE: Okay, then, all right, let's go see Data. He's still at Cambridge, isn't he?
PICARD: Yes, I think he is.
PICARD: You see them, don't you?
LAFORGE: See who?
PICARD: They're everywhere. They're laughing at me. Why are they laughing?
LAFORGE: Come on, Captain. Let's go see Data.
PICARD: Yes, Data. We'll go see Data.

[Past Shuttlebay]
TASHA: Commanding officer Enterprise arriving.
PICARD: To Captain Jean-Luc Picard, stardate 41148
PICARD: You are hereby requested and required to take command
PICARD: to take command of the USS Enterprise as of this date. Signed Rear Admiral Norah Satie, Starfleet Command.
PICARD: Red Alert! All crew to battle stations.
TASHA: You heard him. Move! Personal log, stardate 41153.7. Recorded under security lockout Omega three two seven. I have decided not to inform this crew of my experiences. If it's true that I've traveled to the past, I cannot risk giving them foreknowledge of what's to come.

[Past - Observation lounge]
PICARD: Report.
TASHA: We've completed a full subspace scan of the ship and surrounding space. We've detected no unusual readings or anomalies.
WORF: With all due respect, sir, it would be helpful if we knew exactly what we were looking for.
PICARD: Noted. Counselor, do you sense anything unusual on board the Enterprise? Perhaps an alien presence that doesn't belong here, maybe one operating on a level of intelligence far superior to our own?
TROI: No, sir. I'm only aware of the crew and the families on board the ship.
PICARD: Mister Worf, initiate a level two security alert on all decks until further notice.
TASHA: With all due respect, sir, I'm the Security Chief on this ship. Unless you're planning to make a change.
PICARD: No, of course not. Lieutenant, security alert two.
TASHA: Aye, sir.
O'BRIEN: Captain Picard to the Bridge, please.
PICARD: We're on our way, Chief.

[Past - Bridge]
O'BRIEN: Sir, Starfleet has just issued an alert. It appears a number of vessels are moving toward the Neutral Zone between Romulan and Federation space.
TASHA: What kind of vessels?
O'BRIEN: Freighters, transports, all civilians. None of them Starfleet ships.
PICARD: This tells me that a large spatial anomaly has appeared in the Neutral Zone, in the Devron System.
WORF: Captain, it could be a Romulan trick to lure our ships into the Neutral Zone as an excuse for a military strike.
O'BRIEN: Starfleet's canceling our mission to Farpoint Station and ordering us to the Neutral Zone as soon as we leave the Spacedock.
PICARD: No, we'll proceed to Farpoint.
TASHA: Sir?
PICARD: You heard me.
WORF: Captain, the security of the Federation could be at stake.
PICARD: Mister Worf, will you man your station.
WORF: Aye, sir.
TROI: Captain, perhaps if we understood your thinking, if you could explain
PICARD: I've no intention of explaining to anyone. We will proceed with our mission to Farpoint as planned. Chief O'Brien, am I right in thinking that you're having a problem with the warp plasma inducers.
O'BRIEN: That's right, sir.
PICARD: Well I know how to get them back online. You're with me. We'll be in main Engineering.

[Doctor's office]
PICARD: It happened again.
CRUSHER: A time shift?
PICARD: Yes.
RIKER: What happened?
PICARD: It's still a little vague, but I can remember more this time. It seems that every time I shift periods, I can retain more memory. At first, it appeared that I was in the future, years from now, and then I was in the past just before our first mission.
RIKER: What is it?
CRUSHER: I just scanned his temporal lobe and compared it to the scan I performed just a few minutes before. There's a thirteen percent increase in the acetylcholine of the hippocampus. Within a matter of minutes, you have accumulated over two days worth of memories.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Counselor, do you remember when I first came on board the Enterprise?
TROI: Yes.
PICARD: What happened after the welcoming ceremony?
TROI: There was a reception in Ten Forward. I introduced you to Worf and the other senior officers.
PICARD: Do you have any memory of my calling Red Alert in Spacedock? Do you remember Starfleet diverting us from Farpoint to the Neutral Zone to investigate a spatial anomaly?
TROI: No.
DATA: It would appear there is a discontinuity between the time periods you described. Events in one time period would seem to have no effect on the other two.
RIKER: And yet in both the past and the present there's a report of the same anomaly in the Devron System. I find it hard to believe that that's a coincidence.
PICARD: For all I know, I may find the same thing in the future.
LAFORGE: Perhaps the anomaly is a temporal disturbance of some kind.
CRUSHER: How is all this related to your time shifting?
PICARD: These are all very important questions, and perhaps I will find answers to them in the past, but now we have a potentially dangerous threat from the Romulans. I want all departments to present a battle readiness report to me at oh eight hundred hours tomorrow morning. Dismissed.
RIKER: Deanna, it's going to be a late night. Would you like to have some dinner first?
TROI: Actually I, we have plans.
RIKER: Oh. I see. I'm sorry. I'll see you in the morning.
WORF: Goodnight, sir.
RIKER: Worf.

[Bridge]
PICARD: I want continuous subspace sweeps. We may be able to detect a temporal disturbance.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Will, this time shifting. When it happens I experience a momentary disorientation. If that should happen during a crisis, I want you to take command immediately. Number One?
RIKER: I'm sorry. Be prepared to take command. Aye, sir.
PICARD: Speaking of disorientation, are you all right?
RIKER: I'm just a little distracted. I'm fine.
PICARD: You have the Bridge, Number One. I'll be in my Ready room.

[Ready room]
PICARD: Come.
CRUSHER: Milk, warm, a dash of nutmeg.
PICARD: What's this?
CRUSHER: A prescription. A glass of warm milk and eight hours uninterrupted sleep.
PICARD: Beverly.
CRUSHER: Doctor's orders. You're exhausted. Look, I don't know whether you've slept in the past or in the future, but I'm sure you haven't slept in the present. Now get some rest, or I'll have you relieved and sedated.
PICARD: Yes, sir. What? Hey, Beverly?
CRUSHER: As a physician, it's often my job to give people unpleasant news. To tell them that they need surgery or that they can't have children or that they might be facing a difficult illness.
PICARD: But you said yourself that this is only a possibility.
CRUSHER: But you've been to the future. You know it's going to happen.
PICARD: I prefer to look on the future as something which is not written in stone. A lot of things can happen in twenty five years.
CRUSHER: A lot of things can happen.
LAFORGE: Captain?

[Future - Data's library]
LAFORGE: Captain, wake up.
PICARD: Yes. What is it? Have we reached the Neutral Zone?
LAFORGE: The Neutral Zone?
PICARD: Sorry. I was in the past again. What's going on?
LAFORGE: Data's arranged for us to run those tests on you in the biometrics lab. We're ready to go if you are.
PICARD: No, no, no. No, we have to get to the Neutral Zone.
LAFORGE: The Neutral Zone? Why?
PICARD: In the other two time periods, Starfleet reported a sort of a spatial anomaly in, in, in the Devron system. In Devron system in the Neutral Zone.
LAFORGE: Captain.
PICARD: If the anomaly appeared there in the past, then it might be here too and we have to find out.
LAFORGE: Just because you've seen it in two other time frames, doesn't mean that it's going to be here.
PICARD: But if it is here, then it means something. Damn it, Geordi, I know what we have to do!
LAFORGE: All right. Okay. But first, there is no Neutral Zone, remember?
PICARD: Right. Right. Klingons. In this time period, the Klingons have taken over the Romulan Empire.
LAFORGE: Right now relations between us and the Klingons aren't too cozy.
PICARD: I know that. I haven't completely lost my mind, you know.
LAFORGE: Well, if we're going to the Devron system, we're going to need a ship.
PICARD: Right. Now, I think it's time to call in some old favors. Contact Admiral Riker, Starbase two four seven.
RIKER: Jean-Luc, you know I'd like to help, but frankly, what you're asking for is impossible. The Klingons have closed their borders to all Federation starships.
PICARD: Will, if this spatial anomaly really is in the Devron System.
RIKER: I saw a report from Starfleet Intelligence this morning on that sector. There is no activity. There is nothing unusual going on in the Devron system.
PICARD: Well I don't believe it! What if their long range scanners are faulty? We have to go there and see for ourselves.
RIKER: Look, I've got the Yorktown out near the border. I'll have her run some long range scans in the Devron System. If she finds out anything, I'll let you know.
PICARD: Will, that is just not good enough.
RIKER: It's going to have to be. I'm sorry. It's all I can do. Riker out.
DATA: Computer, restore holographic image.
PICARD: Damn him, anyway. After all we've been through together. He's been sitting behind that desk too long.
LAFORGE: Captain, I'm sorry. I guess all we can do now is wait and see if the Yorktown finds anything.
DATA: There is another option. We could arrange passage aboard a medical ship.
PICARD: Medical ship?
DATA: Yes, sir. There was an outbreak of Terrellian plague on Romulus. The Klingons have been allowing Federation medical ships to cross the border.
PICARD: Yes. Yes!
LAFORGE: So, What we need is a medical ship.
PICARD: I think I can arrange that. Data, find the USS Pasteur. I have some pull with the Captain. At least, I used to have.

[Future - Pasteur turbolift]
PICARD: We'll find the anomaly. I know we will.

[Past - Bridge]
PICARD: Report.
O'BRIEN: We're nearing the coordinates you gave me, sir.
PICARD: Is there anything unusual in the vicinity, Mister Data?
DATA: How would you define unusual, sir? Every region of space has its own unique properties that cannot be found anywhere else.
PICARD: There should be a barrier of some sort nearby. A large plasma field, highly disruptive.
DATA: Nothing, sir.
PICARD: This is the right time, the right place. He should be here now.
O'BRIEN: Who, sir?
PICARD: Q! We're here! This has gone on long enough! Counselor, do you sense an alien presence?
TROI: No, sir.
WORF: What is a Q?
TASHA: It's a letter of the alphabet, as far as I know.
PICARD: I don't understand. This is not the way it's supposed to happen. Maintain this position. I'll be in my Ready room.

[Courtroom]
Q: Mon capitane. I thought you'd never get here.
PICARD: Q. I knew it. What's going on?
Q: It's Judge Q to you. And isn't it obvious what's going on?
PICARD: The last time that I stood here was seven years ago.
Q: Seven years ago. How little do you mortals understand time. Must you be so linear, Jean-Luc?
PICARD: You accused me of being the representative of a barbarous species.
Q: I believe my exact words were a dangerous, savage, child race.
PICARD: We demonstrated to you that mankind had become peaceful and benevolent. You agreed and you let us go on our way. Now why am I standing here again?
Q: Oh, you'd like me to connect the dots for you, lead you from A to B to C so your puny mind can comprehend. How boring. They'd be so much more entertained if you tried to figure it out. I'll answer any ten questions that call for a yes or a no. Well?
PICARD: Are you putting mankind on trial again?
Q: No.
PICARD: Is there any connection between the trial seven years ago and whatever's going on now?
Q: I'd have to say yes.
PICARD: The spatial anomaly in the Neutral Zone, is it related to what's happening?
Q: Most definitely yes.
PICARD: Is it part of a Romulan plot, a ploy to start a war?
Q: No and no. Five down.
PICARD: That's only four.
Q: Is it a Romulan plot? Is it a ploy to start a war? Those are separate questions.
PICARD: Did you create the anomaly?
Q: No, no, no. You're going to be so surprised when you realize where it came from, if you ever figure it out.
PICARD: Are you responsible for my shifting through time?
Q: I'll answer that question if you promise you won't tell anyone. Yes.
PICARD: Why?
Q: Sorry. That's not a yes or no question. You forfeit the rest of your questions. I expected as much. You're such a limited creature. A perfect example of why we made our decision. The trial never ended, Captain. We never reached a verdict. But now we have. You're guilty.
PICARD: Guilty of what?
Q: Of being inferior. Seven years ago I said we'd be watching you, and we have been, hoping that your ape-like race would demonstrate some growth, give some indication that your minds have room for expansion. But what have we seen instead? You worrying about Commander Riker's career, listening to Counselor Troi's pedantic psychobabble, indulging Data in his witless exploration of humanity.
PICARD: We've journeyed to countless new worlds, we've contacted new species, we have expanded our understanding of the universe.
Q: In your own paltry, limited way. You have no idea how far you still have to go. But instead of using the last seven years to change and to grow, you have squandered them.
PICARD: We are what we are, and we're doing the best we can. It is not for you to set the standards by which we should be judged.
Q: Oh, but it is, and we have. Time may be eternal, Captain, but our patience is not. It's time to put an end to your trek through the stars, make room for other more worthy species.
PICARD: You're going to deny us travel through space?
Q: You obtuse piece of flotsam. You are to be denied existence. Humanity's fate has been sealed. You will be destroyed.
PICARD: Q, I do not believe that even you are capable of such an act.
Q: I? There you go again, always blaming me for everything. Well this time I'm not your enemy. I'm not the one that causes the annihilation of mankind. You are.
PICARD: Me?
Q: That's right. You're doing it right now. You did it before and you'll do it again.
PICARD: What sort of meaningless doubletalk is this?
Q: He doesn't understand. I have only myself to blame, I suppose. I believed in you. I thought you had potential. But apparently I was wrong. May whatever god you believe in have mercy on your soul. This court stands adjourned.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Commander, assemble the senior staff and go to Red alert. We have a bigger problem than I thought.
RIKER: Red alert!

[Bridge]
PICARD: All stop. Initiate long range scans.
DATA: Captain, there are four warbirds holding position on the Romulan side of the Neutral Zone.
WORF: The Federation Starships Concord and Bozeman are holding position on our side.
RIKER: A face off. The question is, who's going to move first?
PICARD: We are. Mister Worf, hail the Romulan flagship.
WORF: The warbird Terix is responding.
PICARD: On screen.
WORF: Captain Picard.

[Past - Bridge]
O'BRIEN: Engage to where, sir?
PICARD: Set a course for the Devron system, and engage at warp nine.
TASHA: The Devron System is inside the Neutral Zone, sir.
PICARD: I'm aware of that, Lieutenant. Carry out my orders, Chief.
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir.
TROI: Captain, may I have a word with you in private?
PICARD: Yes of course, Counselor. Contact Farpoint Station. I wish to speak with Commander Riker.
TASHA: Aye, sir.

[Past - Bridge]
DATA: We are approaching the Devron system, Captain. Sensors are picking up a large subspace anomaly directly ahead.
PICARD: All stop. On screen. Then it is larger in the past.
TROI: Sir?
PICARD: Nothing. Full scan, Mister Data.
DATA: Aye, sir.

[Future - USS Pasteur Ready room]
PICARD: Beverly, I cannot believe that you are not willing to stay here until we
CRUSHER: Don't you ever question my orders on the Bridge of my ship again!
PICARD: Damn it, I was just trying to. Look, there are larger concerns here. What you don't understand is that
CRUSHER: I understand that you would never have tolerated that kind of behavior back on the Enterprise and I won't here. I don't care if you're my ex-Captain or my ex-husband.
PICARD: You're right. I was out of line. It won't happen again. But what you have to understand is what is at stake here. Q has said that all of humanity will be destroyed.
CRUSHER: I know. That's why I've allowed us to stay here longer and keep looking. But I also want you to allow for the possibility that none of what you're saying is real.
PICARD: What?
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, I care for you too much not to tell you the truth. You have advanced Irumodic Syndrome. It's possible that all of this is in your mind. I'll stay here six hours longer and then we're heading home. I want you to remember, if it were anyone but you, we wouldn't even be here.
Q: Eh? What was that she said, sonny? I couldn't quite hear her.
PICARD: Q? What is going on here? Where is the anomaly?
Q: Where's your mommy? Well, I don't know.
PICARD: Answer me.
Q: There is an answer, Jean-Luc, but I can't hand it to you. Although you do have help.
PICARD: What help?
Q: You're not alone, you know. What you were and what you are to become will always with you.
PICARD: My time shifting. The answer does lie there, doesn't it. Now, tell me one thing. This anomaly we're looking for, will that destroy humanity?
Q: You're forgetting, Jean-Luc. You destroy humanity.
PICARD: By doing what? When? How can

[Bridge]
PICARD: Report, Mister Data.
DATA: The anomaly is two hundred million kilometers in diameter. It is a highly focused temporal energy source which is emitting approximately the same energy output as ten G type stars.
PICARD: What is the source of this energy?
DATA: I am uncertain, sir. Sensors are unable to penetrate the anomaly.
PICARD: What if we modified the main deflector to emit an inverse tachyon pulse. That might be able to scan beyond the subspace barrier. That might give us some idea of what the interior of this thing looks like.
DATA: That is a most intriguing idea, sir. I do not believe a tachyon beam was ever used in such a way. I had no idea you were so versed in the intricacies of temporal theory, sir.
PICARD: I have some friends who are quite well versed in it. Make it so.
DATA: I believe we can make the necessary modifications in main Engineering, sir.

[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We can get more power if we reroute the primary EPS taps to the deflector array.
DATA: Agreed. Initiating tachyon pulse.
LAFORGE: Okay. the pulse is holding steady. We're starting to receive data from the scan.
DATA: It will take the computer some time to give us a complete picture of the anomaly's interior. I suggest we
DATA: Geordi? What is wrong?
LAFORGE: I don't know. It's like somebody's sticking an ice pick in my temples. My visor's picking up all kinds of electromagnetic fluctuations.
DATA: Data to Sickbay. Medical emergency in main Engineering.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: This is amazing. The DNA in his optic nerves is regenerating. Geordi, it's as if you're growing new eyes.
PICARD: How is this possible?
CRUSHER: It shouldn't be possible at all. There's no medical explanation for spontaneous regeneration of an organ.
OGAWA: Doctor we've just gotten reports from two crewmembers who say they have old scars which are healing themselves.
DATA: Captain, I believe I have a partial explanation. I have completed my analysis of the anomaly. It appears to be a multi-phasic temporal convergence in the space-time continuum.
CRUSHER: In English, Data.
DATA: It is, in essence, an eruption of anti-time.
PICARD: Anti-time?
DATA: A relatively new concept in temporal mechanics. The relationship between anti-time and normal time is analogous to the relationship between antimatter and normal matter.
PICARD: So if time and anti-time were to collide
DATA: They would annihilate one other, causing a rupture in space. I believe this is what happened in the Devron system. The rupture may be sending out waves of temporal energy which are disrupting the normal flow of time.
PICARD: Data, what could have caused this collision of time and anti-time?

[Past - Bridge]
DATA: Anti-time, sir?
PICARD: I believe that if you modify the deflectors to send out an inverse tachyon pulse, then you'll find that the anomaly is a rupture between time and anti-time.
DATA: That is a fascinating hypothesis. How did you formulate
PICARD: I don't have time to discuss it now, Mister Data. Do the modifications and send out the pulse. Then try working on a theory as to what caused this rupture. Mister O'Brien, how large is this anomaly?
O'BRIEN: Approximately four hundred million kilometers in diameter, sir.
PICARD: I don't understand why it's bigger in the past.
PICARD: Lieutenant, you have the Bridge. I'll be in my Ready room.
TASHA: Aye, sir.

[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Your visual acuity's improving by the hour, Geordi.
CRUSHER: I'm sorry, Alyssa. May I take another look? You'll have a little tenderness for a few days. That's to be expected.
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc. I'll be right back, Alyssa.
CRUSHER: Alyssa lost the baby. I think it's the same phenomenon that affected Geordi. Somehow, the temporal energy from the anomaly caused the fetal tissue to revert to an earlier stage of development. It's as if the unborn child began to grow younger, until finally the DNA itself began to break down.
PICARD: How is she?
CRUSHER: Physically, she's fine for now. But if this temporal reversion continues, I don't think any of us are going to be fine for much longer.
PICARD: So this is affecting the entire crew.
CRUSHER: Our cellular structures appear to be coalescing, reverting to earlier forms. In some cases, this has caused old injuries to be healed, but the effect is only temporary. Eventually, may kill all of us.

[Observation lounge]
PICARD: We have to find out how widespread this effect is. Contact Starbase Twenty three, that's the nearest outpost. Have them check their personnel to see if there are any signs of temporal reversion.
TROI: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Mister Data, how close are you to completing the tachyon scan?
DATA: Approximately one hour forty five minutes, sir.
PICARD: Good. When it's done I want you to find some way of collapsing this anomaly without making things worse. Give me a risk analysis of whatever solution you come up with.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Dismissed.
Q: It's a pretty big decision, Jean-Luc. Tinkering with an anomaly you know nothing about, trying to collapse it. Isn't that risky?
PICARD: Why? Will that cause the destruction of mankind?
Q: Maybe. On the other hand, maybe leaving it alone would be the wrong thing to do. It's a pretty big decision, all right. Would it help to have a different perspective?

[Primordial Earth]
Q: Welcome home.
PICARD: Home?
Q: Don't you recognize your old stomping grounds? This is Earth, France, about, oh, three and a half billion years ago, give or take an eon or two. Smells awful, doesn't it? All that sulfur and volcanic ash. I really must speak to the maid.
PICARD: Q, is there any point to all this?
Q: Look.
PICARD: So the anomaly is here too, at Earth.
Q: At this point in history the anomaly fills your entire quadrant of the galaxy.
PICARD: The further back in time, the larger the anomaly.
Q: Come here. There's something I want to show you. You see this?
Q: This is you. I'm serious. Right here, life is about to form on this planet for the very first time. A group of amino acids are about to combine and form the first protein, the building blocks of what you call life. Strange, isn't it? Everything you know, your entire civilization, it all begins right here in this little pond of goo. Appropriate, somehow, isn't it? Too bad you didn't bring your microscope. It's really quite fascinating. Oh, look, there they go. The amino acids are moving closer and closer, and closer. Oh! Nothing happened. See what you've done?
PICARD: Are you saying that I caused the anomaly, and that the anomaly somehow disrupted the beginnings of life on Earth?
Q: Congratulations.

[Past - Engineering]
PICARD: Let's concentrate on how this anomaly was initially formed. Speculation?
DATA: Our tachyon pulse has been unable to completely penetrate the anomaly. If we had information on the center of the phenomenon, we might have a basis for speculation.
PICARD: Is there any way that we can scan the interior?
O'BRIEN: I've tried everything I know. There's just too much interference. There's nothing on board that'll do the job.
PICARD: Do you know what could?
DATA: In theory, a tomographic imaging scanner capable of multiphasic resolution would be able to penetrate this much interference. The Daystrom Institute has been working on such a device, but it is still only theoretical.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data do we have a tomographic imaging scanner on board?
DATA: Yes, sir.
PICARD: Can you use it to scan the interior of the anomaly?
DATA: Possibly. There is a great deal of interference, but I am getting some readings. This is very unusual.
PICARD: What is it?
DATA: It appears that our tachyon pulse is converging with two other tachyon pulses at the center of the anomaly. The other two pulses have the exact same amplitude modulation as our own pulse. It is as if all three originated from the Enterprise.
PICARD: Three pulses, from three time periods, converging at one point in space.
DATA: Captain, what are you suggesting?

[Future - Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: The ship has held up pretty well over the years.
RIKER: They tried to decommission her about five years ago. One of the advantages of being an Admiral is you get to choose your own ship.
CRUSHER: Will, how long is this thing between you and Worf going to go on?
RIKER: It's been going on for over twenty years. Doesn't look like it's going to end any time soon.
DATA: I suspect the last thing Counselor Troi would have wanted is for the two of you to be alienated.
CRUSHER: I agree. I think it's time to put it behind you.
RIKER: I tried at Deanna's funeral. He wouldn't even talk to me.
LAFORGE: Might have been tough for him then. He took her death pretty hard.
RIKER: Oh, yeah? Well he wasn't the only one.
CRUSHER: I know, but I think in his mind you were the reason that he and Deanna never got together.
RIKER: I never did anything to stand in his way.
CRUSHER: Didn't you, Will?
RIKER: Did I? I didn't want to admit that it was over. I always thought that we'd get together again. And then she was gone. You think you have all the time in the world, until. Yeah.

[Bridge]
PICARD: Data, disengage the tachyon pulse.
DATA: Sir?
PICARD: Do it. The convergence of the tachyon pulses from the three time periods is what is causing the anomaly.
DATA: Aye, sir.
PICARD: Is there any change in the anomaly?

[Past - Bridge]
DATA: No, sir.
PICARD: Disengage the tachyon pulse.
O'BRIEN: but e haven't finished the scan, sir.
PICARD: I know that. But it is imperative that you disengage the tachyon pulse immediately.
DATA: Aye, sir. Disengaging.
PICARD: Why isn't the anomaly being affected?
O'BRIEN: Why would it be, sir?

[Future - Bridge]
PICARD: I've shut off the tachyon pulses in the other time periods but it hasn't changed the anomaly.
DATA: It remains unaffected here as well, sir.
CRUSHER: What do we do?
LAFORGE: The only way to stop this thing's to repair the rupture at the focal point where time and anti-time are converging.
RIKER: How do we do that?
DATA: It would require taking the ship into the anomaly itself. Once inside, we may be able to use the engines to create a static warp shell.
LAFORGE: Yeah, Data, that's right. And the shell would act as an artificial subspace barrier separating time and anti-time.
DATA: Collapsing the anomaly and restoring the normal flow of time. But this would have to be done in the other two time periods as well.
PICARD: That could be a problem. The anomaly's so much larger in the other two time periods

[Past - Bridge]
PICARD: It may be dangerous to take the ship in.
O'BRIEN: Take the ship in where, sir?
PICARD: Into the anomaly, Chief. Lay in a course for the exact center and transfer all available power to the shields.
TASHA: Sir? Can you give us some explanation?
PICARD: No, Lieutenant, I cannot.
TASHA: Captain, so far we've obeyed every order, no matter how far fetched it might have seemed. But if we're to risk the safety of the ship and crew I think we have to ask you for an explanation.
PICARD: I understand your concerns, Lieutenant, and I know if I were in your position I would be doing the same thing. Looking for answers. But you're not going to find any because I don't have any to give you. I know it is difficult for you to understand, but we have to take the ship into the very center of the phenomenon and create a static warp shell. Now, this will put the ship at risk. Quite frankly, we may not survive. But I want you to believe that I am doing this for a greater purpose, and that what is at stake here is more than any of you can possibly imagine. I know you have your doubts about me, about each other, about the ship. All I can say is that although we have only been together for a short time, I know that you are the finest crew in the fleet and I would trust each of you with my life. So, I am asking you for a leap of faith, and to trust me.
TASHA: Shields up, maximum strength.
WORF: Boosting field integrity to the warp nacelles. We may encounter shearing forces once we enter the anomaly.
DATA: I am preparing to initiate a static warp shell.
O'BRIEN: Course laid in, sir.
TROI: All decks report ready, sir.
PICARD: Take us in, Chief.

[Future - Bridge]
PICARD: The other two Enterprises, they're on their way.
RIKER: Very well. Ensign, take us in.

[Past - Bridge]
O'BRIEN: We're entering the anomaly, sir.
PICARD: All hands, brace for impact!
TASHA: The temporal energy's interfering with main power. Switching to

[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Auxiliary power. I'm having trouble keeping the impulse engines online. I've got power fluctuations all across the board.
PICARD: Maintain course and speed. Mister Data, how long until we reach the center?
DATA: At least thirty seconds, sir.

[Past - Bridge]
DATA: We have reached the center, sir.
PICARD: Initiate warp shell!

[Bridge]
DATA: Initiating static warp shell now.

[Future - Bridge]
RIKER: Is it having any effect?

[Past - Bridge]
DATA: Something is happening. A new subspace barrier appears to be forming,
TASHA: Captain, the sensors are picking up two other ships.

[Past - Bridge]
DATA: Captain, it appears to be working. The anomaly is beginning to collapse. I think that
TASHA: Temporal energy is rupturing our warp containment system!
WORF: We must eject the core!
PICARD: No, we have to maintain the static warp shell as long as possible!
TASHA: We're losing containment, Captain! I can't stop it, it's going to

[Bridge]
PICARD: Transfer emergency power to the antimatter containment system!
LAFORGE: I'm trying, but there's a lot of interference.
DATA: The warp shell is definitely having an effect, sir. The anomaly is collapsing.
LAFORGE: I can't hold it. The containment system is going.
PICARD: Maintain position! Mister La

[Future - Bridge]
DATA: Both of the other ships have been destroyed.
Q: Two down, one to go.
PICARD: Data, report!
DATA: The anomaly is nearly collapsed.
LAFORGE: We're losing containment.
Q: Goodbye, Jean-Luc. I'm going to miss you. You had such potential. But then again, all good things must come to an end.
LAFORGE: Containment field is at critical. I'm losing it!

[Courtroom]
Q: The Continuum didn't think you had it in you, Jean-Luc, but I knew you did.
PICARD: Are you saying that it worked? We collapsed the anomaly?
Q: Is that all this meant to you? Just another spatial anomaly? Just another day at the office?
PICARD: Did it work?
Q: Well, you're here, aren't you? You're talking to me, aren't you?
PICARD: What about my crew?
Q: The anomaly. My crew. My ship. I suppose you're worried about your fish, too. Well, if it puts your mind at ease, you've saved humanity once again.
PICARD: Thank you.
Q: For what?
PICARD: You had a hand in helping me get out of this.
Q: I was the one that got you into it. A directive from the Continuum. The part about the helping hand, thought, was my idea.
PICARD: I sincerely hope that this is the last time that I find myself here.
Q: You just don't get it, do you, Jean-Luc? The trial never ends. We wanted to see if you had the ability to expand your mind and your horizons. And for one brief moment, you did.
PICARD: When I realized the paradox.
Q: Exactly. For that one fraction of a second, you were open to options you had never considered. That is the exploration that awaits you. Not mapping stars and studying nebulae, but charting the unknowable possibilities of existence.
PICARD: Q, what is it that you're trying to tell me?
Q: You'll find out. In any case, I'll be watching. And if you're very lucky, I'll drop by to say hello from time to time. See you out there.

[Corridor]
TROI: Captain, are you all right?
PICARD: Mister Worf, what's the date?
WORF: Stardate 47988.
TROI: Is something wrong, sir?
PICARD: No. No. No. I think I'll get back to bed. I could use some sleep.
PICARD: Captain's log, supplemental. Starfleet Command reports no unusual activity along the Neutral Zone, and there is no sign of a temporal anomaly. It would appear that I am the only member of the crew to retain any knowledge of the events I experienced.

[Riker's quarters]
CRUSHER: Take it.
RIKER: Any time, Doctor.
LAFORGE: Four hands in a row. How does he do it?
RIKER: I cheat. I'm kidding.
CRUSHER: You know, I was thinking about what the Captain told us about the future. About how we all changed and drifted apart. Why would he want to tell us what's to come?
LAFORGE: Sure goes against everything we've heard about not polluting the time line, doesn't it.
DATA: I believe, however, this situation is unique. Since the anomaly did not occur, there have already been changes in the way this time line is unfolding. The future we experience will undoubtedly be different from the one the Captain encountered.
RIKER: Maybe that's why he told us. Knowing what happens in that future allows us to change things now, so that some things never happen.
WORF: Agreed.
RIKER: Come in.
TROI: Am I too late?
RIKER: Of course not. Pull up a chair.
TROI: What's the game?
DATA: Five card draw, deuces wild.
RIKER: Come.
RIKER: Is there a problem, sir?
PICARD: No. I, er, I just thought that I might, erm, I might join you this evening. If there's room.
RIKER: Of course. Have a seat.
DATA: Would you care to deal, sir?
PICARD: Oh, er, thank you, Mister Data. Actually, I used to be quite a card player in my youth, you know. I should have done this a long time ago.
TROI: You were always welcome.
PICARD: So. Five card stud, nothing wild, and the sky's the limit.

